ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of Members of the People's Parliaments, I would like you to place your identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that there are currently 100 MPs present, and there are conditions for working in the session session on Tuesdays and Thursdays, because on Tuesdays and Thursdays following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further session debate on the basis of Article 286(2). Rules of Procedure: The National MP shall have the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the Chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he shall need to exercise the functions of the MP, except at the meeting of the National Assembly. Exceptionally, the President, or the authorised representative of the Parliament Group, may also be held at the meeting of the National Assembly, orally in one address, for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs participating in the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to use their rights? The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64411	I would like to ask the question about the misapplications to agricultural producers arriving after six months of the protest drive, and I would like to refer the issue primarily to Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dusan Petrovic and Justice Minister Ms. Snezani Malovic. At first, I would like to point out that SVM MPs are above all advocating respect for the law and we believe that the laws we adopt must be respected and respected. However, in some cases when there is an agreement between the two parties, this agreement should be respected. After a protest drive to the agricultural producers, it was promised that it would not be conducted against them. This was promised by the personal agriculture minister Dusan Petrovic. As I could promise, it is unknown to me, but it is still a fact that six months ago an agreement was reached between representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia and between agricultural producers, after which agricultural producers suspended the protest. A reminder for farmers was not allowed to reach Belgrade and protest peacefully. For example, in Bulgaria, Sofia, we were allowed to do so, and we could read about it recently in the press. In our country, the police stopped the agricultural producers themselves and did not allow them to continue to Belgrade and with agricultural producers stopped by police to report. I can understand farmers being dissatisfied because they were filed against because of the spring blockade, which was actually caused by the police themselves. Unfortunately, the minister in charge now points them to different addresses, from those in Germany and to local self-government and courts. I believe that, after these events, an urgent response should be made by the Minister of Agriculture who is to negotiate with farmers and to solve this problem as soon as possible. The leaders and associations of farmers who participated in the protest claim that it was then agreed not to take criminal, criminal measures against the protesters. The question is, then, whether any agricultural producer involved in the protest can count on criminal charges in the future. I'm interested in whether raspberries who have also had a narrow ride in various municipalities around Serbia can count for about four or five months on these applications. I'm interested in whether an agricultural producer has received such an application south of Belgrade or whether they are applying for a drive-by only in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I have another question about the 2012 agricultural subsidies and I would like to refer it to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dusan Petrovic. I asked this question two weeks ago, but unfortunately within the time limit foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, none of the authorities answered. I wonder if any registered agricultural producer can count on the subsidies per hectare in 2012 and how much the subsidy per hectare will be. I wonder if next year the state will give subsidies per hectare to agricultural producers. And this time I urge Mr Dusan Petrovic to answer these questions as quickly as possible and to hold a session of the Agriculture Committee as soon as possible and to present to us the plans of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64412	National MP Slobodan Samardzic and MP Nikola Novakovic were reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64413	The honourable MPs, respected Madam Chairman, said yesterday and the day before, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, that if the EU wants to guarantee Kosovo's territorial integrity and if it wants to force Serbia to give up Resolution 1244 when it comes to Kosovo's status at regional international meetings and if so, it is best that Serbia recognises Kosovo in order to, as he says, stop this wrinkling. In other words, the deputy prime minister said the EU is asking Serbia to recognise Kosovo. It's a good thing he said that, even though his words could easily be said – Good morning, Columbus. It's something everyone's known a long time ago, just playing one game of mimery. There is a policy of microcry, which has become intolerable for individual members of the government. They speak openly about what is actually happening behind the scenes of this negotiating process. Last night, Katherine Ashton and Stefan Phil reacted, and they said it was basically not true. Namely, their role in the EU is to make that microcry that we are talking about, but it is not for the incompetent and unauthorized person of the EU, such as Catherine Ashton and Stefan File, but for those who decide on it. So, German representatives, the highest state, French and British, who decide to make it clear, and this is what the press has repeatedly conveyed, that Serbia is asked for Kosovo's recognition in order to gain candidacy. Since the deadline is somewhere in February, this year, it is obvious that it will become a very lively activity of the government and the president of the Republic who runs these affairs in this regard. What the Assembly is about to demand is the public work in this matter. If it has not been present for the past three and a half years, if this policy has been conducted in secret and hidden from the eyes of the public, then at least these two months should be managed in one appropriate way, in a democratic way, for the Assembly to participate. About that, I'd like to ask one question and one request to the government. The question is, when and will the government give MPs a negotiating platform? For more than half a year, there has been negotiations on KIM and the fate of the Serbian province, and we still do not have a negotiating platform. We had an understanding of the fact that this platform at the time of preparation couldn't go public and it's somewhere quite normal. Then, the negotiations lasted several months and were brought to an end. We don't know what the platform is yet. The platform is needed to compare what it says with the results of these conversations. The results so far have been defeated for Serbia as a state. Kosovo has been brought in for recognition. This was brought almost to the end, and the clearest agreement on borders. There was an agreement on the demarcation of Serbia and Kosovo and on the use of so-called Kosovo. integrated border management, a concept that applies to neighbouring countries that have a common border in Europe. Serbia has already admitted that. There are still a few demands ahead of Serbia. So we have something to discuss as a state, as a public, as a parliament, as political participants, and therefore we ask that this platform be given to us for insight. The second thing I would like to ask through the possibility of questions is from the President of the Assembly – to schedule a session of the KIM Assembly. This failed for several months not because there were some technical reasons or because most had no majority, but because the aim of this policy was to lead it in a mysterious way, hidden from the public's eyes, to give each other in trade, to give Kosovo for the candidacy, and to finally create a major pre-election campaign. That is why Kosovo is not being talked about and therefore the public of work is now the most important role of this parliament. That's why I'm looking for these two things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64414	Since more MPs, authorised representatives and presidents have applied, the word will first be Jovan Damjanovic, then Zoran Ostojic, and then Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64415	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, respected chairman, at the end of the calendar year and a beautiful news about the Roma community, which was awarded the opening of recycling centres in Serbia. We have the International Decade, we have a strategy on the Roma community that has been accepted in the government of Serbia and here, finally, the state and certain ministries have done what is very important – eradication of poverty in the Roma community and integration into society. I would like to inform the National Assembly and thank our country Serbia in particular, and in particular Minister Dulic, the Environment Fund, Zeljko Jurekic, as well as Mayor Simonovic, President of the Assembly of Nis Milet Ilic, Banet Jovanovic, Director of the Building Institute. If society in our country hadn't wanted to, it couldn't have been done like this. This is the first time the Roma community has received a very significant project, where people will be hired, involved in work, eradication of poverty, integrate into society. Roma are also cleaners, collectors of secondary raw materials in Serbia, but they do so in one gray zone, and now they enter current state flows and legal frameworks. They will now have social, pension, have IDs, solutions, their salaries, transport vehicles and will work precisely in all those areas where they have worked so far, but will now be within the legal frameworks. In 2012, Roma will no longer go out to collect secondary raw materials unless they are registered collectors, have no legitimacy or solutions. I also want to thank the representatives. We will open recycling centres in the town of Nis, the municipalities of Red Cross, Fantela and Niška Banja, the town of Belgrade, the municipality of Palilula, the town of Sabcu, the municipality of Aleksinac, the municipality of Stara Paz, the municipality of Ruma, the municipality of Mine, the municipality of Vladicin Han and Surdulica. So far, we've got eight recycling centers to open green islands in these cities, and later we'll see 18 more cities. The state did as much as it could. We all know that we are in a specific situation, both states and citizens, but this time once again the great gratitude of the Roma community to the state and its institutions that have allowed the Roma to finally become employed, integrate. This isn't the only project. There are other projects that will surely support certain ministries and states, and on behalf of the Democratic Left of Roma and the Roma community, I thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64416	The word is a folk letter from Zlata Đerić, and the Messenger of the people Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I have an obligation in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, and at the citizens' initiative, to ask the Ministry of Justice and the High Council of the Judiciary. We are all witnessing that a reform of the judiciary has been carried out in the past four years transparently and with a big pomp. On that occasion, some judges lost their jobs, but not without pay, which is not very common in Serbia. It usually runs out of one or the other, and that is what citizens are very sensitive about, given that a large number of citizens are lost every day without basic resources, basic incomes and jobs, of course. What I am asking as a question to the Justice Ministry and the High Council of the judiciary -- when judges are not re-elected to a judicial post with an explanation that they have not met some conditions, they have continued to receive their salaries, I am interested, above all, in how much money has been spent on those receipts, and then there has been another special disgrace for the Serbian judiciary, a number of judges have been returned to work, which means that someone who has eliminated them in the first round, admitted that he has made a mistake, and we are interested in whether those in the High Council of Justice, who have made such a huge mistake or such a huge disgrace or such a disgrace for the Serbian judiciary, finally got the strength and to resign to these functions. We are interested in who are the people who are responsible for what happened in the reform of the Serbian judiciary, and how much does it cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that at a time when we advocate all possible and impossible freedom, someone cries out, like Jean Jacques Russo -- I am sick of freedom, give me justice and equality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64418	The word has a folk MP Zoran Ostojic, followed by MP Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64419	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues and colleagues from the DS, were confirmed yesterday that a company called "Kurr info" intends to buy "Politika" or "Vacadude" in "Politica", Novi Sadska "Dnevnik" and "Evener News". What we've been saying for days and what we're warning you, is that an absolute media blockade is being held before the elections, total darkness that some of the DS are preparing, plus the devastation of those last institutions that are left, what such, but are still institutions, especially "Politicals". We got confirmation that it was all true. We warned and sent a letter to everyone we thought was competent to engage in this business and prevent this plan. "Kurir," let's call him a medium for this opportunity, since we are still in the highest home, was taken over by the arrest of former owner Raja Rodic and his settlement with the state by some structures from your party. The ambition to arrange Serbia's media life is now going to get them under control and "Politics", "News" and the newly-soldic "Dnevnik". We also asked the Anti-Corruption Agency and the prosecution, we also wrote to the European Commission's office in Belgrade, to try to prevent this scenario which is certainly not good for freedom of the media and which is certainly not in line with European values. You can give up the European story. You can prepare the public that there won't be anything from the candidacy. You can fool the voters who voted for you, but you have no right to destroy the institutions of this country. We are all on the task of building democratic institutions and therefore I think that the Serbian Parliament must have the responsibility and speak its word on this plan that is being prepared. I hear an explanation that this newspaper is going to save politics from attacking some drug dealer or I don't know who from Sarajevo. The media, or company whose owner spent more in detentions and prisons than in the newsroom, will save from a similar man. Excuse me, is this some kind of police business? We don't care if DB took over double services or whether it was the other way around. Where's the state and what's the state doing? If the state authorities remain silent and the state capital representatives remain silent in these media, it will indeed be a confirmation that not only a group or a few individuals or an interest group behind it, but that the whole DS is behind it, headed by its president. Therefore, in line with the Rules of Procedure, we ask you to read the powers of the Committee on Culture and Informing of the Serbian Parliament, to urgently convene the Committee's session, to invite representatives of state capital in these media to this session, to invite representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Media, to call on representatives of the press associations and to clarify the situation, to see who came up with such a hellish plan and how to prevent it. If you don't want to stop him, then you'll behave like you've done before, without an answer. We expect the state authorities to react to what we say and expect you to have at least so much courage and courage to oppose that group that has made such a plan, to hold that session in this composition and try to protect institutions like "Politics", because indeed, Milosevic has not succeeded in being a state. He rode, but when he wanted to... Remember, Mr. Micunovic, how much speech you gave back in 1992 or 1993. Politics should also exist when Tadic and this government are gone. It's up to you to make a contribution to make that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64420	The word has been made by MP Nikola Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64421	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take this opportunity to first inform and inform certain state authorities and institutions, and then ask them on this basis for information and information, so that I can perform the function of the MP. No simpler question, no longer time to answer. Two months ago he asked the Minister of Education – how much money was planned for teaching assistants for children with developmental and disability disorders? In the meantime, that's what I sent the psycho. I hope this is three times God helps me get an answer. I am informing and informing the Republic Health Insurance Fund for its Director and Management Board that there is a County Health Insurance Fund for Vojvodina and that there is a legal obligation of the Republic Health Insurance Fund to transfer and entrust certain responsibilities to the Districtal Health Insurance Fund of Vojvodina. To this day, of course, no one thought to do that. My information, which I'm looking for, is not about whether the Director and the Management Board are doing anything, I'm not interested in it, but I'm interested in when they're going to work on transferring and entrusting competence to the Regional Health Insurance Fund and thus fulfil their legal obligation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64422	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who knows on which time I will repeat questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – when will finally the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discuss the most important national issue, the most important state issue, and that is certainly at this time Kosovo and Metohija? The Serbian Radical Party submitted to the government of the Republic of Serbia on 28 July about the situation in the southern Serbian province. The constitutional deadline is 30 days for the National Assembly to declare itself, that is, to discuss and declare the interpretation. It's been four months since July 28th. We still do not have any answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, although we and other MPs have even asked this question several times, even in this way, when we will discuss it. It is incomprehensible that both the European Parliament and the European Commission and the Council of Europe and the Security Council are discussing KIM, and that the National Assembly is the only place where this cannot be discussed. I suppose you know that the KIM Committee also suffers severe obstructions, that the Committee sessions are delayed from day to day, from Sunday to Sunday, and that the negotiating team has persistently refused to deliver these agreements to the National Assembly, to the MPs, and thus to the citizens of Serbia, as they are practically secret agreements for Serbian citizens, refuse to deliver those agreements that have been reached. Six agreements have been reached so far, we have received the text of four agreements, from them it is clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia has fully recognised the Cypriot quasi institutions. I'll just remind you of some parts of the deal. These agreements, agreed by Borko Stefanovic, we recognise Kosovo's cadastrian agency, recognise Kosovo's Supreme Court, recognise ID cards, recognise traffic permits, recognise driver's licenses, recognise license plates, parent books, citizenship, and practically, in this way, all other institutions. At the same time, the government of the Republic of Serbia has denied agreements that for vehicles owned by KIM territory, it issues registration marks with towns of Serbians such as Pristina, Gjilan, Peci and others. It is something that we cannot really accept, but given the situation in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the fact that this betrayal is now fully exposed by the EU, i.e. that Serbia is clearly told that it must give up KIM, that it must respect Kosovo's territorial integrity, given the fact that even the vice-president or vice-president of the government, as you call it, Ivica Dacic, is publicly calling and says that it is smarter to recognise the independence of KIM immediately, in order to end the wrinkling that will continue. We really think it's about time that the National Assembly discussed it. Of course, Boris Tadic continues to deceive Serbian citizens, citing that it is not, of course, a condition and that this EU blackmail we knew earlier, we have been claiming for years, that it is not set in such a way. If set to true it would be good to hear how it is set. After all, it is a very important question - how do these European values apply in Serbia? The European value is, you claim, erasing borders. When it comes to Serbia, the EU is setting new limits on our country's territory. The European value is humanitarian aid and aid to the endangered population in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in the territory of KIM. This European value is applied by blocking a Russian humanitarian convoy of 27 trucks and nearly 300 tonnes of assistance, and the maltenes, even though Maya Kocijančić and everyone else have also appeared on this problem, the highest state-run limit remained silent on this issue, which points to the fact that they practically gave up KIM. My question to the government of the Republic of Serbia is – when will the National Assembly discuss the most important national and state issue, and this issue is the situation in the southern Serbian region, i.e. KIM:
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64424	MP Gojko Radic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64425	Before I ask the question, I would like to ask the chairman to get an answer to the long-standing question, Minister Obradovic, about the introduction of bilingual teaching at the elementary school "October 10th" in Subotica. My question concerns Ivica Dacic and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Since you know there's a bypass in Subotica and there's a land expropriation on the highway, and that expropriation has reached a price from some 8-10 dinars to 60 dinars, thanks to the rebellion of the people who are expropriating. It wouldn't be weird how they came to such a price, but one very interesting question is being asked. There's a massive robbery of state property in Subotica as part of the expropriation. It happened five years ago and, don't lie down, it's about the same man who made the exchange of Minerva and business space in Subotica. An expropriation is being made, sold by the Privatisation Agency worth four million and 700 thousand dinars. So it wouldn't be a miracle, the same owner who changed Minerva, and now the foundry, because he owns the foundry, gives the foundry not as an expropriation of land, but as a property and land. That's 5,260 in square meters. In the walls of 284 meters square. The interesting thing is that local self-government offered the same owner to be delivered to the government under the regular number of expropriations – the economic solution of the government of the Republic of Serbia 05 No 465-513 5-2010 since 15 July 2010. Nothing would be strange, but it's interesting that squares have reached 1,200 euros here. Here's an example. Local self-government offers the owner eight business spaces. These eight business spaces have an area of 641 square meters. The estimated value is around 1,200-1,300 and mostly 1,230 euros per metre per square metre, which is 730,000 euros. How is the state to sell the bill for four million and 700 thousand, i.e. 80,000 euros at the time, and now the same facility, which has been abandoned, in ruins, is now paying the same facility 730,000 euros. We also took photographs of the facility. We took photographs of the facility and it's all in ruins. There's no more production there. The foundry doesn't live anymore. The question arises – how is it that for a private house next to a foundry, where the same must be expropriated, they offer a man 25 thousand euros, and he lives in his house, in order to now reach 35,000 euros? I ask Minister Dacic a question – why are the state authorities, the MUP, prosecutors not responding and housing once and for all to trace the wealth of individuals and the taking of complete state property in Subotica and putting themselves in the hands of one man? With this in mind, I ask the Government for an answer – did the Government carry out and which expert in Subotica was evaluating? I have information that the owner of the plant ordered himself a Belgrade expert and that the municipality was doing the services of the craftsman from Subotica. I'm asking a question, we had a debate a few months ago about court experts, and now it's showing how warlocks work, as they're told, and how they're ordered. How an abandoned building could be worth 730,000 euros and give it business spaces worth 600 and some thousand euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64426	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64427	I would like to ask two questions relating not so much to the work of the government and government institutions, but to systems that are in the jurisdiction of certain public enterprises, or individual ministries. In that context, I'm going to ask two questions. A few days ago, several EPS managers in Prepolje were replaced by over 300 million dinars due to their debt for spent electricity. This is news that in itself would not deserve any attention, as it is the normal and sovereign right of the headmaster, i.e. the director of the EPS in that region whose head office is in the King. However, I ask the question – why do different arches apply to different cities and municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, when we know that large cities in Serbia owe several times more than all municipalities in the Sandzak territory, and there are no shifts or sanctions against the leaders? The key question that happened is - what are the people who were asked instead of those who were reportedly replaced because of the poor realization of electricity collection? Namely, an EPS official in Prijepolje was appointed Mr Danilo Pusica, who has completed the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, however, his traineeship expired several months ago, and it takes at least five years of work experience. In place of the technical director, even more embarrassing and embarrassing, Golubović Borko was appointed to have, be careful, please, the third grade of the secondary technical school, and for this job it takes at least three years of work experience in the profession and to have a title, i.e. the degree of a graduate engineer. Unfortunately, this man not only does not meet the conditions and not only does he not have an internship, he does not have adequate expertise, but he is also involved in some of the affairs that occurred during the past period, which are related to the theft of a measuring group of some consoles, and even was involved in a disciplinary procedure, which was also being debated within the electricity distribution. Neither, nor others, who are placed on these functions, meet a single legal minimum for these jobs. So my question is to the director of Electrodistribution in the King, who apparently stands behind these people he has asked, what's this about? Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does the Elektroprivreda of Serbia and the Ministry of Energy know that at this point across Serbia, some people, since both state authorities and the public and citizens are occupied with heavy life and major political issues, are doing things that are contrary to the law? I ask an urgent answer as to how it is possible that in some of these lower places, under quotes, individual directors obviously carry out some interesting groups and represent the interests of individual groups, and not carry out the interests of the state, or the people, and even less do so contrary to the law? My second question is about two major cities in Serbia, which are Nis and Novi Sad. To this day, we don't have police chiefs in these cities. My question is, when are we going to have police officers in New Sad and Nis, because we're witnessing daily violations and everything that's going on, criminal and criminal activities on the premises of these two big cities, and we don't have a leading police man who hopefully would have managed to put these things under control? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64428	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report to use their right under Article 286? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives are answering for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Explanation of the grounds for calling the sitting within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, besides the representatives of the promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, invited the sittings to attend: Zoran Petrovic, Assistant Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government and Gordana Stanic, Head of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before we move to part of the agenda session, please set the quorum required on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that the Assembly may decide on agenda points, individually on proposals for the unification of the principled debate and changes in the order of the agenda points, as well as on the agenda in general. Please place your MP cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that we are present in the electronic system with our MPs 126, as well as that another number of MPs are present in the National Assembly session room, so we will now decide on proposals for putting on the agenda, a proposal to combine the debate and a proposal to change the order of each agenda. Proposals for review of acts by emergency procedure. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Single Election List Act be put on the agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that out of 127 present, 121 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the House Act be put on the agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that out of 127 present, 118 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Business Registers Agency Act be put on the agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that of the 126 present, 122 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers be put on the agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that of the 126 present, 122 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the loan and financing agreement between KfW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to up to 25m euros, and for "the medium size water supply and sewerage programme in Serbia II – FAZA 2". I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that of the 126 present, 109 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Commercial Bank of Belgrade be put on the agenda for the purposes of buying the Aeroengineering Building and carrying out the necessary works on the facility for the purposes of the first basic court in Belgrade. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that of the 126 present, 114 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement and the programme for the "Rehabilitation of the remote heating system in Serbia – phase IV" programme be put on the agenda at 45m euros between KfW, Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that of the 126 present, 113 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Insurance Act be put on the agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that of the 126 present, 121 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on cinematography, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2011. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that out of 127 present, 118 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda of the economic crisis, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2011. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I find that out of 127 present, 116 MPs voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the company law be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 119 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 100 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has, most of all, accepted this proposal. Proposal to merge the debate. National MP Jelena Trivan, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) of Article 170(2) and Article 170(2). 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on: a draft law amending the Housing Act and a bill amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. Then, the 2nd Joint Principle Search on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Business Registers, the Proposal for a Law on registration at the Agency for Commercial Registers, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Business Companies, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Download of Action Companies and the Proposal for a Law amending the Insurance Act. Then, the 3rd Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the Commercial Bank A.D. Belgrade for the Need of Buying of the Aeroengineering Building and Implementation of the necessary works on the facility for the purposes of housing of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan and Programme Agreement, Rehabilitation of the Remote Heating System in Serbia - Phase IV of 45,000 euros between KfW Frankfurt at the May of the Republic of Serbia. Then, the draft law on the confirmation of the loan and financing agreement between KfW Frankfurt in Majna and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 25,000,000 euros for the water supply and sewerage programme in the medium-sized municipalities of Serbia II - phase 2 and the proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank on the establishment and activities of the regional office of the European Investment Bank in the Republic of Serbia; then, the 4th Joint Principle Search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the fight against serious criminal acts particularly terrorism and organised crime, the Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the Conditions of the Two Countries, the Proposal for the Law of the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the 5th, the European Union for the European Union for the European Union to the European Union for the European Union, the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union, the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the Council for the Council for the Council for the European Union for the Council for the Council for the Council and for the Council for the Council and the Council for the Council, and the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council, and for the Council and for the Council and the Council, and for the Council for the Council, and for the Council for the Council, and for the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and the Council, and for the Does the national emissary Jelena Trivan want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the proposal of Parliament of the People of Jelena Trivan for the unification and common principle and uniform search of certain proposed items of the agenda, which have already been declared by the National Assembly. I find that, out of 127 MPs, 119 for, and the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the proposal of the National Parliament of Jelena Trivan. Proposal to change the order of certain points. National MP Jelena Trivan, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed changing the order of the sitting agenda, so that the order of the agenda points would be as follows: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Single Election List Act, 2. Proposal for a law on cinematography, 3. Proposal for a Law amending the House Act, 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia to the terms of the economic crisis, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers, 6. Proposal for a law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Society Act, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies, 9. Proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act, 10. Proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by the Commercial Bank of A.D. Belgrade for the purposes of buying the Aeroengineering Building and carrying out the necessary works on the facility for the purposes of housing the First Basic Court in Belgrade, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Loan Agreement and the Programme for the Rehabilitation of the Remote Heating System in Serbia - Phase IV of 45,000 euros between KfW Frankfurt and Main Republic of Serbia, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the loan and financing agreement between KfW Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia of 25,000,000 euros for a medium size water supply and sewerage programme in Serbia II - phase 2, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank on the establishment and activities of the regional office of the European Investment Bank, 14. A Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the Fight Against Severe Crimes, Especially Terrorism and Organized Crime, 15 / 15 Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the conditions of travel of citizens of the two countries, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the fight against organised crime, international trafficking in drugs and international terrorism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria on Social Security, 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the adoption of uniform technical regulations for vehicles with points, equipment and parts which may be incorporated and/or used on vehicles with points and conditions for mutual recognition of approvals granted under these Regulations, 19. Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, 20. Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia for 2012, 21. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act. Does the national emissary Jelena Trivan want a word? No, I don't. ) I put the motion to vote on changing the agenda points. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I find that, out of 127 MPs, 117 for, and the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted this proposal. The establishment of the session agenda in general. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, the motion to merge the debate and the proposal to amend the agenda agenda schedule, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I find that, of the 127 MPs, 120 for, and the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 as a whole. I ask the Service to prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Single Election List Act, 2. Proposal for a law on cinematography, 3. Proposal for a Law amending the House Act, 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia to the terms of the economic crisis, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers, 6. Proposal for a law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Society Act, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies, 9. Proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act, 10. Proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by the Commercial Bank of A.D. Belgrade for the purposes of buying the Aeroengineering Building and carrying out the necessary works on the facility for the purposes of housing the First Basic Court in Belgrade, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Loan Agreement and the Programme for the Rehabilitation of the Remote Heating System in Serbia - Phase IV of 45,000 euros between KfW Frankfurt and Main Republic of Serbia, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the loan and financing agreement between KfW Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia of 25,000,000 euros for a medium size water supply and sewerage programme in Serbia II - phase 2, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank on the establishment and activities of the regional office of the European Investment Bank, in the Republic of Serbia. 14. A Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the Fight Against Severe Crimes, Especially Terrorism and Organized Crime, 15 / 15 Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the conditions of travel of citizens of the two countries, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the fight against organised crime, international trafficking in drugs and international terrorism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria on Social Security, 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the adoption of uniform technical regulations for vehicles with points, equipment and parts which may be incorporated and/or used on vehicles with points and conditions for mutual recognition of approvals granted under these Regulations, 19. Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, 20. Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia for 2012, 21. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Before we move to the opening point of the agenda, I am informing the National Assembly of the resignation of a member of the government. You have accepted Mr Bozidar Djelic's resignation as Deputy Prime Minister, which is in accordance with Article 278(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, delivered to the President of the National Assembly. I remind you that a member of the government has the opportunity to explain his resignation to our Rules of Procedure. Since Minister Bozidar Djelic is not present, I remind you that Article 278 is Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly envisioned that the National Assembly, at the first next session, concluded, without a search, that a member of the Government had resigned and had not decided on it. According to Article 278, Article 3. National Assembly Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly found that Bozidar Djelic resigned as Deputy Prime Minister. According to Article 278, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the date of the establishment of the resignation of a member of the Government at the meeting of the National Assembly, shall end the term of office of the Government. Before we move to the 1st item of the agenda, I would also like to inform the National Assembly of the proposal for a way in which our work will take place today and tomorrow, given the decision to unite the agenda points, i.e. a joint principled single search for certain agenda points. Today, on Thursday 15 December 2011, the Assembly will discuss the draft law and amendments to the Law on the Single Election List and the Proposal for a Law on Cinematography. If necessary, based on Article 87. The National Assembly will be working at the session after 1800 hours. On the second day of work, tomorrow, on Friday 16 December, we will work on the next united, or joint principle and uniform search. The usual break of one hour will be given at 1400 hours. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Selection List You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of a single parliamentary group, and this: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, and with the order of MPs who want to take part in the debate when we open a first-point search of the agenda. On the basis of Article 96(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the Application of the Word are received until the opening of the principled search. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Zlata Djeric, MP New Serbia; MP Bojan Djuric, MP of the LDP; MP Milisav Petronijevic, MP of the SPS – JS and MP Nemanja Sarovic, MP of the SRS. If any of the other parliamentary groups would like the authority of one of their members to represent them during the work in the search of the 1st item of the agenda, please inform us so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Single Election List Act. Does the representative of promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64429	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, we had to appear with amendments and additions to the Single Election List Act because we had to avoid any risk that, if early elections occur, there would be any problems related to the electoral list. The problem is in the following two years ago, when the Law was passed, it immediately joined all preparations necessary for the tender to be called in order for someone to do that unique electronic database. A tender has been launched, two consortiums reported. One consortium was incomparably more expensive, or the other was incomparably cheaper than the first. Normally, he was elected a consortium that was cheaper and he had an obligation to finish the job within six months, i.e. until June 2011. I must say, the tender procedure itself has lasted in accordance with the Public Procurement Act for almost seven months. Unfortunately, the people who took the obligation to finish this job didn't finish it until June of the month. They then extended the deadline until August, so it wasn't until August 10th, so it wasn't until October 10th. He's here somewhere right now in the final phase. We, as the ministry, charged all those pens that we could charge according to the law and contract, but the total amount of work, and I think there was a major problem, the total amount of work was six million dinars, which was pretty amazing, and the other bidder had a hundred million dinars, although the estimated value of the job itself was at more than 30 million dinars, which I think was completely real. You know how, to refuse an offer of six million nowadays, that would be a media lynch to me for whoever does it. So we accepted the cheapest offer. Since the offer still stands behind Telecom Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and Comtrade, so there could be no doubt about the quality of those who appeared in the consortium. Anyway, the voter list is running late. The Ministry certainly cannot be responsible for this in any way, given that everything worked exclusively in accordance with legal procedures. We need to say a few more things to look at this situation objectively. First, if the polling list as a single electronic database could have been done by now, if it were a simple job, someone would have done it in the last 20 years or at least for the last 10 years, since we have a multiparty system since 1990, it's 2011 today. Secondly, how complicated and difficult the work is and how many countries cannot solve it, it is an example of the recent elections in Croatia where the voter list, or the state of the voter, has caused a scandal, given that the number of voters is almost the same as the number of citizens on the list, where they are dealt with by a number of several hundred thousand who obviously cannot be voters. Either the list is not correct or the voter list is not correct, and the voter list is not correct. It's not that simple to solve the question of the electoral list. Within a very short period of time, over 130 processes have been done that must be processed electronically, 130 processes, solutions, conclusions, etc., which the automatic system must process, which speaks of the scale of work. We also met with a major problem that the voter list so far was led into over 100 different and interconnective IT solutions, such a situation was in Serbia before this job was launched. Next, the big problem of home numbers and the name of the street. A number of voters still do not have JMBG listed, and a number of voters have entered the wrong JMBG. Also, over a million voters, this is a very important piece of information that needs to be known for over a million local self-government voters to run a double address. It's that units of local self-government are changing street names without doing so in the MUP, that these data are not being delivered, and we have a problem that someone in the ID card is one address, and on the polling list the other one is actually voting which is in the voter's list, because local officials know what street was changing its name. Of course, the key problem with these addresses is that there is no unique home number register, which was to be done by the Republic Geodetic Institute under the Law on diameter and catastro. So this job isn't done yet either. Also, it should be said that there are over nine million full-year citizens in the database in the MUP and we all know that we have about 6.7 million voters. So, simply this government has set out to solve something that apparently no one has solved in the past 20 years, something that no one has been particularly interested in for the past 20 years, and something that was only relevant when the elections went through, so when someone is unhappy with the election result, then they come out and wave the voter list and they say, "Here were those who are no longer alive or there were misunderstandings here, etc. So, I have no intention of justifying those who perform these works because they've contractually committed to doing so by June of the month, and they haven't done it and it's not mine to justify them. But I want to draw attention to how difficult and complicated this job is, and that may have been why the Ministry's idea of ending it by June is a little too ambitious. Maybe we weren't aware at the moment that this was abandoned, how much trouble we had in keeping these records and how much objective difficulties we had to get to that final record of the single polling list. What I can say today is that all citizens in that system are the single electoral list, the new one that was made, that the 130 procedures were completed, probably many of us seem strange, but believe 130 procedures had to be done, that the electoral list was qualified to automatically change the place of voting at the request of the citizens and to return it after the election. More or less, the job is done but I, as a minister, am simply not ready to take the risk of letting it start to apply from December 24th, without having previously carried out appropriate tests to confirm the correctness of the new electoral list system. Also, it is difficult to assess whether the elections will be regular or extraordinary. If the elections are regular, there's a chance we'll have a unique voter list. I hope I can't promise, but there's every chance we will. If they are too early, the probability is that we will not be able to work on a new single polling list. If all of this is considered, then it is logical to approach this solution that we will only extend the conduct in accordance with the previous rules of the electoral list until the regular elections. It's a precautionary measure that we could use to avoid, in the event of early elections being called, getting into a situation so we don't know which list the elections will be held. At the very least, it is better to do so, so for God's sake, and when the regular elections come, that we have a practical alternative or double control of how elections will be held. That's the basic reason for these changes today. I think it's quite clear what the problems have been. I think it's also quite clear that the only responsibility of the ministry is that it finally tried to solve the question of the electoral list and what will eventually solve it because all those who earn and something they resent were in power and no one has ever solved this and can only be jealous that someone has the strength to get into solving this, but that's their problem. Apparently there are other problems that torture some here when they can't control their behavior for more than 15 minutes. We've only got two changes left. One change is to simplify completely, so in the course of this work, these inflation solutions, we have found that it can simply simplify the procedure further and that it will be able to vote independently of the place of residence, on the place of residence, outside of residence, without the procedure provided for by the law. So, if we didn't do the procedure and made special solutions because it would make this whole thing very complicated. This way it goes far faster, simpler. We just simplified that procedure. Secondly, there was another illogicality that applied to our citizens who are abroad, so that list, at the same time, has been worked by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and have been working on units of local self-government, which has been quite complicated, so we have now corrected this illogicality and these are the other two changes that are in these six members of the Law that we are proposing today. So the job is at the end and the caution is simply to extend application and in some ways commit local self-government to continue to lead in an old and new way. I don't think that's too hard for them. At the same time, they can update all of this by taking care of these new processes, and it's better that we don't get into some situation where someone's gonna abuse and make scandals and where they're not there and compromise our election process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64430	Do the Justice and Administration Committee's rapporteurs want the word? No, I don't. ) I ask, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? MP Bojan Djuric has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64431	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP parliamentary group has returned to this room today after nearly two months of the boycott of the session because we thought that there was simply a need to come here today and try to stop you from what is clearly your intention. After you obviously completely gave up European integration after December 9th, to at least prevent you from destroying something of what was well done in the previous three or three and a half years, which you obviously don't need today, or you don't mind in what you intended to do until recently, obviously planned for spring. Since you criticized us, Mr. Minister, that we obviously have some problems, I assume you're alluding to some health problems and we can't keep our concentration for more than 15 minutes. I expect you to at least do it here, not talk as the MPs speak and try to talk about the problems you have. In fact, about the depth of the political problem that made you come today to defend this bill and do it the way you did it. I've been confused enough with what you've been saying. By preparing for this session, therefore, I have carefully read the reasoning of this bill that you have made and it has absolutely no touch point with what you have here explaining the bill. So, not a single word about the problems you've had in editing, creating, organising a single polling list. No objections to the RGZ's account. You sent this law with an explanation of what was less and all the arguments and much more important laws in the past few years. Citing form, technique, a declaration of compliance with EU rules. Such a fiddling reality, such an illusion has actually led us to a situation that today we are a country without time, without candidacy, where you are a minister in the government who six months before the deadline for holding regular parliamentary elections cannot even assess when the elections will be held and whether they will be extraordinary or regular. Please tell me what regular and what extraordinary elections in the legal and political order of the Republic of Serbia mean. From which dates are regular, or by which date the elections are considered extraordinary. Is it the beginning of March next year, if we take the deadline, the maximum period of 60 days plus 30 days, so, if that's June 11th then I guess it's March 11th the last moment until which elections have to be considered premature or extraordinary. You tell us in mid-December today that you don't know if the election will take place until half March or half March. By the same time you explain to us that after these major problems, the collapse that you had in creating a single ballot, that in those 15, twenty or 30 days, you will be able to make a unique electoral list and that if the elections are regular, if so decided by the President of the Republic, because I hear that he is the only one for himself to decide politically and legally. So, in those few weeks, you'll be able to make a perfect voter list. After you explained here that you have nine million souls in different national lists, arguing in some way with an example of Croatia. Do not take Croatia for example, it has problems with the voter lists, has problems with the political system, with the fact that it has a rule on voting its diaspora, i.e. voters abroad. That's what made that difference from 400 or 500 thousand registered voters. I have not noticed that no one in Croatia, especially in the institutions of the European Union, whose Croatia becomes a full member soon, has any more serious objection to the course of the electoral protest. Indisputable who won the election, indisputable of what political will was. That, however, cannot be said for the Republic of Serbia in which you are the minister in the portfolio who you say has so many problems, such gaps, etc. I didn't realize who got the job, who didn't get the job? Did Telecom Serbia, a majority state-owned company, and soon, as far as I can see, and in 100 per cent state-owned property, create a problem, have some other companies involved? What does that sentence mean that you had in some way a guarantee of the Chamber of Commerce? What should happen to the people who have decided and chosen between one bid of six million, the other of 100 million and your estimates, I don't know on what basis they've done, that this job is worth 30 million? Who's doing this job now? What's the guarantee that he'll do it by mid-March or we're left with an election process, relying on your hope that everything will be okay? You spoke several times about the prolonging of the deadlines, about how the contractor acted, if I understood you well, in this process, how many times he extended the deadline, so it was in May and June, so it was in November, so in December, etc. How do you blame someone else for what you do with key political processes in this country? You've been telling us for months, for years, that Serbia will get candidate status by the end of 2012 and start date of negotiations. Today you tell us easily that it may happen in February, perhaps in March, and that it will not be a disaster if it does not happen. It probably won't be a disaster if your new or old paper performers don't finish their work by mid-March, or the moment when the President of the Republic decides to slam the book, like Milosevic once did, and call the elections. Don't take the whole job down to technical provisions and technical rules. It's obvious what the fact that you came here today with a bill like this in the National Assembly. It is primarily an inability to implement those laws that we have adopted here together in time, if we are talking about laws that were a condition for obtaining Serbia's EU membership candidate status and another need for you to, at this point in time, manipulate the fear of your obedient, loyal or less loyal coalition partners with a possible moment of parliamentary elections. You did not take care of the expiry of the deadline, on December 24th, but of the situation that in just a few weeks you need votes from all 127 or 128 MPs who at this time make up the ruling majority in this country. I know that in some similar situations, for example, when adopting these telephone regulations, about the cataster, about the parent books, about the realisation of the Brussels agreement, you refused to be involved in some business that you think is not illegal or you didn't want to do it without a serious state policy decision that would stand behind it. I don't know why you're doing this. You entered this hall at a time when the parliamentary majority did not even have so much respect to hear in peace and sitting here the text of the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister, who resigned because his promise was not fulfilled, that we would become a candidate country for EU membership. Do not bring yourself into this situation that one day someone is talking about you in this way that you have spoken about people who have been involved in this process or are treating you as Mr. Djelic does at this time. No matter how many of us have years and experiences, it is more than clear what is happening in Serbia today, what is turning Serbia into in the last few months before early or regular parliamentary elections. It's just a matrix that we looked at 15 or 20 years ago -- problems with voter lists, changing the law on voter lists several months before the elections, manipulating the media, trying to establish absolute control over almost all the printed media in this country, which we listened to yesterday and today, the strange situation with the preparation and adoption of the budget, the excess of the 870m-euro bond, which is praised by Prime Minister Cvetkovic and, finally, what is actually the clearest point of continuity with that time, and this is the increasingly aggressive anti-European policy we hear these days, especially after 9 December. Is this really the platform you're planning to introduce us to the election process? Don't bring this down to trouble in making a voter's list, to problems in the ministry. I believe that the people in your ministry, there aren't many of them, you've now taken over some new jobs and other institutions, have done all they can to implement this law, but I can't forget your optimism and the same arguments you've used here since November or December 2009, when this law was passed. At the peak of this Eurooptimism, which, as a coalition, as a government, you promised that all these jobs would be completed by the middle of this year and that no one in Serbia has reason to worry that we will enter into the next election process with fully reformed electoral legislation and fully regulated electoral lists. Today you come with a bill that allows a vote or an opportunity for someone to vote outside the residence, even without adopting a certificate that would confirm where his residence is. This has nothing to do with the automatic data processing, nothing to do with Telecom and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, it has to do with your credibility or the fact that you will obviously be able to cast a shadow into the country's only democratic or political process, which in the last 10.11 years has been indisputable, which is the conduct of elections, the determination of election results, the political will of citizens and the formation of the government afterwards. I understand that this may not be the worst law to include parliament in the next few weeks. Now you are no longer interested in what the EU will say, what the European Commission and the European Council will say, you can all justify that Europe does not really want Serbia and that they are setting impossible conditions for Kosovo's recognition that you, for patriotic reasons, cannot meet. Don't underestimate the citizens of this country. They also see what this parliament looks like. Every day they listen to these impossible excuses from the Prime Minister and from each other's opposing statements. Trying to lower the ball at this time and present this as technical changes to the law will not help even ratings, which is less important, but also the reputation of democratic political institutions in this country and the creation of European integration of Serbia. I guess there's going to be a chance for us to discuss this a little more today and political implications. All I ask is that you answer me the question that I asked you – until what moment is it that the elections that are ahead of us are premature or extraordinary, and from what point is it considered that we have entered the regular elections? You here make a commitment to local self-government units, practically, to run parallel lists, or to create them until that day to call regular elections parallelly, after all the problems you've had or have so far with resources that are certainly not enough for such a thing. How will he know, after this law is passed, that local self-government units should keep the list in the old way until what day? They should watch "The Diaries" every night and see if the President of the Republic has decided to call the elections, after 10 or 15 days before that, we will have to read the papers and interpret what was said in the open or closed session of the main committee. I've been talking for almost 13 minutes. You've endured, Mr. Markovic, about 11 minutes of full concentration, and that says that you are obviously healthier and more concentrated than we are, who you've respected that we can't hold a full concentration for 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64432	Fourteen minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64433	Mr. Gjuric, I want to avoid any risk when elections come to be a problem with the voter's list. Now, if you think I'm going to expose you and all the things I'm going to hear in the assembly today, I need to repent for trying to do something here, I have to say I've already repented. Because it seems right here not to work, but the energy I've invested in this and the nerves I've lost because of the delay, it's obviously better that I've invested in media promotions or in silence and I believe I'd have a much better time than I am right now. So here I just want to make sure, because I just can't believe the word anymore and I can't believe that this process is going to be 100% over and I can't believe it's going to work because I don't have time to run the process, and if I didn't postpone this application, the local self-government would stop by the old rules of the voter list on December 24th. I'm just saying that they keep going as usual, in case this doesn't work out, so we don't have an election problem, whenever they're called. Everything else -- the EU and everything else, I didn't come here to talk about it. It's a technical matter, whatever you say here. If it works and it's over, it'll be wonderful and people will really be able to vote without bringing confirmation of where their place is. They just say where they're going to be that day, the system transfers them and they vote where they are and that's great. I repeat again – it is technically over at this point, but the question of its application is a matter of several months. Whatever you're talking about, I'm the one who made in Serbia a unique voter list and until then the government will endure that this system exists. And whoever comes after me as a minister has a unique polling list as an electronic database. Because he's real now there's just not been tested. When this term is over, I can still tell you what I did and what I did. One of the things that I'm going to be for my own personal pleasure is to say that I've made a voter's list. You asked me when the election was being debated. I wasn't talking about problems of any kind, far away either, I just said it was very unusual that I couldn't say more than two words without being thrown at me. And you may also be able to sit as a minister one day and feel what it's like when you try to say something and someone keeps throwing it at you. You asked about the election. I read the Constitution and I understand so that regular elections are discussed 90 days before the term of office of Members of the People's Parliament expires. It's just, I'm just interpreting it that way, and I think I'm interpreting it correctly. Anything else, I think, would be an early election. As far as the next issue is concerned, the consortium consisted of these companies and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce appeared there because of certificates, because they are the certification body, they, the Post office and the MUP. That's why it's made of consortium. They're all in on it. "Telecom gave the hosting and I don't know exactly how they ended up sharing those jobs with each other. The Comtrade was supposed to give software in that tender. So again, I'm telling you -- I don't know a man who on two offers, one in 100 million and the other six million would choose 100 million. I had more meetings with them then and I expressed my suspicion that the appropriate number of engineers could not finish the job within that time period, if hours of work are multiplied, etc. But again, I'm telling you -- I don't think anyone reasonable in Serbia would have decided otherwise in such a dilemma, and I think it would have been completely destroyed, very quickly, by the media, the public, etc., if you chose in a tender someone who cost 20 or 10 times as much as the one who made the cheaper offer. It is a technical matter, and I'm not prepared to take responsibility for this from the 24th, and that's why I came to the Assembly today, to propose a delay in the application of this law. But I say again, and if these elections are held without a single polling list, as an electronic database, it will be the last elections in Serbia to be held without a single ballot, as an electronic database. Whatever you think of it, I think it's a great success. I'm telling you again, in a technical sense, this could have been over for sure for the last 10 or 20 years, but nobody's done it. I thought it was necessary to do that. Just like no one else has in the past 40 or 50 years thought of not harassing us with copies of books that last as long or as long as no one has thought of the last 40 years to make a unique record of all citizens, that parent records. I tried to do all that. Part of it worked and part of it is in the process, because it's things that can't be finished in two years. But when you're trying to do something, normally, you're carrying some risks and you're subject to criticism like I am today. I wish I hadn't shown up here today. I wish those who won the tender had done their job. That would be great. Then no one would say, well done. It's meant for us not to say anything, but I'd like it to be, and I believe you'd all like it to be. We could all use an electronic polling list. But it's not like that, nor can I come here and tell you some fairy tales. It's just that the job isn't done in time. There's no time to test. I'm not brave enough to take any chances and start 24. Don't worry about local self-government. This is no extra effort for them. They run the polling list, they run it. They've been taking him for the last 20, 30 years since we entered the multiparty system. They will now only have to update changes once every two days at an electronic base. That's five or ten minutes' work. It's not some extra effort for local self-government officers. That's it. I think I've been able to answer everything you asked. I don't know if you asked anything else. If it is, I'll answer you. If you have any more questions, any more information, I'll answer you, but I think I've answered everything you asked. As far as Croatia is concerned, I don't think there's any other way we can do this. I took it as an example of a country which, both at the door of the EU and by the logic of things, should be in this information sense far ahead of us, so I simply took it as an example. It's not true there's no problem with them. With them, two private companies run voter lists, which is unimaginable here that someone tried to give to private firms and it's not a problem for these voters who, I watch what GONG was saying, it's something like our CESID. It's not a problem, they really have a problem with the unsettled voter lists, not having a diaspora allowed to vote. They have a real problem with the electoral lists themselves, which we have, to some extent, obviously than the Croats do. I'm just saying, it's a complicated thing obviously for all the countries that come from this legal system of ours. In Serbia, it is additionally complicated. I read you what's going on. The banal thing is that you have nine million voters in the MUP or we have over a million people who have one address on the election card and another address on the polling list. Believe me, to tell you the truth, no one expected this to be so difficult. I'm saying again, I have no intention of justifying these late ones. Theirs was when they called in a tender to assess. But, realistically, the problem is big, and that address register, it's not over either. These are things that aren't in my ministry's portfolio. It's not our job. But despite all this, the problem is that this programme is now being tested. There's really a problem. A little bit, a little bit, so there's a problem, a little bit, a little bit, so the system can't handle this or what, so what do we do? It's now a matter of testing, grooming that system. At least that's how these IT engineers claim it. I'm telling you again, and if it's the same as it is, it'll be the last one that's the same. What we've done remains for any government, any minister, but remains to be used for the future, and in the future, we will have a unique electoral list as an electronic database that will give more reliability. At this point, we have, if only to exempt only residences, where we have over a million, a million and a half of these double addresses. At this point, we've detected that we have hundreds of thousands of errors in the home number that are not alive, etc. It's just like that. But it's kind of evenly distributed across Serbia, it's never been reflected in the election score. It can't be reflected in the election score. But that's what it looks like. Now that's it, it's ours, it's what it is. After this election list, it'll all be far better. When that voter list, because of this delay, we didn't go, that list of voters was supposed to be connected now to this system of parent books. It's this second phase from the parent system. When someone becomes a minor, at the same time, automatically, it appears in the voter's list. So, automatically, it goes at the exact moment, when someone dies or performs a copy, or a death certificate, the moment it enters into the parent book system, it simultaneously appears in the voter list. It's all one good system. I'm telling you again, someone's going to be on top of all this in a year, two days, who's going to be a minister, but I'm telling you, it's done now. This is now just a technique that ends at a speed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64434	MP Bojan Djuric has been reported. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Replica? Yeah. Replica, here are two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64435	I'll use at least these two minutes. You, Minister, have spoken much longer. Now I'm even more worried than when I first spoke. I asked you -- what's the time to determine whether the elections are regular or extraordinary? You told me how you interpret the Constitution. Well, I think it's a breach of legal certainty in this country. Who should we ask? You wrote this law. This is how you wrote - especially from the position of the 1st member, if during 2011, or in 2012, prior to the opening of the regular elections, extraordinary elections for the MPs will be held, an old electoral list will be used. What date does that apply to? By what date are we going to apply the old polling list? Use regular, or extraordinary choices. What are regular, what are emergency choices? By what date? Not your interpretation. What is a simple rule that works in this country? That's what the key question is. It's very important for the application of this law. Don't say he won't have any trouble with local self-government. For example, the people who run these municipal administrations may have planned to no longer have that job on December 24th. You decided that today December 15th, until this session is over, that 24th of December will come, leave another job. Secondly, it's a change and an entry every two days. If it were that simple, then we'd have perfect voter lists, and we wouldn't have all the problems you're talking about here. Just to end, what does it mean that no one normal between a six million and a hundred million bid would choose six million? Well, I guess you have to act responsibly and responsibly. You have thus set up a dilemma for Serbia to choose between Europe and Kosovo and only Europe, so it seems possible for everyone to choose this first. But it ended up like this offer of six million dinars at the end, as something that's impossible and what's falling apart in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64436	Two minutes. Thank you. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64437	You're not being honest, Mr. Guric. Neither would you choose an offer of 100 million, because you know how this would end – media and public, especially if it is on the other side, say Telecom and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. Don't, when you know what would happen. I had to choose what anyone would choose in that option. I don't understand what the problem is. I'm not an authorized legal interpreter. I took my opinion – that the snap elections were all those who would have been before that 90-day term before the end of the term of office. That's my position, my opinion, and according to my opinion, this law has been formulated. Sir, I'm not the one who can give authentic interpretation of the law. It can be given by the National Assembly, and the Constitutional Court can declare the constitutionality of a law. I can't do it. I just don't know what I did wrong when I said that. I won't call the tender, I'll ask you to interpret the law, if that's such a problem for you. I mean, if it was a joke, we've heard it 16 times. If no one laughed 16 times, why do you keep saying that joke? (President: Please, no direct communication. Taking care of the agenda, I really do, because I see that both opposition parliamentary groups are in an extraordinary mood, but I do ask you for a little self-control and self-rule, to communicate with the minister, and without direct communication with each other, or with the minister. That's what I think is an interpretation and that's what I'm telling you, and to reassemble the dilemmas of a 100 or a six, I would choose the one of six, because what if we were to lie, I don't know who wouldn't do it here? You know how our public opinion is, you know how relationships are. If I'd picked one out of 100, I believe I'd have been on the front page of every newspaper for three months. I really didn't want to take it, or anyone. Secondly, they are neither Telecom, nor the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia or the Comtrade, which you need to express doubts about. None of them are involved in any independent craftsmanship. Everyone's in this business, and it's logical that one of them does it and that they're capable of handling it. I believe they're going to end this and eventually, in the test phase, it's going to prove right. I really believe that. The delay is their responsibility. Among other things, I said what they faced. Maybe if someone knew it was this bad, maybe they'd give me nine months. Now, I really don't know. It's just, I'm telling you, we tried to do it in a short time and it didn't work out. I'm responsible to the extent that I may not have assessed those deadlines. I accept such a responsibility. It's not a responsibility I don't know how I'm supposed to get hurt here in the congregation right now. Mr. Guric, if this was an easy job, I'd really wonder, why hasn't anyone done it in 10 years? You know that in these 10 years there have been immigrants and ministers, and donations and donations that could have been used for this. It was everything, so this job didn't end. If someone had started, it might have been easier to finish it. No one even started it. In the sea of work we've been doing in these four years, this job came two years ago on the agenda. We thought it would be over in two years, and now it's been brought up as a question, whether in two years and six months, two years and three months, two years and nine months, the right to tell you, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that the job ends, so if the first election can be held in this way, it'll be great. If it doesn't work, I say again, then the next one will be safe on this election list.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64438	National MP Bojan Djuric has been re-declared. Please don't abuse the replica first. I believe that the atmosphere, especially when it comes to the law, should and should be exchanged with the minister all that they think is necessary. I really ask you not to waste our time together, questions that are clearly defined in the Constitution. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64439	Does this mean what you just said, that there is a possibility that even if the elections are regular, let's say, on May 6, 2011, I apologize, in 2012, that they won't again, thank you Vice President for respecting that rule that there is no direct communication, about Gjurđevdan, maybe it's the easiest thing to talk about. So, then, is there a danger of applying the old law, or old lists? Because then that means that in the meantime we're going to change the law again? I don't know how much that's possible in the situation of disbanding the National Assembly. I don't know if the authentic interpretation you're talking about is possible. These are very, at first glance, technical things, but they can be so burdened with the electoral process, that the future election results will be burdened with these doubts. That's all I'm asking, I didn't want to abuse time. I apologize for the error in the date. You know, it's my habit, since we have so often here, and here at this session we now have a law that says, the number in 2011 changes by the number in 2012 so sometimes I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64440	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64441	Let me tell you, I guarantee that it will be then, it's not in my hands, that it depends on me personally, I can't. Now I can assume that 90% will be the right choice. We'll have it, and we'll finally know half of January. We'll know half of January whether it's going safe or not. I say again, how can I when I'm not influencing. I'm not doing it. I'm not an engineer, so if I can tell you, it'll be 100%. Probably will be. Half of January, we'll almost certainly know whether or not it is. The deadline was December 24th when I had to show up at the Assembly. There's been a thought of taking a risk. I just didn't want to take any chances and that's it. There was thinking and waiting for it to be at the end of January and then they would know 100%, one or the other, so maybe they wouldn't have to defend themselves in the Assembly, but I didn't want to risk anything. I want to do everything the way you don't risk the state and the election process.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64442	National MP Nemanja Sarovic has the word, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was really looking forward to a debate about this law and I expected what Mr. Markovic will say, how he will try to defend what was proposed here. I must admit that I expected your argument, Mr. Markovic, to be based primarily on facts and some professional answers. Instead, we've been forced here to listen to your moaning about how difficult it is, how very difficult it is, how little -- a little bit more trouble, like life is so unfair to you, but you're still a very big man, because you've agreed after 20 years to deal with that problem and, as you say, I'm going to quote you, the only responsibility of the ministry is that it finally tried to solve this problem. I will remind you, Mr. Markovic, that history does not begin from this term, as the history of your ministry does not begin from this term. You're talking about some former ministers who refused to do anything in the past, and you, Mr. Markovic, are one of those ministers. You were also a minister in Kostunica's previous government, so you didn't think to do anything to solve this problem. So, if in anything else, it has to look at your responsibility. What you're saying - I'm not an engineer, I'm not doing that program. Well, you can't know if it's going to be or not. Maybe it does, but it doesn't have to. That's your answer. You're the minister, you're responsible for that. For God's sake, who's gonna be responsible if you don't? Imagine, Mr Markovic, that someone said about those elections before 2000 – the greatest success is that this will be the last elections without a single ballot. Your greatest success is seen in failure. You claim your greatest success is that no single voter list has been made, but this will be the last election. What do you guarantee this will be the last election to be without a single ballot? At the end of 2009, you were criticised and we were then incomprehensible to give such a deadline for the application of the law, for two years, for two years. Do you know what can be done in two years? And you come and say after two years, the term was too short. Your only fault is that you're too good and that you've put too much energy into too much nerve and you've almost made us cry, but this is still important state stuff. I would remind you that before those elections in September 2000, DOS representatives locked themselves in the toilets of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when they previously took those discs on which the voter lists were on, and that was one of the basic reasons why, in your opinion, these elections were not regular. You today, more than 11 years after that, you are telling us that for this problem the absence of a single voter list is only interested in the losers of the election, i.e. after the election, that is to say, those who are dissatisfied with the results. It was one of the basic democratic postulates until 2000. It was one of the basic conditions for fair and democratic elections. How is it possible that, after 11 years of democracy and the implementation of these European principles and values, this has changed? You yourself say that there is no regulation in the EU to bring this law into line. That's not one of the European demands. It's a request to give up KIM. The request is to apologize for the non-existent genocide in Srebrenica. There's a million demands, but this isn't a request. Then you say we're doing it for us. Why didn't you do this for us? Why didn't you do this for the citizens? The Single Election List Act should be systematically reduced to the possibility of electoral theft. With this law, Mr. Markovic, you're doing exactly the opposite. You say you're reducing the risk of trouble with the voter lists. This is no longer a law on a single polling list, this is a law on the absence of a single voter list. You're using this law to create system conditions for electoral theft. You're talking about some kind of problem. You know that in the previous 2008 elections in certain municipalities, e.g. Mali Ijoš municipality, no home number was included in the polling list, no single voter had a home number. In the municipalities of Tutin and Novi Pazar, a large number of people were enrolled twice, and this was determined on the basis of home numbers. What about those who don't have birth numbers, but only names and last names are listed? On what basis are you going to establish with them what is this about? You're saying we're being led to have nine million adult citizens, and we actually have 6.7 million voters. What does that mean, Mr. Markovic? Where did 2.3 million full-aged citizens of Serbia go, who in your opinion are not voters? Are you talking about the citizens of Serbia in KIM territory? Did you, Mr. Markovic, give up the AP KIM? Who gave you the right, and by what constitution do you say your citizens are not voters? You are a moment when Mr. Djuric pointed out to you on that date from the Constitution, which will be considered as regular, which for the extraordinary elections, you then asked the gentleman who, I suppose, is the assistant secretary to give you the Constitution. Well, I'm looking by the Constitution. Don't you think that as Minister of State and Local Self-Government you were obliged to look at it a little early, to read the Constitution before you came to the O.R., not to seek constitutional provisions regarding it during the debate? Then you say, "That's what I interpret." What do we care how you interpret? How will RIK interpret? How will the President of the Republic interpret this election? Who is your interpretation binding? No one. An interpretation can be given that way by anyone. You said, "If there are regular elections, you hope to have a unique ballot, and if they are not, then you will not." It's something we really can't accept. You also say that you tried to solve this problem, and others can only be jealous. That's your word. What can we be jealous of? To your failure? That you've done it in a good way, in a shorter time, and someone's jealous. You, Mr. Markovic, say after that, and that's something completely different, you say – a unique polling list is real, we just haven't tested it yet. That's what you said in response to the replica. Tell us, now, finally, whether the unique voter list exists or not? It's not as much a problem as you represent. You're talking about using advanced innovation technologies and I don't know what. Well, there's no problem uniting that data. You by the Law on residence and residence in the MUP run a database that is significantly wider than this database that exists and is needed for a unique voter list. You can practically extract all the data you need and form this unique list of voters from this base of the Serbian MUP. This is how you define the parts of that law, and you essentially put it out of the question. As far as the solutions are concerned, seven members have this law, the SRS has submitted amendments to six members. The only thing we're not on is article 5, which has changed the deadline for printing voter lists from 24 to 48 hours. So we're being extremely correct. You've seen that all amendments are meaningful and well explained. That's how we wanted to show it, but we disagree with other solutions. The reasons for passing the law, as you say, is the first reason to allow an effective entry into the voter's list of voters who have a residence abroad. Is this what these changes allow? No, Mr. Markovic, it's not possible. You have now proposed that voters who apply for an entry into the polling list in the diplomatic and consular representation, according to the current law, which took effect two years ago, do so by the ministry responsible for the affairs of the administration, and now you change that it is done by local self-government, municipal, or city administration. Do you think a better solution is to have diplomatic and consular representations contact 160, or how many there are already, a local self-government unit in Serbia, or is it better to contact the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government? Can you imagine the communication of our consulate from the South African Republic with the municipality of Trgovišče or Black Trava, how well they will agree and what kind of communication it will be, how up-to-date it will be? Don't you think that communication is better done by the State Department with consular representations? Is it not better for one institution to perform than for each institution to communicate with each other? Imagine the chaos that this will lead to. This member who has not been so concerned with this debate so far is certainly a Article 3 that you are predicting to delete Article 15, paragraph 2 of the basic law. The SRS has submitted an amendment that makes it impossible. You have in no way explained this explanation you've given here, a complete dung, but in my opinion, it's one of the most important members. Why? If you adopt what you have suggested, you systematically allow electoral theft in the election. This law allows citizens who are not present on the day of the election and will not be in their place of residence to vote in their place of residence. So far, there has been a legal obligation to enroll in the polling list, to bring in a residence certificate. You're erasing that legal obligation. What does that mean? This means that the voter list will be registered on the basis of nice words, come and say – good afternoon, I would like to sign up for the voter list in this municipality. They take a personal card and say, "No problem, we'll put you in." What prevents someone who wants to make an election theft from the municipality to the municipality, so to go to the municipality of Stari Grad, Savski Venac, then Vracar, then Voždovac, then Rakovica, then Čukarica, etc., to visit all Belgrade municipalities or half of the municipalities in Serbia, to enlist in the electoral list, and then on the day of the election early, departs from seven in the morning, from the polling post to the polling post and the vote? He's not being stopped by anything. What's some kind of legal principle, which means common sense, which means elemental logic, is that if you want to exercise a right, to exercise it under the law of the prescribed documents, to achieve it on the basis of a legal document issued by a state body. How will you trust someone with the word that they have a place in a city or a municipality? It's something that's completely incomprehensible. So if you want pre-election theft, then don't give up on this. If you don't want pre-election theft, then accept the amendment to the SRS. If there is no single electoral list, which is a condition that would solve all these problems, then the issue of residence would not be asked, because in the single polling list no one could be listed in two places. However, Mr Markovic, you are doing two things in this law: you are eliminating the need to deliver proof of residence and, on the other hand, you are eliminating a unique electoral list for some of the next elections. The third reason you specified, you say, is that the basic reason to determine the appropriate time limit for the application of this law, which will allow for the application of the law to begin, the data that are kept in the electoral lists to be united in the single voter list. Mr. Markovic, have you set that deadline since it's the basic law? If so, please tell me in which article, since no single deadline has been established in this law. The only deadline set is that the amendment of the law will take effect on the day of its adoption. You don't have a precise deadline. If you wanted to set a deadline, the word itself says, then it determines and binds to a specific date. That would solve all the misunderstandings. I guess this is how we're supposed to trust you. Why should we trust you if you've deceived us so many times in the past? You deceived us that it would take two years, which is too long, and you were Minister and in office before that. It's more than enough time to form a unique electoral list. You've deceived us. Today you say it might be in January, maybe in February, maybe in March, but that's all possible. Basically, this will depend on political will. If DS and Boris Tadic, as the main interpreters of the constitution, say it will be the deadline, there may also be extraordinary elections on May 6th. You can call them extraordinary, because it'll be someone's interpretation. You can take the responsibility off yourself and say that interpretation to RIK. RIK, who does everything, just doesn't follow the law. You know very well, you were a member of RIK. It decides exclusively political will and decides which political party has a representative in the RIK, as well as in the National Assembly. It doesn't matter what life is, what reality is. If you have a majority, you can do anything. The reason for entry into force on the day of publication is, he says, "in order to allow the data being kept in the existing electoral lists to be included in the voter's list until the start of the law". The law shall enter into force on 24 December. How this law will allow the existing voter lists to be united by December 24th in a unique way. Mr. Markovic, this is not true. In this way, you allow a delay in the application of the law and delaying the formation of a single electoral list, not unification. The following is the reason for the law being passed by an emergency procedure. It is an extremely complex active business, which requires the use of modern information technologies, etc. which would eliminate the adverse consequences of the work of the authorities and organisations. What are the adverse consequences of the work of the authorities and organisations? Harmful consequences can only be for the citizens. Harmful consequences can only be freely expressed by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the upcoming elections. Harmful consequences can be seen in perhaps some new government that will form DS. There's no damage to the work of organs and organizations. Say exactly what's the damage? Mr. Markovic, I can give you a list here for the municipalities of Tutin, Novi Pazar and Sedica – 987 people who are double registered. The SRS filed criminal charges, we conducted judicial proceedings for numerous irregularities that were in these three municipalities in the elections. I was even a witness in those elections. Do you think anyone was convicted? It's not. These are concrete data based on the voter lists, but the matter is far worse, because there are a large number of people who do not have a home number in the polling list for these municipalities. We could determine that duplicates are only those that have a parent number. If there's no home number, there's nothing to compare. So the situation is even worse than these 987, which we have unequivocally established. You say that the law takes effect on the eighth day of the day of publication, it starts to apply for two years from the day of entry into force, and then you say, exclusively from this member, if they are regular elections, a single electoral list will be used. If they're extraordinary, then there won't be a single polling list. You still haven't given us an answer, Mr. Markovic, who is he who interprets this. I'll leave this one minute to have for later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64444	It was used 19 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to Minister Milan Markovic, I would like to inform the People's Parliament on the basis of article 87 of the National Assembly that our morning session will continue until we close the debate in the principle of the law that is under way and that a one-hour break will then be set, and in the afternoon section we will open a debate on item 2 of the agenda – a proposal for a law on cinematography. I don't know when it's gonna be right now, but that's why I'm sharing in the morning and the afternoon. Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64445	First, far from thinking that the Serbian radicals could touch you with anything, nor was it my intention to move you. You have not been moved in the past by serious and difficult fates of men. It didn't occur to me to touch someone. I wanted to open up to the MPs to tell them what the problems were. Why did I want to do that? So it wouldn't be so easy to talk about how easily you talked, if this wasn't any problem. Well, wait, you ran the Justice Department whose framework was the electoral list, so why didn't you solve it as a party? It's so simple, tras-tras, here's the polling list, I really don't understand. Or you think I'm such a silly man that I don't purposely want to solve the voter's list. So, is there a problem then, it's okay you have the right to think of me that way. So, I deliberately didn't want to make a voter list, it's all on purpose to steal Serbian radicals in the election. Come on, please. That's really unserious. What does KIM have to do with anything? That's right, grab some data, when the KIM voters are listed in this base we now have, a united base that is united. So the voter list isn't ready for operational use, that's it. What difference does this nine million make, so there's half the people who aren't alive. That's why there's nine million, and I don't know how much in the MIP data, because there's no information technology developed in Serbia, it doesn't matter that when someone shows up, so when someone dies, it automatically goes to the M.O.P. to delete it from their records, to automatically go to some polling list, there's no, there's not even between municipalities and local police administrations, so what do they do? That's the situation. You tell me - I was the minister in that government. Well, I'm not the minister just for the voter list, or you think I haven't done anything in four years, you think that's your right. So if I'm just the minister of the voter's list then your official was just the minister of the voter's list, so since she didn't finish, neither did I. There, she was a minister of justice within which there was a voter's list. So, she was the deputy minister of justice, I apologize, I apologize... (Chairman: Please don't throw away.) )......................................................................................................... Generally I don't understand, it's that simple now, and you've been, you've participated in the government, and you haven't solved it, and now you want to blame me for something. That was ten years ago... (President: People's MPs, I am asking you without a pass and without direct communication. )......................................................................................................... according to what Mr. Sarovic said, it's an hour's work, get yourself together from here, from there. How come no one's done it in 10, 20 years? Why doesn't anyone do it if it's that simple? I don't understand. If you come to power one day, then solve other things as easily as you can. I was just about to say what all the problems were, just to introduce you to the problems, because I didn't know they were that kind of problems either. Now that we've started doing it, there are problems opening up and you can see who they are. Now I understand why no one's done it before. Because it's hard and it's easier to get around the subject. Whoever went to the bathroom with that CD, it's not us, you know. The one who went to the VC is a member of another political party, has nothing to do with us. As far as RIK is concerned, I was never a member of RIK. You have your representatives in RIK, as all other political parties have, but I did not hear your support when I said that the law must be changed and the law on the state election commission is passed and that the issue of political party participation in RIK is more resolved. You didn't give support? Of course you're not, and now you're against it -- there are party representatives there, so they make a political decision. I'll write that down as your statement, if one day I'm in a position to re-propose such a law. It bothers you that they are, and you didn't support it to change. Therefore, if it is unclear whether the rules are changed and the conduct of the electoral list is unclear, this remark is the only one that had anything to do with the law. It's no problem. We can explain it through the amendment. If that's a question, it's no problem. We'll see what kind of amendment you've given, we'll explain through the amendment, it's no problem. I accept that, if it's to be explained, let me get this straight. That it's not going to the residence, but I think it's clear, either it's being run one way or another, or we're going to go to the election according to the old regulations or we're going to do it new. We can't have half of the new, half of the old. If he doesn't have a single base, he can't be at the residence, if he has a single base, then he can do it by residence, that's it. It's the only thing I accept from your discussion. This rest was one political tract from KIM to my personal responsibility. I don't know what you're trying to say, but you probably think I'm completely insane, so I'm not going to make a voter list on purpose. I don't know what you think of me. For these four, five years, the voter list, each ministry has its own work plan. In the first term, those eight months, the duration of that mandate, along with your political party, we have dealt with electoral legislation. It took you two months to do it, and the squirrel helped. You've been involved in this with others. How can you be so incorrect now, and you say – here are two mandates? What two terms? If in this term do I have to tell you what happened? From the municipal police, the parent books, re-change of the law, making state administrations make local self-governments, a dozen other things, I mean 20 laws, new institutes that we've introduced, etc. The election list was two years ago. If I'd known there was going to be a problem like this, I'd have changed the order, so I'd have been doing the ballot three years ago, and I'd have done something else two years ago. I didn't think it would be like this. Who could have estimated that the tender would last seven months? It happened the way it happened. I'm still telling you, it's just a matter of whether there will be an early election. I'm sure 90% that if there's no early elections, we'll have an operational voter list, and if there's an early election, we won't have one. What kind of theft, what are you talking about? Since all these years no one has objected to the voter lists, except for that day, two, it's just a shadow of the election and then it's over. We all know that every time the elections were with these electoral lists that we have, we all know that the voter lists aren't perfect and we all know that they didn't affect the result of the election. Now you mention the question of the municipality, then some lawsuits, then processing. What do I have to do with this, where did you show up as a witness? Yeah, you didn't. As long as you are, I just don't know it. There are courts, I guess, so let them handle these things. I'm not here to answer now why you filed a complaint five years ago, so it wasn't processed. I really don't know or can talk that way. If it's a matter of residence, we're prepared to resolve it so there's no doubt, if you suspect anything. Suggest, we will accept the amendment if they are not the old amendments – delete, delete. If they're old, then we'll find another way to solve that question. I simply cannot accept this rest as serious remarks, and especially don't give me that job, because then you question either my common sense or the smartness of the people who listen. It's not exactly to collect CDs from 174 local self-government units and say – we have a voter list. It's just, it's not like that, we all know that we're sitting here. So it wouldn't last as long as it lasts. I'm going back to the old question, when you were in the government, you didn't solve this problem. What gives you the right to talk about what I did with so many things? This job has been done by no one in Serbia for 21 years, as long as it lasts multi-partyly. Now you want me to not know what you're doing here because of what I came and said – late a little, careful doing I think you should extend the old man's leadership. I don't know what kind of political issue you want to make of it. The whole theme of today's session, these agenda points, is the following – late making of something that no one has done for 21 years, six months late. Caution works, I think we should extend the old man's leadership. That's all I came to say in the Assembly, and you made 20 minutes of it the worst possible criticism on my account, personally. I don't know what you're already trying to tell me, that I'm erasing KIM from the voter list, if that's one of the points of your speech. And I wish someone who had been in power had done this, but that's not a question for me. That's a question for your party, among other things. And you were in power, so you didn't make a list. Now it's my fault for going to do it, so it's six months late.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64446	Before we continue the work, i.e. the National MP Nemanja Sarović is entitled to the replica, allow me to welcome students and professors of the Economic School "Nada Dimić" from Zemun, who are currently following part of today's session from the gallery of the large hall, where they are present: Aleksić Stefan, Anastasijević Milica, Antonić Jovan, Babić Dušica, Barac Ivana, Belodić Tijana, Belojić Miljan, Bijelj Milica, Bunijevac Zvena, Vjeljinović Jovana, Vidović, Vojakašin Aleksandar, Gojković Ljubica, Grujić Milan, Dobojić Sanja, Bijeća Milić Stefan, Živić Kristanovic, Živanovic, Zivić Todor, Zavisić, Zavisić Luka, Ivanović, Ivanović Teodar, Ivanović, Ilic Ivanić Ivanić Ivanić Ivanić, Ilić, Ivanić Ivanažić, Javić, Javić, Javić, Milić, Milić, Mirić, Ivanažt Mir, Ivanažt Mir, Ivana, Ivana Mir, Ivanaž, Ivanaž. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. People's MPs, please welcome them with applause. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, right on line, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64447	Unfortunately, Mr. Markovic came out of the O.R. which I find extremely incorrect in the middle of the debate to leave the O.R. That shows his disrespect for the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64448	National MP, every participant in the session has the right to leave the sitting room whenever other obligations require of him, regardless of the motive of obligations you have as well as any other participant. So please, if you want to use the right to replicate yourself to do so without abuse of your rights as given in the debate to answer the minister or to supplement the question. You don't want to use replica rights? Thank you. Any of the other presidents or authorized representatives... People's MP, I asked you nicely, do you want to use the right to replicate? You deleted the MP from the electronic panel, you deleted yourself from the panel, you were not in the system. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, two minutes of replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please use the replica, because if you don't want to do it, you're forcing me to do what I don't want to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64449	So, Mr. Markovic, he stated that he wasn't surprised that he didn't touch me, because my God said he didn't even say the heavy fates of the people in the previous period and the heavy casualties didn't move anyone from the SRS. What he said was shameful, what he said was incorrect and that only speaks of Mr Markovic, and not of me and the SRS. (President: National MP, please use the right to reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you feel that you have the right to judge who touched whom, so does the other participant in the session. So I ask you that if you feel that you have the right to say what you want, to remember that you have the obligation to listen to what you do not like, or you will use the replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or you will not have the right to reply, it is up to you to decide. Can I go on? (President: Of course according to the Rules of Procedure. ) Thank you, Mrs. Comic, you're very kind. The second thing Mr. Minister said is that he's not the minister just for the voter list. That was not claimed by anyone in the debate, but also Mr Markovic's justification for his apparent incompetence that in three years since the minister formed the electoral list, he blames someone from the SRS. What is that argument that he says, 13 years ago, someone from your party was the assistant minister of justice, that is, the deputy minister of justice, so you didn't do it 13 years ago and why you're asking me to do it in 2011, in the end. So Minister Markovic didn't find it appropriate to say he was responsible. I'm responsible for what's obvious failure has already tried to declare it a success. He says he is not the minister just for that and asks what does Kosovo have to do with it, what does the residence have to do with it? Nowhere in the law does it say that the provisions of Article 15(2) will not apply if there are extraordinary elections. Where does it say in the law? Is that where we should trust Minister Markovic on his word? If you've already had any intention, it doesn't say in an explanation. The other thing doesn't even say it in the law, which is the most important thing. And the third thing about RIK. The Serbian Radical Party did not support the proposal to form a DRI, because those people sitting in it would also be politically defined, such as the political ones sitting in the RIK. But RIK is not a problem but the problem is that in courts, people who are determined on a political basis and that courts make politically motivated decisions, not decisions based on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64450	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64451	Thank you very much. I believe in Mr. Markovic's good intentions to create a alternative variant for the situation that will take place and not now to commend him for making the alternative variant but just to make an analogy. The reserve is also created in case banks are threatened, so deposits are guaranteed, not five, not 10, not 20, to 50,000 euros, and that's good. It's a good thing there's a back-up variant that if the investment funds are subcapitulated, they can't keep working, they can't create a backup variant. But it's not good that the reserve variant is created only in some, in this case yes, it's commendable that you create a spare variant, but in the basic functioning of this society there is no alternative variant, which is that what is the basis for building a common society, what we once called learning in school, building on this political democracy, and that is the production as a material base from which we all finance ourselves, including these jobs, has not found enough room for it to make a spare variant of privatisation to date. Mr. Minister, I appreciate that if there is an emergency election, and there is no question of whether or not we have a unique electoral list, or what law we are acting under, that at the time of the pre-election operations, it takes away our energy to do this job instead of someone else. And I also understand the weight of the work that you're getting into and where you rightly say -- we didn't even know how it would work, and some things just in the phase of testing, you see that you can't even informically embrace it at one point or in the way that you predicted by designing some software. It is something that must be acknowledged that the circumstances that happen as every serious person says when we do law for one area, we cannot predict all the situations that life will direct and therefore create some situations in principle, broadly or need to bring interpretations because really no one can predict what life brings. Technically, it's a team where it's possible to happen, and I don't have that data and information, or how much it cost the tender, or who it does, but this really is a big and serious job. I give you the right here, but when we say it's a technical matter, don't deceive ourselves or the citizens, that this is a technical thing that is irrelevant, not that it's very important, and that's why you came out in 2009 with a law that was meant to create a single electoral list. Why don't we speak plainly, why is this technically important? We all know that whoever gets the lists and who has in their hands the list of streets, the local board, the local community, the city, the municipality where he's in charge of conducting the elections has the advantage because he can call and influence the citizens. We live in this Serbia, the citizens are over the heads of those who ring the doorbell, all of our activists who are looking for a safe voice, who want some to commit people so they don't let them rest in the afternoon. I don't care so much, and I object to the real results of someone's rule or the foundation of a promise made by someone if it's an opposition, but too much to take care of that technical matter, the lists in whose hands are statistics, who handles those data, who has activists who don't know where he pays from, to go and ring the doorbell and to get that technical part of the job done. Those activists have no idea about the program. They do not speak at all about what the parties are offering but it is very important in the election day who will draw voters to the vote. Someone who knows how to track and software connections or their field organization, whose voter, and people who know each other in their place, even the sick get away with it, even those who work somewhere, will hear that their director did not go out to vote for the party he represents, etc. This isn't technique itself. This is a political performance called - to punish the undetectableness of one who expected a big job, to all bells to publish it, and failed to do it, to say that you have now put aside this member's numerous provisions of the electoral law and I fear it will create great problems in the process of conducting the elections, if this situation happens, if it is extraordinary. Everything's still conditional, so the backup variant and it can affect the election result. Because it's not just about whether that list will apply. A large number of provisions have come into question, and I only warn you that such an amendment and addition of this electoral law can indeed create one serious galamitia and create doubt about the regularity of the election. I don't dispute the right of the authorities to call the elections when they think it suits them the most, that the electoral list, while it's all in her hands, arranges as it suits them, but it's not good to see yourself as power forever, because as long as you're in power, you know that mandate limits exist. Now I'm just wondering -- what did you insist on for four years on staying on a regular basis for the elections, and here, for the president even in the budget, they're writing a paper, for 2012, the National Assembly has provided funds for the extraordinary presidential elections? And there it is possible to create in this shortage a reserve of money for something that is extraordinary, because it might be appropriate to hold a referendum, presidential elections at the same time, etc. And that's legitimate. It's up to us to talk about it, to propose to you, to vote. What effects they'll produce on the citizens and the total budget we'll see. Just one thing to say. I just don't want to mention the Law on Community Police, because I think the moment the police strike today and seek to exercise their rights, I struggled that the administrator doesn't have the same rights as the one who's on the street of a clay pigeon. It's not good that communal cops, well, it's a new service, they have to be trained, equipped, etc., and that law isn't something I'm putting you as a plus, administrative inspection in any case, and I really appreciate your seriousness to do something that will be good tomorrow, not just while you're in power. When the Constitution states - you have the right to freedom of opinion and we take it for granted, wait, a citizen should have the right to freedom to express his opinion, because as you stand before a tyrant and keep quiet about your opinion, you are safe, but if you dare to speak and express your opinion, you are in trouble. I do not want such, allegedly constitutional or other provisions to regulate an election process that is very important. The right to freedom of expression of political will, political views we must have not only in the electoral process, we must have it all the time between the two elections. The judiciary cannot be placed in the position of calling on the president of one party to appear on 21st because the poster was in an irregular place and that we show such urgency, and that some crimes, where major material damage to the state, where the works are difficult in weight, are carried out long and only for the purpose of pre-election depravation of competition. You must understand, whoever stones you, you will understand him. It is human nature that what is done to man, he will be ready to fight back, even though Christianity teaches us something else. You must bear in mind that in approach to this most sensitive and important process, you should be honest with yourself as a man and a citizen of Serbia, not to yourself as a government. I'll always support the election commission, even though I've had a hundred objections, and I still have, in the way they've set their own fees. But there's no difference between the state election board and this election commission. The imperfection of democracy has long been established. There is no regulatory body, this independent council, any expert body that shows up with experts who have been certified to be professional, independent and politically impenetrable, so there is always a policy that gives them the opportunity to prove themselves, to be professors, to publish papers, to travel abroad, to perfect themselves. Always some policy to give them support or those 126 votes here. Let us not pretend that political support is not needed for each of these members who are elected by some of these bodies, and therefore we as political parties are ready to take responsibility, let us assume it in the electoral commission, as we have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64452	Time. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report that they are using their right in this part of the session? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a principled search of the application for a word in writing, of course with the order of MPs, submitted by the MP group ZES, the LDP parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. The first to be reported on the list, MP Aleksandar Jugovic, has an obligation outside the hall, so the word has been made by MP Ivan Andric, and after that, MP Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64453	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Apparently, this is a technical issue and apparently this session or this part of the agenda should be one in a series of points around which, due to some technical problems, some amendments to the law are being made. But it might be so if we lived in Switzerland or Sweden, so the minister comes, he says -- well, people, it's all been okay so far, we tried to improve this, but we failed, what do we do, we have to extend the deadline for a few more months. We then say, "Well, since we believe in good intentions, and these governments and that minister, and then we just say, "Let's give it another chance." Unfortunately, we would be politically naive to believe in such a thing. We need to look at this move DS and its minister in a broader context, and the wider context is different for a shade than in Sweden. This is a country where, at the request of one opposition parliamentary group, a party discussed the replacement of another minister, since the ruling majority did not have a majority, it never came to the vote. It's anti-democratic. This is a country where a group of states in power is called For a European Serbia, which did not get candidate status, but no one has the intention to show responsibility for the move, but first it was – well, no matter, it will be in March, and since it will not be in March, then Europe has actually asked us to recognise Kosovo, and since Europe has not asked for recognition of Kosovo, it is actually because the opposition has lobbyed against obtaining candidate status. It all happened in a few days. Furthermore, the question, and when we are expected to believe or to approach with some understanding some requirement of ruling states, then it must be clear that we do not view it as a personal matter and that you say now – here, I have done nothing. Don't ask us to appreciate whether you've done something or not. We'll give each of yours five examples of what you didn't do right. Here is one - what about the Bosniak national council? That's normal because we're the opposition, and you're the government. You'll see the result in the election. The longer you delay them, the worse the result will be for you, but that's our attitude, yours is probably someone else. What I would like to say is that for us it is a key issue of responsibility and perhaps not the personal responsibility of the minister because this assembly, by its Rules of Procedure and by law, does not choose ministers because it believes that they are good or bad people, it is not a topic in our relations, the topic is political. Now, how do we expect you to expect any responsibility if you didn't show responsibility not personally but your government on hundreds of other cases? How can you expect us to trust you? You're saying that this election list is only in three months, old man, and then it's gonna be new, we're gonna get it done, and you're here because you didn't have time to finish it? These companies that you've listed, they're public enterprises, companies, associations, etc., I can see that there's someone private, of course we're not against co-operation with the private sector, but you know what unites all those companies you said – the closeness of the Democratic Party. That's very clear. That's why there's another kind of responsibility you have, which isn't personal, and it doesn't depend on whether you're a good man or not. You're in that place because at some point you were part of some political party. This political party has lied a thousand times and therefore do not expect us to trust you. Because it's wrong. That's not based on reality. If you're going to do it, we'll see in January. But don't forget, too, when you say that, whether or not you're going to change the law, that you're part of the government, which changes the laws by regulation. Why didn't you sign the book code? The paper said you voted against it. They lie or don't lie to the paper, it doesn't matter, they're yours. And if they're lying, that's what someone in the DS put on. I understand your anger or your astonishment as to why the opposition MPs are discussing you. But you have to understand that we don't discuss you personally, we don't care, we're not in any kind of personal and private relationship. When we talk about you, regardless of what you are as Bozidar Djelic, as someone else, you want to be a member of the DS today, you are, and you have to share responsibility for the actions of the President of the Tennis Union, who was not on the main board, he was somewhere else, so he can't comment on what was being said there, you have to answer the question why there is no session on Kosovo, because you are the minister in that government, you have to tell us why Serbia didn't get the candidature, which is the purpose of further work of this assembly if one of the basic or basic aims at getting the candidacy? We didn't get it, and why don't we discuss today's plan for Serbia to win the bid instead of this issue? (President: National MP, because it is not on the agenda, as the discussion in six minutes has very little to do with the agenda point. ) No, it has a lot to do with the agenda point, if you're looking at the context. Please don't interrupt me. (President: National MP, it is my duty and my job to remind you, please do not throw away and control yourself. I don't care about you. Six minutes from the time of the parliamentary group I listened very carefully to you and except in one sentence, where the agenda was discussed, nothing else you said was about the topic of the agenda. I reminded you of the obligation to speak on the agenda at the time you used an argument as part of your presentation why something else was not on the agenda. Please, if you wish to address the National Assembly, do so in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go. I don't think I'm gonna come up with anything to say to you. But what you're saying is you don't listen to what I'm talking about. Your party has decided that it is not enough, and it has nothing to do with this law, that it is not enough to lie to us anymore, deceive us, fail to meet the agreement, but has decided that it is engaged in an election technique. It scares us as an opposition, because we see what happens in other fields of your party's work, i.e. Your governments. That's why what I'm saying has to do with the law amending the Law on the Election List. Because your minister came and asked us to trust him. That's how he started his speech. That's why you have no right to interrupt me, because I explain why I don't trust him. This law, if you're able to read it, it has a promise that the new single voter list will be completed in three months. I'm telling you he won't. And it only has to do with this law. Please don't use what I say about your party to interrupt me and speak for our MP group. I know very well what I'm talking about and why you can't, because I don't insult anyone personally, I value you but citizens in elections. (President: People's Parliament, I now warn you once again that you are talking about the subject of the agenda. It is my duty to listen carefully to the MPs and remind them when they do not speak on the subject of the agenda. It's a job I'll do forever and in any case, carefully listening to all the MPs. Now please – on the subject of the agenda. Here you go. What you've started to do here, I'm telling you, it tells us two things. The first is that you've completely lost your compass and now you're not sure the election will be held in time, and you're not allowed to say it publicly, but like everything else you're doing, in one insidious way, you've come to this assembly and you've made sure of the next election. In the same way that you take over the printed media in Serbia, as you have forgotten all the obligations that we had together and which are related to Serbia's candidacy and its membership in the EU and as every day you tell lies about what the conditions of the EU were, thus concealing your incompetence, which is being viewed and in the implementation of laws that you yourself passed a few months ago, and whose provisions due to technical and new things you failed to fulfil. That's true and your responsibility is as big or as big as it is, but it exists. Perhaps in this case your personal small one, but in the case of the Bosniak National Council is immeasurable, because you radicalized relations in Sandzak and continued to do what your predecessor did. Because of all this, you have the right to do everything -- to take away our word, to buy all the newspapers that exist in this country, to block all the media. But you have no right to ask us to trust you, because we don't trust you anymore. Instead of coming with a clear plan, you have come with a technical change of law that will allow you to call the elections when you establish control of the media, of the finances and when you manage to get us all out of public life. But then you'll fail in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64454	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds in this address and the previous six minutes, a total of nine minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Verica Radeta, followed by a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64455	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have been here for more than 20 years since the multi-party in Serbia, the SRS has submitted a constitutional appeal after each election held and the election results declared, because all the elections held so far can be treated as illegal and illegal, for two basic reasons. One reason is that there is no single electoral list and that allows for stealing in elections. The second reason is that, especially in the last 11 years, DOS representatives do not want to form a monitoring board to control the media representation of parties and campaign management. We are listening here just before Jorganko Tabakovic, who is in this place thanks to theft, electoral theft, or theft of the will of Serbian citizens, who talks about how campaigns are being conducted and how voters are being bought, and then, ministers, you don't get to say a word about it, and you know as well as the citizens of these municipalities where the elections were held, how the advancers led doctors, gave people glasses, and then put into trouble the sight of those people who took those glasses for free. Imagine, taking doctors to gynaecologists to examine women in the field. They gave in Ugrinov's plasma televisions, cell phones, stoves that weren't everything. If there were a supervisory board, which we are talking about in the Serbian Radical Party, then we could certainly put in some control and put in order those who are thus trying to steal voters' votes. When Mr Markovic spoke two years ago about this basic law on the single polling list, which is now changing and supplementing this new law, then Mr Markovic was full of elites, assured us that it was a law that would not have its changes and additions, that it was a law that would bring revolutionary changes to the electoral system and that it was a law among other laws that introduced serious reforms in Serbia's political life. We then argued, Mr. Markovic, we assume, remembers that you are passing an inapplicable law, that you are passing a law that will not be able to live in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. You convinced us it wasn't true. Here, today we have on the agenda amendments and additions to the law and proof of what the Serbian Radical Party claimed two years ago, which is what we normally claim when we talk about the draft laws that are being represented here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Milan Markovic, in these ten years we have known each other, I know as an MP and as a minister in the second session, has never been as indisposed and nervous about communicating with MPs as today. It's just amazing what we've heard here from a man who, first of all, is a graduate lawyer, just amazing. Milan Markovic spoke of the risk of early elections, which is truly amazing. Who can take the risk of early elections other than those who are in power now? The tender for the creation of a single polling list, it's really something that really fascinated me, when we talked about this law, we talked about how we could do a very simple single polling list. Then Milan Markovic gets angry when Nemanja Sarovic draws attention to what we said, how can it be done and then says - why did they not do it radically when they were part of the government? Yes, we, the Serbian Radicals, were part of the government at the republical level for two and a half years, and the immeasurable contribution of the Serbian Radical Party and our president, Vojislav Seselj, is to pass a law on the selection of MPs, which is still in force today. The law then united all political parties on the political scene of Serbia, both the authorities and the opposition in October. The only thing you've changed in that law is the creation of candidates for MPs on the basis of some order, that is, the selection of MPs from that list in order and what you have counter-constitutionally declared to be Members of the mandate. Everything else remains in force under that law, Mr. Milan Markovic, and the law provides for the existence of a single electoral list and a supervisory board, but unfortunately we were no longer in a position to work on it as part of the government. That's why we've been distracting from this level, even for you more than once. You say – The Ministry can't be held accountable in any way because we don't have a voter list and because you were probably, as your party colleague, that plagiarist Lilic, said, you were in legal error when you convinced us here that this law would be absolutely applicable by the next election, even when they were. Then who's the one who's responsible if it's not you? The guy who answered the tender, didn't do his job? Well, who's responsible for having that tender in the first place, and what in the first place did you put someone there, when it was possible to do it in the framework of the ministries, not just yours, but the ones you're criticizing here? You criticised your colleague Dulic's ministry, then the police department. So it's all because we don't have a single polling list, only you're not. You say if it were simple, it would have been done already. Well, Mr. Markovic, I suppose you knew that in 2009. Then you didn't tell us it was impossible to make a single ballot in two years. You claimed otherwise. We don't really know what's changed in the meantime. You also talked about the problem of home numbers, streets and over a million voters headed to two addresses. So we know all that and we've been telling it all for years. We also told you this when you claimed in 2009 that you were making a great law, which you are changing today. What you are confirming today, Mr. Milan Markovic, is saying that you are ready and that you are aware that the next elections will be stolen, because if you claim this, which we know is true, if you confirm it, then that means that all previous elections have been illegal and illegal and that these next elections will be stolen. According to what you said, it can only be concluded that the elections can never be held in Serbia. That's the logical conclusion of what you said. Especially when you say – if God does not give you regular elections. So if you're at risk of an early election, you say -- God forbid regular elections happen, then we're really wondering if you're ever going to call the election? We're kind of afraid it's not your intention. You can't promise that this job will be completed by the next election, but there's every chance that a single voter list will be made. Well, Mr. Markovic, there is every opportunity that we will not have a single electoral list after these changes, before the basic law is good, which the basic law did not create conditions for Serbia to have a single electoral list. What's really something that's just amazing, and yet I'm amazed that you as a lawyer, whose legal knowledge I really respected, that you could suggest that you amend this Article 30 in the way that you did this. Exceptionally, from the position of the 1st member, if, in 2011 or 2012, prior to the opening of the regular elections, extraordinary elections for the MPs will be held, these elections will benefit from existing lists established prior to the entry into force of this law, and the rules on the basis of which they are established in the case of the calling of regular elections for MPs will apply this law. From the date of application of this law to the publication of regular elections for MPs, i.e. until the end of the extraordinary elections, from the position of 1st member of the municipal, or city administration, the obligation is to make the electoral lists of water and by the rules on which they are governed before the entry into force of this law. Mr. Minister, you can say this in an interview with some newspaper, to describe how you see it, but this to be a formulation of the legal norm, this is just amazing. What emergency? What regular? When? Will it be? Won't it be? I guess you have to limit the date, if you're already limiting the application of some legal standards. Then it has to be precisely set by date, and not by system, I'm telling you a story. This is just one of the major remarks, and you heard from our authorised representative, colleague Nemanje Sarovic, through the amendments, because we have had our remarks on all members, through the amendments we will talk precisely about it, and I want to ask you for a few things, of course, very much about the elections and the unique vote list. Do you have information and do you have an answer to the question why the King's election for the local communities, the council of the local communities was called in, and seven days before the election, the decision was withdrawn? Then the election was re-scheduled, and then two days before the election was held, the decision was withdrawn. Maybe you don't have any information. I expect you'll at least find out by the second part of the debate, and then you'll let us know. We also have to ask you, and we must not miss the opportunity, you were angry when we mentioned that this unique electoral list or a set of electoral lists, which is actually what you call a single polling list, must also refer to the KIM territory, that is, the whole of Serbia. You said, "What a KiM, what electoral lists, you said just before when you were speaking after the discussion "I had no Šarovic and just astounding." You must ensure, Minister, that every law is applied throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If you can't do that, if you won't, if someone in the government doesn't, then get them to accept more of the SRS proposal to discuss the problems at KIM in this House. We have been asking for months, asking, insisting, but we have no positive response, neither in the congregation majority, nor as far as you are concerned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And Minister Markovic, the last question for you, since we have learned in the media that not all ministers voted in favour of a regulation that has been recognised, by which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this regime have recognised the Supreme Court of the so-called state of Kosovo and thus actually recognised the false state of Kosovo, we want to know which of the ministers was against this regulation? If you, why didn't you convince others that what they were doing was unconstitutional, if you didn't, why did you make an appointment as a lawyer and why didn't you draw attention to your colleagues to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64456	Thirteen minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to the MP Judith Popovic, I would like to apologize to the MP group of New Serbia, MP Zlata Djeric, an unintentioned passover, her name was read as the name of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, and MP Zlata Djeric wants to speak in order and is on the list of MPs. Sorry again, the mistake is not intended and thank you for warning us. National MP Judita Popovic, followed by National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64457	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here today I am going to talk about the agenda point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Single Election List and the way I think I should speak, as my previous MPs said, Mr Andric. So he simply, in the way he argued against this law, wanted to address this parliament and the public, about these changes, which he considers to be quite problematic regarding the single voter list. So he followed the Rules of Procedure completely, as I will, when explaining my position and attitude of my parliamentary club, on amendments and additions to the Single Election List Act. I would especially point out that the key words regarding these amendments and the addition of laws, delays, responsibilities and times, and as lastly, continuity. The minister spoke earlier about being 21 years late with this unique voter list, since the most important change is the one contained in Article 6. The bill, which actually refers to a unique voter's list of members of the 30th existing law. So if he's 21 years late - is anyone responsible? Responsibility is being put in place for this reason because at least for the past two years, something could have been done, and obviously it hasn't been done. So responsibility is still at this ministry that didn't finish the job and should have done it, because that's what the December 2009 law predicted. Why it didn't work out, we didn't get a clear answer, the culprit was marked in terms of modern information technology, and you can read it in the context of the Amendments and Supplements Bill. We are aware that a unique electoral list is absolutely necessary. However, in the event of an early election, it will again be used with existing polling lists, which were fairly compromised during the 1990s, and clearly continued continuity with the 1990s. Unfortunately, continuity is not exhausting only in the single voter list, but continuity continues at all in one wrong policy, including KIM, and we know the consequences of this continuity, we know the consequences of these wrong policies, both Kim and Europe. So, from the minister we heard that the existing single voter list is not operational. No matter what it means, obviously it will not apply and obviously we continue to use one wrong methodology, the wrong approach in solving social, state and all other issues that have been given to us in the task, both the ministries and parliament. I would thus explain the fact that even to this day, there was no session of this assembly to discuss such a burning issue as the problem of KIM, which is one of the reasons why we were rejected in such a beautiful way on December 9th, as far as our candidacy is concerned. All in all, Serbia is losing the game of time. Serbia does not have time, however, so easily understands the concept here, and it is easy to understand that every day lost, a day lost for the citizens of this country, and that means that every day their standard collapses, their human rights collapse, and every day a general integrity of this country collapses. Everything will be harder to replace the time already lost. So it's not an argument for this bill to wait 21 years, so we'll wait another month. It's just that it's cynical when we refer to something that's pretty negative. If business is not done and one process that had to be completed is not completed, in which case, it cannot be some positive argument for these amendments and additions to the laws that are on the agenda today. So once again, I would underline the fact that Serbia is losing the game with time for this very reason because it is too easy to understand obligations and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64458	The word has a folk MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64459	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these amendments and additions to the so-called law. on the unique electoral list that lies before us today, and we MPs have the opportunity to see and Mr Sarovic initially spoke about it, allegedly referring only to the necessity to allow our citizens living abroad to enroll in the electoral list of cities and municipalities in the manner that local self-government administrations communicate and inform diplomatic and consular representations abroad. It is now obvious, Mrs. Comic, and that Serbian citizens must also know, that a great, already pre-election intention is being prepared, but the electoral theft of votes because what Tudjman did in Ustasha Croatia in 1991, apparently now intends to do with this regime, the alleged response of the diaspora and their ability to vote. I have to recapitulate everything that's been going on and remind you, as well as fellow MPs who were or weren't then, that in 2004, by amending the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliaments, it was made possible for our citizens living abroad to vote. A strict RIK instruction was given that the records will be carried out, as they are reportedly animated in 2006 when the vote on a referendum on the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then for the 2008 elections, both presidential and parliamentary, turned out to be very low in our citizens' response abroad and that all 18,093 reported abroad to vote in 26 polling stations in several countries. What, then, does the amendment and addition of this law, that is, the first member of the amendment and addition? That contrary to the Law on residence, which was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia two three months ago, you will physically do, through diplomatic consular representations of voters, or Serbs from abroad who are allegedly interested in voting, and people who live there, and even those who are in the diaspora assembly and various associations, say they are not motivated at all to do so, primarily because of the regime's treasonous policy, because of co-operation with the evil Hague tribunal, because of their treason policy towards KIM, these are their words, their letters that point to us. What's going to happen here now? You won't accept, we'll see, but I'm sure you won't, my colleague Sarovic. Now according to this article as you have suggested it will reportedly happen that a large, huge number of demands are coming to local self-government because the Ministry of this Sredkovic, the Ministry of Diaspora, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not know how many of our people live abroad. It is known that Vienna, the capital of Austria, is one of the largest centres in which Serbs live, is also known for Germany, in Russia now, has several tens of thousands of Serbs living in Moscow, not to speak further in other countries. Then without checking out, or signing out that they will not now vote there, they will register here, that the control is being carried out by the diplomatic consular office and the foreign ministry, and above all it is required that the Minister of State Administration and local self-government work. So it will create a fame that they are so interested in, that several hundred thousand of them on May 6th, on Jurdjevdan, when you plan to hold elections, as you already say, if not before, because you see the minister fluently speaking, so is this member of the 30th Law, who was mentioned earlier by Radeta, and then you will take advantage of, or steal their ballots, their voting rights on May 6th, because they reportedly better referred to local administrations and signed on to that voter's list. Please, this possibility of manipulation has shown itself in the Tudjman regime and it is now shown in this other Croatian government and government that they are doing it and are skillfully manipulating it. Why would you now, several months before the elections, and there is this 2004 law, change the way Serbs from abroad will vote? Orm to remind you, there is a lady from the ministry, as RIK explained to us in 2004 to our members of RIK. Then there was an amendment to the law and a special record was made by enrolling citizens abroad who wanted to vote if they checked out here and have a registered residence in a foreign country. Since you saw that response very weak, there were 18 and some thousands, and only a few thousand voted. At the polling post in Slovenia where there are tens of thousands of Serbs, there has not been a single polling post opened in America, and I am not talking about how many of our citizens who have lived for decades and their families are now those descendants who are also entitled to live in Chicago, they did not have the opportunity to vote there. You will now, I am absolutely sure, manipulate these alleged statements of theirs that they will indeed live in that city, that is, where they will be reported, especially in this large number of Serbs working in countries that I mentioned earlier, in Western Europe, in Germany, in Austria, which are closer here, and they will come to vote that very day. Do you think we're going to stay silent and closed-eyed in front of such a scam? It's absolutely impossible for you to implement this residence law that was passed several months ago. Another major danger, and much is said about it these days on all the media in Serbia, are citizens who have changed their place of residence or are tenants, and have not been reported because their landlords do not want to give them the possibility of a lease agreement. Several tens of thousands are in Belgrade, in various Serbian cities. They weren't registered at that address, but those who did, they weren't checked out where they reported their original place of residence. What's going to happen now? They will have the opportunity to vote both in Belgrade and in Ljubovija and in Kragujevac and in Cacačka, both because you did not comply with the Law on the residence of citizens, and the Law on the residence of citizens is also hollow. That's what we talked about when Minister Dacic was here, because he doesn't oblige the MUP, or units in cities, in municipalities to quickly make and to clear that record. Who's gonna do it anyway? The second question asked, Mrs. Comic, I can't ask you now, and there's no minister, he's the only one who could give us an answer. Does he know at this point how internal it is, as you call it, displaced faces, our Serbs who, because of the evil terror of Hashim Thaci and Haradinaj, could not remain in their hearths? We in Kragujevac, of the cities in central Serbia, have the largest number of such persons, and now to invite the authorities from the city's electoral commission in the town of Kragujevac, they cannot give you precise records. Why? Because updating and recording them at special polling stations, because they have the right to vote only for the republican and presidential elections, only takes a few days or two weeks before the election process begins. They're not not being notified, but people have no idea. We have to do this, the SRS activists, to go and invite them and tell them – at that school and that school, in Erdech, in Ilic and some other settlements in the city, you, the Serbs with the KIM who are here because you were driven from your hearths, are going to be able to vote. That response is never very big because the state isn't working systematically, it's leaving these people behind, so if they vote, if they don't, they don't care. It's only now that you won't do it, because they know you sold them and betrayed them and that you've put yourself in the service of your Western mentors, Hoopers and others who take away our kiM. My colleagues will continue to talk about these other members of the amendments and additions, but the bottom line is this, because now you explain to anyone abroad, to anyone who is in that assembly of our immigrants, or those who live there in the distance that you want to do a good deed for them, so that you can give them the opportunity to apply in a city or in a municipality in Serbia, tell you a story, what our people would say. No, you're about to steal several hundred thousand votes in the election exactly this way and precisely their fictitious enrollment and exploitation of those ballots on election day. Their response abroad at consular offices will be as low as ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64460	It's been used 11 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps today in Serbia there is no better picture than the draft laws for amendments and additions to the Single Election List Act, as well as how the inability of this government could be pictured. Listening to Mr. Markovic's statement, and I must point out immediately that the SRS is only in a political relationship with the minister, any one of the Governments of the Republic of Serbia. So personal and private relationships don't exist at all and they don't matter that much. I don't see why Mr. Minister is so angry with what the SRS MPs are pointing at, everything that hasn't been done. When I say that this is the best picture in Serbia today that depicts the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and Mr Markovic said how long the public tender lasted, seven months to register those interested in making a single vote list. So then after seven months of applying, there were only two candidates and according to his statements and one and the other were extremely unserious. His estimates for the job needed 30 million dinars, one of the candidates who had passed and accepted offered to do it for six million that was accepted, and the other said it was worth 100 million. His, once again, assessment was that the job required 30 million dinars. For example, he escaped today, or perhaps he could not talk about it, or perhaps in a particular case there was no such thing as, yet, the relationship between corruption, robbery and the kidnapping of social or state property. And then they would completely circle who today represents the government, or who is the government in Serbia. See what message is being sent to Serbian citizens? So, the government or some ministry is unable to implement a certain law, comes before the National Assembly and says, "We are making a decision to postpone this law, and to Serbian citizens who are sometimes small and small taxpayers there is no such thing." One day delay costs them a lot without talking about those who have to for objective reasons because the state or state authorities owe them to be late and much more than one day. And the government is proposing amendments to the law to finish that part of the deal. In this regard and in the same way, we can also compare another commitment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it is due by 1 November of the current year to adopt the draft budget for next year and parliament of the Assembly, or parliament of Serbia, to do so by 15 December. We don't have that. What a message it means, and this should be the meeting of the most responsible citizens' representatives, and in an indirect manner are ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is not, and it really does not work that way. When Minister Markovic said he did not believe the word, of course, to those who should finish this job, so we have even less reason to believe the word to Mr. Markovic when he says why it has been approached by amendments and additions to this law. And before I had the chance to look at the text of the Amendments and Supplements Bill, I knew it would be on the agenda of this session I couldn't imagine what might be the subject of change. So I expected it to be maybe some agency that needs to be abolished, and it's become an "in" now, it seems to me that now the President of the Republic says we're going to have to abolish a number of republican agencies, and we've already proposed this at every session and we're talking about it, or maybe we're going to introduce some agency for a single polling list. I have seen that it is neither at issue, but we have a proposal to amend and supplement the law and what is proposed can be classified into two groups by you or by Minister Markovic, very important and important issues. The first question is that our citizens who are temporarily staying abroad are allowed to express their will to want to vote both in the country and that they can report it directly to local self-government units, which has so far been the ministry responsible for the state administration. Then you say here in an explanation – to remove the dilemmas that the voters would have abroad because of the involvement of two authorities, the competent ministry and municipalities, or the city administration. It is absolutely irrelevant for citizens who are abroad to submit any request to the authority, nor does it require that they be included in the single voter list, i.e. to vote in certain elections. It's important for them to have the right to tolerate any organ. So this doesn't drink water at all, but then when we essentially analyzed why it's accessing these changes and we see that four provisions of this bill speak of the rights of our citizens who live abroad. Then, as counterpart Natasa Jovanovic has already said, so far from her experience in 2004, it has been possible for our citizens who are staying abroad to vote, we have seen that it is a small response, and precisely for the reasons it has cited, because they can feel much better about the value of the country, how much their state of Serbia has. Since they do not trust the government that currently exists in Serbia, they do not go to the polls. Now to take advantage or abuse, I'm just saying in line with the words of Minister Milan Markovic -- we don't believe in the word, so of course we Serbian radicals absolutely can't believe the word of such a government. Then someone came to the sense, and about what mood it is in Serbia, that we can make good use of, that is, abuse of the will and the right of the citizens of Serbia who are temporarily staying abroad, that this is on the day of the vote, and that you match and you want it to be in Jurdjevdan, then you will take advantage of it, is close to the initial holidays you will use to show it to the citizens of Serbia, so, of course, because of the early holidays they were in the country, they voted for the one you think they should vote for. The second reason is that you can't do a single polling list until, if the snap elections are no longer possible under the law now, but you shouldn't even be talking here in an explanation if the snap elections happen in 2011. And it is clear that this proposal arrived in the Serbian Parliament on December 6th. So it wasn't even in the explanation that it was supposed to be standing at all, but possibly if the snap elections were held in 2012. Now I am surprised, Mr Markovic claimed in 2009 that there was no reason, although we then felt that the period of two years when this law would be applied is extremely long, because we had been expecting extraordinary elections before and he knew that this job would be done in two years, when almost none of the operations that had to be taken and done were completed, and now that it was left in his statement, something else would be done and finished, now he knows that it could not be within the deadline for the snap elections, or he no longer guarantee that it could happen, or that a single electoral list would be made until the regular term for the elections. Most importantly, there is a unique polling list of both the SRS and a time when it has participated in power for a short time and the whole time thereafter has been working hard and insisting to bring in a unique voter list, because in this way there are numerous abuses and machinations that take place in the election day, sooner or later, it is precisely because there is no single voter list. Our goal is to do it, and there is no need for Mr Milan Markovic to say that he wanted to bring out all the problems that stand, so that we, because he addressed the SRS directly, would have it in mind and that at least we could do a single electoral list. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for the help he's offering. When the time comes, the SRS will make a single electoral list and remove all dilemmas and all possibilities for abuse of the will of citizens, regardless of whether their desire to trust matches the desire of the SRS to win a certain number of mandates. I don't know if the next election will try to prepare as it was in 2008. Here's a picture of the Kruševec. He says -- Serbia's democratic youth, we follow the vision, in the picture is former DS President Zoran Djindjic, and below are oil warehouses, flour and similar, and this is not just an example from Krusevic. Such examples of the SRS at the time the elections were held pointed out, and in many other places it was not what the citizens of Serbia wanted, and this is blackmail in some way and injury to Serbian citizens, or voters. But if the minister comes and any one of them says he couldn't do it, this isn't a technical question or technical law, this is one procedural law that regulates under certain conditions a very vital and important life issue, which is the right of voters to vote. He says, in two years we couldn't do it because of the banal thing because whoever signed up couldn't have done it since July when it was due, so here's the December, and then the Serbian citizens are rightly asking themselves -- is it possible to build a factory where they would get a job if one procedural law couldn't be implemented, where there's money provided for, where state and private firms participate in it as a consortium? Is this government able to open, or employ, a Serbian citizen? Well, of course not. A unique voter's list, it stands in the basic law, serves for occasional analysis. What's that? It's not just what the election results were the day the elections were held, it's what our age structure was. This problem, which Minister Markovic spoke of, is not seen and is not only seen in such a way, we have places in Serbia where the total number of inhabitants in these municipalities and the number of voters in the municipality is almost approximated, and this suggests that the age structure is very unfavourable, and there is also a red light and the Government of the Republic of Serbia lighting and how to intervene, so that something is done on other issues, such as the serious fight against the white plague. There's another problem. You are a man with many years of experience, but first of all, about the electoral lists and the elections, we in Serbia, and this shows the latest census results, we have a much smaller number of citizens than the one that is minimally needed, by law, in order to hold the election, and then they are directed to the next polling post that is often 10-15km away. Such cases exist in the place where I come from, in Ljubovija, and it seems to me that there is much more in eastern Serbia than there is. Perhaps something should be done at the Law on Elections to allow these people to vote, because the electoral right that is active, one of Serbia's most beloved personal rights, and what a large number of people announce that they will not go to elections, that they will be so-called. "white vote," let this government reconsider why that is? Of course, the people of KIM can't be satisfied with the government's relationship with them, because we keep asking for a session of the National Assembly that we're going to talk about, and you either don't have hearing or you don't want to, or you're being pressured by other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64462	It was used 13 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64463	When we were just listening to Minister Markovic's argument about this proposal to amend and supplement the law as if we were listening to an explanation for his resignation. Right, the minister was always complaining about the inability to set up this unique electoral list, and there are problems these, and they, and there was a tender, so one gave six million bids, another hundred million meant. So, all the trouble with the problem and I have the impression that in the end this argument ended with a single sentence that would read – and after that, I am resigning irrevocably so that it would actually be an adequate explanation. And this proposal for amending and supplementing the law tells us that individual representatives of the ruling coalition, who until recently swore in the EU and its values, simply begin to give up everything they believed in yesterday as some in sacred cows. They're turning their backs on something that they've recently told us is an ideal for them, so now I want them to tell us and the citizens of Serbia that they're actually criticising what didn't have an alternative until yesterday. When it comes to voter lists, I can't help but remind you of something that the Venice Commission has written to you in time regarding these electoral lists. Do you remember that Venice Commission? They wrote to you nine years ago, in 2002, at their 51st plenary session that the voter lists must be permanent, that the voter lists must be updated regularly, that the voter lists must be published, so I ask you what is the duration of your voter lists? What is the regular update of the polling list in Serbia? Can you say with certainty and confirm that there are no dead in the voter's list, that they are all listed? How is the polling list in Serbia published? As recommended by the Venice Commission. To remind you, this publication is absolutely not the same as the possibilities it sees in the voter list, whether someone is listed in the list or not. That's all the Venice Commission and many other things are predicting for you, but who will remember the Venice Commission for some month. It seems that you, from the ruling majority, have indeed been influenced by that Camelot way in many ways. Let me remind you, it's that little animal that has the ability to change colors, like the ones who were Serbian nationalists yesterday and today they're big Europeans. You know, it's a strange animal, but they say his lifetime is pretty small. (President: National MP, or Camelot to connect to amendments and additions to the Law on Election Lists or to return to the respect of Article 106 and undertake to speak on the agenda. ) The good part of the amendments to the Law refers to voters who have a place of residence abroad. It's not a surprise when it's known that voters from abroad have special specific weights for you. The specific weight, when it comes to voters from abroad, goes in two directions: materially and explicitly politically. Here, I'll say a word about this political aspect. At this point, you feel a terrible need to convince people in the diaspora to convince our people to go out and vote. Well, it's a legitimate thing, however, in various ways you're trying to follow our people's path how and how they're going to vote, or who they're going to vote for. Of course you need to convince them that they're voting for you. On the other hand, an attempt to redefine the state's relationship with our people abroad, according to people living outside Serbia in the government's term, has seen a real fiasco. It's a fact you have to admit. Their attempt to actively participate in the social, economic, political life of the Serbian state has indeed not rightly experienced fertile soil in this government. They demanded to vote on the Internet, so they demanded to vote by letters, as they did in Slovenia. We've seen that, too. They've been making numerous examples. For example, they set examples from Australia that in certain places if they wanted to vote the way you predicted they had to go 2,000 kilometers to vote. Furthermore, they complain about the possibility of replacing passports and ID cards there with them. Hundreds and thousands of examples of diaspora people presented as examples of inability to vote in the right way. A miracle then, ministry gentlemen, when in the past elections it happened that only one man submitted to Serbia's consular office abroad for the vote. With these changes and additions when these things are really about making another atmosphere, you're making it possible to manipulate the voices of these people from abroad. In addition to the unquestionable desire for more people from abroad to go to the vote and give their voice to you, however, this other side of that magnet, when it comes to people from the diaspora, is much stronger than you, and that's the material side. On the one hand, you want to take them to the polls, and on the other hand you know well, for ten years, from 2000 to 2010, the diaspora in Serbia totals a foreign exchange inflow of 28 billion euros. I'll remind you that the World Bank has much larger numbers. They say the inflow in Serbia is somewhere around 43 billion euros from abroad. These donations, gentlemen of the ministry, in 10 years, make up about 14% of GDP. These are signs that are two and a half times higher than the participation of foreign direct investment in Serbia. It is clear how important it is for you to attract these people from the diaspora, not only to vote, but at all. However, the diaspora is fully enquired and when we see these changes and the addition of the Single Election List Act -- when will Serbia's stepmom, Serbia's stepmother, become Serbia's mother abroad for them? Because they point out numerous examples, not only when it comes to their ability to vote, but also when they are able to invest in Serbia, where there are many obstacles. But I'm going to remind you, with their sudden sense of making money, they also have a keen sense of feeling like they want to take their money, take their money, and that's you. That's why it's going to be very difficult for you to reconcile this political and this material side of that magnet. The statement by the minister at the beginning of the year, I will quote it, he says – it is completely realistic that we will wait for the next elections with a single voter list. Furthermore, he says – everyone on the Internet will be able to see where he votes, whether he is listed in the voter's list and chooses where he will vote. These are literally the words of Minister Markovic. And he says today -- unfortunately, we had to show up with these changes, because if there comes a risk of the election being discussed, etc. Then he says it's just very difficult to make a unique voter list, and someone hasn't done it in the last 20 years, and he says, "For over a million local self-government voters, there are double addresses." Well, gentlemen of the government, do you hereby acknowledge that you are neither ready for extraordinary nor regular elections? What is it that you want as a message for both us and the citizens of Serbia, with what Minister Markovic said here today? I'm just saying, a lot of you are trying to convince us that we're going to have so-called eventually. It's an electronic vote. I really think that everyone is aware that we've been away from that electronic vote for a few light years, that in due course there's really nothing. I'll tell you that even in those countries where this electronic vote was put in place, it didn't show any results either. You're certainly aware of the fact that these machines so-called. For electronic voting, they are absolutely not reliable, that these machines are insecure, untrustworthy, that they have great potential for abuse, that code can be various software errors, etc. etc. So, you set up a unique voter list. You're not capable of that either, let alone tomorrow for electronic voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64464	Eleven minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Time is available to the parliamentary group for 18 minutes, since you are the last registered speaker from your parliamentary group. After you, the word has been sent by the Parliament of the People, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64465	I'm extremely glad we're talking today about the draft law on technical preparations for the theft of elections. It's not exactly written in the text of the law, but it's my free interpretation, and now I'm going to convince you, Mrs. Comic, why that is. If we look at what happened today in this room, we'll see that a government official has told us about a painful job called a tender, and then, unfortunately, there will be elections, he said, so he took a huge risk of coming here to defend this bill and he said in the end - don't let God hold elections. Kakokrits for this situation has been named "Telecom", the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and Comtrade, it is the firm of what he once jumped with the pole. Otherwise, he's a major donor of DS, Mrs. Comic. He shares computers and stuff. Mr. Markovic explained to us everything that the problem in the DS and the pathological desire to be in power at all costs and not in prison. Now I have to warn you what the development of democracy has been like for the past, let's not go back to 20 years, but for the past 11 years. By 2000, there was a problem with that voter's list, and if you don't believe me, ask Veljko Odalovic when he comes, as he was head of the corruption group within the SPS, in charge of KIM. There were other district chiefs and that Ivanovic, Popovic, etc. but not to spread the subject. What do the voter lists look like, say, a Serbian, Drenica? Name and last name and year of birth. Other lists – name, last name, village. Third voter lists – name and last name only. Rarely where they were home number, address, etc. When you look at the election material from the polling station, you see the phone wire. You know what that phone wire looks like. When they falsified the Socialists of Dacic, they circled one, two, three, four. Then 30 and something voted, but all the phone lines like this tick-ck-ck, all in a hurry. They had a tight spot. That's what I'm saying about your coalition partners. I don't have any eyewitnesses here, like Mr. Jojic, who somehow saved his life. There aren't any more people in the oven who've had a lot of trouble saving their heads, etc. So Veljko Odalovic was head of the district and he was head of the criminal group. He knows it very well, and he learned it while he was doing it – the rhombol, you know it – a lot. That's where he learned it. Furthermore, in 2000, a new Law on selecting MPs was passed and one of these newspapers was, among other things, a whole of Serbia's electoral unit, the entire opposition advocated it, was a unique voter list. It was said -- there was a unique voter list of the first elections in the single polling list in December 2000. You remember that – the transitional government, when you, the Socialists and Vuk Draskovic made those triumph over the ministries. Then Dacic was with Biserka Matic, so I wouldn't tell you what happened. When the election came up with a problem where this unique electoral list, you know who the government sent? Radet Markovic, Chief of State Security. He brought in one envelope and there was a disk inside, not this CD, but that flippy one. It says -- it's a unique voter list. Can we see? He says-- you can't see how you can see it. There were objections, there were everything and everything. And I was involved in writing a book of thousands and some sides. We're waiting for a more favourable opportunity to publish that, so there were constitutional complaints, etc. The next character that is very important for the single polling list was a certain Bakarec. He stole that CD, then the CD appeared, and fled to the toilet, and then the police had to pull it out of the toilet, and the guards were watching Milos Aligrudic and some others. That's the RIK where the DS dominated her. That's when Biserka Zivkovic cheered and dressed in the election commission. Then we heard there was finally going to be a single polling list, as prescribed by law, as a unique electronic record, where a button is touched and you get all the data. It won't depend on Pere, Mike, Laza, not the police, not the State Security, not the Military Intelligence Service, not anyone else. When you look at this triumphate that worked for the tender, you see Comtrade, military presence, Telekom state presence and Chamber of Commerce, best man Markovic, Milos Bulgaria. That's where he's at. Let's move on. Then the sun lit us up, the DSS came and she decided to solve the issue of a single ballot. The head of the company was Zoran Loncar, otherwise known as the college man. We were counting on the professor. He knows college doesn't mean he's gonna fix something. But he didn't take care of anything either. Then came this Milancic, Milance. But, Milance, whatever you catch, it's drying up. He's kind of running a dead race with Bosca Ristic. And Bosko Ristic has nothing to do with it. Who objected to the lack of a single voter list? Everyone. Even in 2003, when they participated in the elections, but not as part of a democratic party, but as a "Resist" under the control of Montgomery, Slobodan Homen and Cedomir Cupic and not to order these characters. And we've come into a situation that after two years, no single voter list has been made. It doesn't exist. And there was a need for something to change there now, to make technical preparations for stealing the election. How? Obviously, the main thing is in Article 3. Proposal for a law, which is erasing attitude 2. Now I have to move on to what should never be allowed. Now we have a situation where the government tells us, through its representative on the bill, that the government doesn't actually know that here some month ago, perhaps less, the Law on residence and residence of citizens was passed. You see, this is the law, adopted by the National Assembly on the Government's proposal. It's been 15 days, the government is making a new bill of law on some other matter, and the question of residence defines us in a completely different way. Just to remind you, the residence is a place where a citizen is temporarily staying outside his place of residence for more than 90 days. I don't know why you said that if someone wants to vote in their residence, they don't bring in confirmation that they have a place to stay? You're gonna sign him up with a place of residence based on what? It's an honor. So we will have a mass phenomenon, that man has both a place of residence and a place of residence. For example, the place of residence will be Mladenovac, and the place of Smederjevo, and there will be two copies of the list of elections. Of course, that can't happen. That's what this computer is going to throw out. This computer that Milan Markovic was complaining about. This big computer, the big information system. Keep going. With this bill, the government told us – people, we are not interested in what is written in the regulations. Here's the evidence. If you look at the Single Election List Act, you will see that the Amendments and Supplements Act is not only relevant to Article 5, 10, 15, 16, etc., what is covered by amendments and additions, but denies the basic principles of this law. Let me remind you, the polling list is permanent and is regularly updated. The bill says it's not permanent and it doesn't have to be updated. What does it say next? The voter's list is a condition for the exercise of electoral rights. Who's that genius who thought of that? How can enrolling in the electoral list be a condition for achieving something that is relatively right? Election law is relatively right. It doesn't belong to a group of absolutes. It takes citizenship and adulthood, right? Two restrictive conditions. But no, he says - enrolment is a condition for the existence of electoral rights. You see, when they start with their feet to write the text of the law. The highlight of everything is in article 1. The last position it says – the voter's list is conducted according to official duty. You, on official duty, can make it impossible for a man to have the right to vote. You put some provisions there where he can appear, that the enrolment, erasure, update, etc. is made upon his request. But when a computer kicks it out, when a computer goes crazy, you know how dangerous it is? Now let's see what was all the reasons why there was no unique electronic record of voters? In 2000, when Rade Markovic brought a floppy disc, he said – that's what we have and it doesn't occur to us to give to you. When Biserka Zivkovic, then Vasicka, when they cheered and dressed during Djindjic's government, then the reason was – we do not have enough computers in municipalities. There's no "PC" in the municipalities, so it can't be connected to the system. So there's no way to connect a computer from the Shop to the main computer in Belgrade. That was the reason. So many computer donations, probably, and this Comtrade gave some computers. Who are you trying to get here to be naive? These three of your companies that worked on this, they have a whole list of voters. The DS has another polling list and some other parties have a polling list, a final voter's list. It's how you look at what you're going to do, how you're going to make an even bigger mistake, how you're going to reverse the election results in the next election. I expected that today we would talk about the need to put the ballot aside, so that it would not happen that a man would come with a round ballot, and return an empty ballot to circle again and get 10 euros. It is those who will sell to Serbia for 10 euros, to sell to KIM. But no. Remember, when there is a choice and if there are, after the election is over, all citizens will come to control the election results. I guarantee you that, because this is where it came from. It came to this point with this pro-European government. Why did I mention the development of democracy, thanks to pro-European parties, from 2001 to today? Look who's been there. Veljko Odalović, you fought against him, and here he is again, bright and dressing. Ivica Dacic, you fought him still bright and dress. Bakarec – DSS, Zoran Lončar – DSS, Milan Marković – DS. All pro-European parties. This is a pro-European standard. What you're doing is a European standard. You can't hear the will of the citizens. No, if he can turn around. You came to power on a wave of struggles against stealing the election results. You set this building on fire, not because of the federal elections, but because of the presidents. Now, we'll probably go to temporary funding by the new year, once or twice, so if it's possible to cut costs, so that the republican and presidential elections can be combined, because apparently, without Cvetka, you can't cross the DS list. When will there be an election? When the EU says so. Now she has told you -- let's do some itching here, because it is the great mood of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia not to be seen again by the authorities. Now we need to get into this game and talk highly about what a trusted job is. The unique voter list is the original state business, the state government's business, a job that must be done by the government's competent authority. Whether it's going to be the Ministry of Local and State Administration, it doesn't matter at all, but it has to be a government job. You, what do you say? We're changing now, now all this foreign affairs isn't going to be done by the Ministry, so it's going to be passed on, no, it's going to be the units of local self-government. You also deny one member of the basic text of the law, where it is said that part of the jobs relating to part of the voter's list for updating is entrusted state business. You put everything here as a trusted job to local self-government units. Why? To steal the election, just to steal the election. You have no reason for anything else. Will there be a deceased on the list? It will be. Will there be faces that will be entered multiple times? Most of them will be like that. I don't know what you went out with, what are you doing in front of the National Assembly? In the mourning of tenders, in the mourning of Telekom, the Chamber of Commerce and the Comtrade, they don't know how to do this job? Oh, my God. How do cell phones work? Millions and millions of subscribers can connect and work. You're connected to abroad, and two computers can't connect here. Can't a computer from city or municipal administration, probably some part that's in charge of citizens' status issues, connect to a server in the ministry! So scientists are needed, so I don't need to know what, etc., etc. At the same time, the Republic of Serbia is developing its information system. It seems to me that this work on that system has been going on for 15 or 20 years, maybe more. Then it comes out here and goes with some melancholy story -- you know, there were more bidders in the tender, he asked for 100 million, we chose this one that's six, why, so you wouldn't supposedly call us, and this one at six couldn't do it. Telekom couldn't do it? Telekom could have honored you to do grace for the state. There will come a time when I will tell you about those "cold centres" that are calling citizens on the ballot. It's that mechanical answering machine. We have heard here before, however, it is an old song – an army of shorts and an army about honesty – as the citizens of some parties go around and survey them, so who pays them. Can you imagine? And they're from their party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64466	The time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zlata Djeric, and she was last registered on the list of speakers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64467	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honored President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, is not unusual that the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Single Election List, which we have adopted in this session in the same half of December 2009, is in front of us exactly half of December 15, two years later, at a time when they are expected, when they are truly manipulated, calculates and casts the public about whether there was a dinner of the prince, or whether there will be or will be no elections, and there must be very soon. According to a proposal that arrived before the National Assembly, it is first estimated that the government is not trying to impress citizens that it can seriously and undisputedly comply with the deadlines it has set for itself and that this congregation has timelessly confirmed and set. We have seven members who actually change six things in this law, and they show that the government really has a problem, or, as we say, the government is in need, in an extortion, to amend and supplement a law that hasn't even come into force yet, and should take effect in 10 days. Here is an irony – it is envisaged that the date of application of this law ceases to be valid for a total of 16 members of the Law on the selection of MPs, as well as for the sublaws to be adopted for the purpose of applying their provisions. All that has been offered to the National Assembly, no matter how eloquently and professionally the minister has tried to convince the National Assembly that at this time it is a truly brutal issue for the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia who have been manipulated many times over the past 20 years by this very notion – the electoral list, very carefully and very carefully listen to this discussion and listen to what the MPs say in these six members. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of a law which is now claimed and is trying to ensure that a single electoral list is based on which election results will be verified so that it will be some democratic electoral will of citizens, therefore, the unique electoral list will again be subject or leave the possibility of these changes and additions to the will of citizens, at least in one part, and perhaps in a very worrying part, someone plays. Serbia for such games, we fear, no more time, no more will, no desire. In Serbia, in the second decade of the 21st century, there was never more desire for elections. No matter what there is a clear and express intention of a number of citizens not to go to elections, believe me, they will come out. Never so many citizens questioned themselves, their condition, their authority, never so responsibly analyzed every political move in their innermost circles. They had no other choice and no other choice – they must. Because it really depends on it every day they do. We believe that in this way the executive authority, which has shown that it has not implemented the basics, has not adopted the basic act, has not done what it has set itself as a task, introduces and certain legal uncertainty and certain legal voids. These seven, and six are important, members of the laws amending the basic law, adopted in 2009, will not be able to support and will not support, although we will try to intervene with the amendment, as we have always creatively and well-intentionedly intervened. We're aware of the enrollment of the voter list, and we've all been in some way witnesses, numerous and always possible abuses of every government. It's natural for citizens to have skepticism, to have mistrust, to want absolute security, at least that day, that all those who come out that day really chose what was ahead of them. Because they don't care what the next period of four, maybe less years, looks like in Serbia. You know, citizens also faced European standards, and now they see that it's all one big relativity, one big mistrust. On the one hand, we have an offer of European Serbia, a European standard, that all this must be so, these are systems of new technologies, information systems, so all of this is offered but citizens want to see one clear truth. Today, I have asked my MP questions and said – many are free, they want justice and equality, as Jean Jacques Russo said. So, the unique electoral list must indeed be accurate, correct and must be represented, on the day that citizens go to the polls, then it is most important, for every citizen of the holy letter, that what is really possible in Serbia on that day is present and ready to choose those who will represent the citizens, who will manage this country and who will give them safety, life and the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64468	Six minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of presidents, representatives of parliamentary groups or someone who has not used his right under Article 96? Since no longer registered in the electronic system with a request for a word, I hereby conclude that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Single Election List and before setting a break, I remind the MPs that the Assembly has already been informed, on the basis of Article 87, that we will be working today after 1800 hours. The notification was made before the opening of the search was opened, which has just been completed. I'm setting a break from 2:30 to 15:30. The work continues with the opening of the principled review of the draft law on cinematography and when we have completed the principled review of the proposal for a law on cinematography and we conclude it, we will also finish our work today. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, in addition to the representatives of Predrag Marković, Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society, the President of the National Assembly of Dr Slavica Đukić-Dejanović invited the meeting to attend: Snezana Stojanović-Plasić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, Predrag Blažević, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, Tatjana Bojić-Jurić, independent advisor at the Ministry of Culture, Information Society and Vladimir Nedeljković, adviser at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society. Second item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE KINEMATOGRAPHY LAW You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group, to the SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit their application for the word, with the order of the Members of Parliament, because the application for the word is received until the opening of the original search, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I ask you, who has not yet done so, to provide information on the MPs who wish to address the National Assembly, while informing the National Assembly who are presidents, or authorized representatives of parliamentary groups. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Simo Vukovic, MP group United Regions of Serbia; MP Vladan Jeremic, SRS MP and MP Gorica Mojovic, MEP ZES. I ask all other parliamentary groups that if they want to authorise one of their members to represent them during this afternoon's search to deliver that information to us so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. I ask if the representative, Predrag Markovic, the minister of culture, information and information society, wants a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64470	Thank you. Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respecting the importance of film as a work of art and high reputation in international frameworks, and faced with the problems of a limited market, our country treats cinematography as a priority work. This is why we wanted to thank everyone who helped in the previous years and the previous months and the previous days, as it happens with the laws, always until the last hour, it is important when something can be improved, which helped to prove it, because it is crucial that when you advocate something and clearly, through the law, you show it and to gather it, I sincerely hope, as in previous situations when issues of the basic value of culture, protection and regulation of relations in this area, that we will achieve the highest possible agreement about it. At the same time, I thank you for doing something else this way. When the state, which means citizens' money, invested in a multi-annual project and we made sure that we now have, after 16 years of joint effort, thanks to everyone who has helped in this last 16 years, to finish the building. We have a new building, Europe's third-best wealth, fifth-best archive in the world of Yugoslav cinema. In the meantime, we managed to provide both Depo and to preserve all this wealth, and in this we kept our own and others, that it was most natural for one such large, long-term investment to end in that area from which someone who is the competent institution to keep and care for material to end and by law. I suppose that in the next period we will have to make sure that some other laws are further changed and agreed so that we can all together allow all these areas together concerning creation, but in part and protection and heritage, to be united, because it is a commitment of all and there are no political differences. It is therefore important to what extent the state will influence the achievement of the basic goal in the area of cinematography, which is the development of cinematographic activities and in the context of this process of developing its national and also world cinematography, which certainly depends on concrete and systemic legal solutions. I would remind you that relations in cinematography are regulated by the 1991 Cinematography Act, meaning 20 years ago, but social economic change and technological development have significantly affected the change of these relations, so the current law has been overcome, given that solving existing systemic problems cannot be solved by making changes and supplementing the existing law, the need for long ago to pass a new law has been imposed. Finally, the old law does not regulate or regulate in detail a number of issues relevant to this matter, such as the clearly defined meaning of certain expressions used in cinematography, the clear definition of domestic cinematographic work, co-production work and foreign cinematographic work, the possibility of specific stimulation of foreign producers, to produce foreign and co-production cinematographic works in the Republic of Serbia, the general interest in the field of cinematography and its achievement, public competition as a basic mechanism for collecting proposals for financing or co-financing of general interest in cinematography, the promotion of domestic cinematography, the promotion of film programme, protection of minors and the prohibition of discrimination, as well as a whole of other issues relevant to cinematography. The reasons for the adoption of the law on cinematography are also necessary for the systematic resolution of accumulated problems in this area, which have been caused by over-excessive legal solutions to the 1991 Cinematography Act. Then, the need to adapt to the cinematographic performance of the subject in the field of cinematography, the emerging social and economic change, I think of technological development and the need for a unique legal regulation that would cover all basic and complementary cinematographic work, modernise and make effective ways of achieving general interest in cinematography and respect the changes that have occurred. The adoption of this law would create more optimal conditions for the development of cinematography in the Republic of Serbia, the implementation of all activities in the field of cinematography, enabling incentives and support for the development of different types of cinematographic creation in the Republic of Serbia, the establishment of a database as the basis for establishing a strategy for the development of domestic cinematography and the taking of concrete mural and cultural policies in the area of cinematography. A unique record of cinematographic performances in the Republic of Serbia, enabling incentives to filter the program, stimulating the programme and modernising the conditions for screening in cinemas that have more than 30% of the total hours of domestic and European cinema works on their regular annual programme. Then fostering domestic film creation, the introduction of information technologies and modernization in cinematography. Development of cultural industry in cinema by encouraging foreign producers to produce foreign cinematographic works and co-production of cinematographic works in the Republic of Serbia. In doing so you will pay attention in this area we have applied those solutions, proposed by the working group, those solutions that have proved to be successful and which are currently in effect literally in all countries in the environment. So the incentive is done by returning up to 20% of the funds invested in recording such cinematographic works on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It turned out from the various experiences that existed in the past decades that it was both the most effective and the most stimulating and the most responsible to its own state, to those who are seriously investing from abroad in the recording of cinematography in our area. Let me just briefly remind you once again of three priorities, in my opinion personally. This law has been preparing for more than two years. The public hearing went on for over a year. A whole series of alignments was necessary because it's terribly important that this area be systemed, I remind you 20 years later. Secondly, to eliminate volunteerism in the distribution of budget resources necessarily resulting from the lack of timely economic incentive, timely competition, timely harmonisation in accordance with the Law on Culture and the establishment of full capacity of a culture institution that would particularly care, I am now talking about protection, heritage, but rather about encouraging and caring for contemporary cinematographic work. So, a whole series of things, and at the same time, care that already existing legal solutions within the body that this assembly has created, which the extra income already legally defines for the area of culture and so far ended at the end of the whole process in the film but with great delay. We have now made existing solutions and suggestions given in the meantime, and are encouraging some of you, to be able to essentially, rather than travel money, as he has so far traveled from these regulatory bodies to the budget, and from the budget to the ministry, to the establishment of culture. When money travels a lot he somehow shrinks, there must be road costs. So, here, simple solutions have been found and offered, a whole series of these solutions that will actually enable that money, which is also the money of citizens, to be as quickly as possible, more effectively spent from the point of view of those who are concerned, and we have tried and thank all the members of the working group that worked on this, and these are mostly film creators, our significant film creators, experienced and compared to the solutions that exist in the environment and in the vast majority of European countries. So I thank them for offering that kind of solution that you will have in front of you today, which makes it possible. This will certainly only provide more money for the film through the savings from the funds they have reached so far. So, only through savings, and of course it is quite clear that by regulating them and it will continuously arrive these funds, that it will be higher and the total amount, but it is more crucial that we do not waste time and thus do not slow down that area, and cinema is one of the areas where Serbia has the most success in the world. All of you are as proud as I am that we can in this way not dispute our culture, without the usual political disputes and division we represent our country and achieve success in the world. We can do that in some individual cases in sports. Of course, that is not possible in all areas, and it is very important that where we are already achieving success we show inside that we are ready to continue to invest further. Of course, clearly defining the problem of discrimination and pornographic content and child protection, it is all what is embedded in this proposal and I will be pleased to hear any kind of suggestion but I hope for the satisfaction of the entire profession, not jeopardising both the existing resources and existing institutions and the existing funding mechanisms to ensure that over 6 months, and that I am in force through eight days, as foreseen by this law, we are in a position to both the Ministry of Culture, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of this activity security and much better and greater results and avoid the usual markets that exist in this area. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64471	I'm asking if the committees want the word. No, I don't. ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to do so? National MP Vlad Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64472	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have come up with a story about an area of life where things certainly don't stand the way they should because, unfortunately, we live in a country without a national festival, a national film fund with a national council on culture and we are discussing today a proposal for a law on cinematography that, as the creators consider, will once and for all effectively and honestly regulate the decades-long state of controlled or uncontrolled chaos that exists in Serbian cinematography. By copying these European solutions and mostly French, we are coming to the question whether this really created some basis for what kind of normal functioning of our film production, whether the provisions offered by such a bill on cinematography are truly enforceable, or whether they are clear enough and precise enough to capitalise what is clearly beyond what is clearly necessary, and that is a fair play when applying all these provisions of the law to all participants in this cultural activity. Finally, whether the provisions of the law for all or perhaps just for a group of chosen ones who, like in many other spheres of society, are on behalf of some ideals and their solutions that we have to take, actually direct those funds to another side, and not where they should be directed. Reading the draft law on cinematography as it is, what is immediately imposed as a conclusion is that it will certainly never change and edit anything about financial nature, because everything that happens in cinema is happening in economic, social or cultural areas. What is terrible for us as a society and a state is that in a country without a cinema, without an adequate distribution network, with practically institutionalised piracy, you will agree with a kind of total domination of some of the most primitive content from television stations, the growing negativity of one of the widest layers of people who should otherwise single out money to enjoy this culture, which seems to me, like a boxer in some kind of nocturnal nocturnal and where the state is obviously trying to maintain, and who, without that audience, has no hope of surviving, I'm afraid that the movies will still be able to record only those who are resourceful, those who may have good connections, belong to certain groups and have some good business drugs, and that these movies will not be seen by our audiences in the future, it was obviously not primary at this moment. Once again it turns out that the film industry depends on the entire social circumstances of the country in which it should function. It's just the best example of what's left of that so-called. Serbian cinematography, because what has been suggested over the past years and decades, that one quality erosion from year to year has been growing, and it seems to me that they have culminated in this last decade. Almost no one is there, regardless of the politicality or option it belongs to, who will not agree that, unfortunately, our film is located on the lowest possible branches. One of the liquids in the past decade is that culture, with it and film art and production, is pushed to one full margin, aside. They are essentially left to themselves, facing all problems and challenges. It seems to me that there is no help for those who could be involved in all this. As far as the film is concerned, this past decade has brought absolutely nothing or nothing to our film because, as thousands of people have tasted what the market reson means, lost their jobs, so is the right to live, so in our film is a very hopeless situation. If there was ever a film that showed up in which the realization is no wonder that it exclusively dealt with these blackest or most depressing images of our daily life making a generally bad picture of Serbia. It is particularly discriminatory in both technical and craft terms, the flow of quality or quality level. So we come to the conclusion that the systematic, whether negligent, uninterested or otherwise, is practically this complete logistics, when it comes to what should exist in the production of films in some way ruined. Large production houses, studies, almost an entire cinema network have been destroyed. In a way, this scientific publishing work has been completed when it comes to film theory and criticism and production. When I point this out, I can't interfere with some of the specific examples that the public knows more or less about. You are certainly familiar with this, "Avala Film", in 2008, some estimates of value up to as much as 105m euros. It's for those of you who are a little less familiar with this problem, a once grand studio at the time of SFRY, when Hollywood spectacles were being created. Unfortunately, he is then transformed into something that has no touch points with former splendor, even before bankruptcy. I also can't interfere with the voiced desire or the thought of the recent president of the "Belgrade Film" committee, how Belgrade cinemas that are long dead would only be buried, which in translation meant that those 17,000 square metres of cinema, the business space in the most expensive part of Belgrade, bought for just over 9m euros in six-year-old wars to some tycoons, businessmen for a much larger amount, and thus we give up some cult Belgrade cinemas such as "Jadran", "Partizan", "Kozara", "Vozdovac" and "Slavica". Especially the problem of the time we live in, I'm going back to "Avala Film", the location itself, the area of land that exists and those inevitable aspirations of the builders to have some exclusive apartments, villas or who knows what. If we were to draw the line, we could hardly conclude that there is a Serbian movie today. I think it's a closer and more realistic finding that today we're just looking at some kind of imitation or scheme of these Western films that may even be inappropriate in these conditions. Everyone knows that, but it can't stop funding them. Perhaps the best indicator of the condition is that the Serbian documentary illustrates the fact that as early as 1999, 12 years old, none has participated in the official selection of the world's largest documentary film festival in Overhausen, Germany. It is appropriate to say that the local Academy of Film Arts and Science awarded its last prism in 1999 and this inspired bombing of our country to the protagonists of the political satire "The War on Truth". The problem is that it wasn't just movies that were destroyed, it was video production and distribution. Now, at the end of this decade, except in places where pirates can deal their DVX, new film editions simply cannot be found. The distributors are in agony. They've been dealing with other things for a long time, pushing debts, closing down their firms, not what should be their priority. Even more amazing is the fact that in such circumstances completely uninterested, without any reaction from local television stations, including the public service of European Serbia, RTS, who symbolically participated in some financial structures of some of our films because, and we are all witnesses, on their repertoire, domestic films, especially newer production, are indeed a true rarity. The Serbian Radical Party estimates that inconsistency, inconsistency and, let's call it a rule full of random holes, which characterise solutions from many and other areas, to appear in this bill as well. When the assembly majority adopts, I have no doubt that it will be, this law on cinematography, what is to draw as a conclusion is that some independence of this Serbian film, which was otherwise threatened to a large extent, will now be brought to some extreme limits, and that budgets, this size or that large, depending on the assessment of what little or much money means, will continue to be directed only to those projects that agree with some history and circumstances that have followed this past decade. In particular, according to the bill, the Serbian Film Centre would therefore allocate some 0.1% of the total state budget to over two competitions annually. Independent of these competitions and the Ministry of Culture would have the right to allocate a quarter of the planned funds to projects that have not been through the competitions, but only if they have certain social or state significance. Translated to the People's Dictionary, therefore, the state's financial assistance will be able to count on those creators who meet the criteria of the Serbian Film Centre Management Board or those for whom the government estimates they will benefit the whole country. So, all those others who are not exactly on positive frequencies with the Film Centre or the Ministry of Culture will obviously have to provide funding for their projects some other way. They will be forced to participate in this brutal competition. If they can convince a financier he'll be fine, if they fail to convince, of course that movie will bring money, then it won't work. So it's this cruel capitalism, a competition that's interesting, let's say, and that the party to which the minister of culture, who's otherwise stood up for a full decade to liquidate what's not going on in the market, is suddenly slightly illogically advocating, let's say, state care for certain groups of artists. And these certain groups of artists are no less than those that in the last ten years, I return to the beginning of the story, practically that they have produced no marketable culturally cost-effective work to mark the period behind us. What might be the problem with this story? The problem is that, let me call them that, the modern Serbian creators, the film makers, are obviously not from Hollywood, nor from the famous London Pinewood studio, but they grew up and stood up in the period above all, and those SFRY and what existed after that. The fact that fewer films have been reduced in Serbia today than in the case of Tito's Yugoslavia does not mean that we now do not have enough film makers who have this one relationship with the regime in the way that it was in some previous times, so those who are willing in some way to put political ideas through what is presented to the audience in terms of film achievement. The problem is that the same people have succeeded all the time so far, that from the state and society, from us citizens, taxpayers come to the satisfaction of their interests, their needs, come to money, and such a bill, if nothing else, would be able to fully legalise everything that I have talked about, or synonym for those who are very well-known to the public, starts with Markovic, Paskaljević, and so on. From all of this comes an amazing but obvious fact that we should probably face, which is that there's practically no such thing as an independent movie. What's symptomatic is that the same will in a similar position is also a European film, which is also left to the mercy and mercy of the group, allegedly, the creators' rebel, who are making more and more unsightly, pointless, and more expensive films. Unlike the Serbian public, however, European countries are becoming increasingly critical of such a situation. In Serbia, you see, by the interest of MPs, there is obviously one indifference, although it is clear to all of us that this is also about the money of the Serbian citizens, who, by who knows which time, in our opinion, will be used against the interest of these citizens themselves. Instead of being at least part of it focused on the competition, on the taste of the audience, it's obvious that our film creation will be left to the mercy of pro-European structures in the future. I will not now remind myself of the serious situation in which the Serbian cinema is located, reminding me of the participation of a direct or indirect cultural MP in some events that marked the previous period, but it is clear that the problem is what, I think one attitude that should be contrary to the state, or anti-Serbian position which, it seems, has a pretty good background in our modern culture. So then we're surprised why, let's say, Angelina Jolie decides to make a movie about the war in Bosnia where Serbs are depicted as monsters or Hollywood a little, a little bit, then throws out movies with Serbs as pretty bad guys, or maybe there's something strange about it if we have in mind the fact that some movies like "Turney" in Serbia, "The Fourth Man", "St. "Georgius kills the bad guy." I mentioned "Turkey" Goran Markovic, whom the state of Serbia has forwarded to the American Academy of Film as our candidate for Oscar, and what is unacceptable is that in that same film, members of the Serbian people appear to be guilty of any possible crime stemming from the break-up of the SFRY. "The Fourth Man" talking about Serb war criminals, etc. Or what might be the most brutal and it's "St. Georgia kills Ashdah," perhaps even the most expensive Serbian film so far, hitting on those Serb war experiences that were so far excluded from some debauchery, which is the time of World War I, proving that Serbs are the cause of all problems to themselves. Then the sad truth is that over the past decade in Serbia there has been no film played that would in a convincing, true, horrified way present the problems facing the Serbian people here and here and facing both Croatia and Bosnia and Kosovo, but therefore we have sent some achievements to the world that represent the Serbian people with an extremely negative context. The problem of cinema history is one of the main problems, since the film did not start with "Slavica", the first Serbian film was "Karadjordje", the sixth film projection in the world, the first in Serbia and the Balkans, held in 1896. Not a day today, and that's the same information that must certainly be warned, is that we don't have movies about large parts of Serbian literature. One of the examples is Andric's "On the Drina Turkey". The problem is that today the movie is going to a shopping mall and mainly to let children watch cartoons, although the first permanent cinema in Serbia opened in Somboro in 1906, that 13 cinemas worked in Belgrade in 1912, although only slightly more than 100,000 people lived in the capital at that time, while 10 cinemas were opened in Vojvodina during World War I, with 20 already existing ones. Where are we today and what do we have today? If, in addition, the fact that in 1999, I guess as a legitimate goal, NATO aviation bombed part of the Yugoslav Cinematheque containing 90,000 boxes of color negatives, it is clear why we are in this situation. To conclude, obviously we have to wait for one of the young, educated, talented creators to finally have one real and quality and bold way of dealing with the real topics that, by chance or on purpose, have remained intact in the past. With this cinematography law, I don't think it's going to be very feasible, especially in view of the plight of domestic unprivileged filmmakers, a small number of cinemas, pirated copies, poor economic situations of viewers. The question is, what can we expect in this sphere of life? In the end, I will quote Meša Selimovica – "No evil will become good only because it will be accepted by most". I'm afraid it's also the case with this cinema law, and apparently a better life can only expect us in some reprehensible term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64473	Before I give my word to the minister, just to inform the National Assembly that MP Zlata Djeric is the authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group. The word has Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64474	Thank you very much. Your Honour, of course I don't want to get into grades, it's a matter of taste, but I'd like to thank you for what's factually verifiable, and for what you've turned your attention to. Of course, I'm dealing with the future if it's the past, just to remind the facts, Avala's film is in the '90s, it's a business, it's not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture, so I guess a whole series of these things, I don't know why it's sold to which company, I really don't know. But, among other things, if such things didn't happen, this clearly defines what the area of culture is. Try to clearly define himself to protect himself and thank you for drawing attention to it, as we always have the pleasure at the end of the movie to read the story, so whatever you think we're funding, it says who funded it. Likewise, the reports you receive, or what the Assembly does, have reports coming in. It is a pleasure to remind you, we have good news for those who have not read, as many do not read the syringe, but get up and go, many have not read that the National Council, thank God, has been chosen and it works. Don't worry, the National Fund where it's kept is the biggest. We were lucky, it's nice to remind you, as a state, that these bombs didn't destroy anything in the dump. But there wasn't a depot. Fortunately, now we've built and preserved, so we don't have to rely on happiness anymore, when any kind of accident comes or something ugly historical, we're keeping it adequately. I understand, too, what happened in the movies, what technology, what relative. By all means, what matters to me, the pleasure of telling you before the report arrives, and it will arrive in the Assembly, the Ministry of Culture has co-financed and will be in the coming year. Now it's co-financed 10, equipping 10 cinemas. Otherwise, that's what's common in Serbia, sometimes we have better luck than brains, all the ugly things that happened, it happened in part technologically, and one part for other reasons. Otherwise, we'd have to, like all serious countries, change our technique completely, because the movies are going to show differently. Now it's a "HD" technique and it's not possible. Fortunately, we made 10, and in the following year another 10, step by step. It's important that we have partners here, and partners are local self-government, cultural institutions, those who are most interested. I suppose you'll all support it together and in the future that the funds are being spent that way. When it comes to 100 years of film, it is my pleasure that now that it is 100 years of the first Serbian film, we can do it. And now I'm going back to what you just did, and you'll have information about the National Fund in this report. Fortunately he exists, but not as a national, but I was able, thanks to such a rich fund as the Serbian Cinematheque called the Yugoslav Cinematheque, because we are not ashamed of history, but rather, we call things what they were called. If they have a longer history, we call it by that name as it came from. So we were able to find the film inside, and I personally handed it to the Secretary-General of UNESCO, Mrs. Bokov, and that film moved the Bulgarians three years from now. Bulgarians celebrated 100 years of Bulgarian film. They had information that the first film was made in 1911. The first film in Sofia was made in 1908, Patek made it. We could give it and thus Serbia would move the beginning of the history of the Bulgarian film. You can think of how we're just guarding, thank God, ours and from all over the region a fortune. This law is for this reason, and I helped about one amendment, that what was defined in the Cultural Goods Act, and as regards cinema, we return here additionally and to insert a few more technological new facts in order to continue doing this and then to be able, with the technology we create and invested this year, to enable, and it was not possible to just preserve the film "Karajordje", it was necessary to carry out its cleaning, conversation and digitisation, so that it could be available to everyone. Now it was presented a month ago and as you can see, and it's my pleasure, you're passing, I suppose, both you and many of us, by a building close to the Ministry of Culture. We're proud of it. Now Carajordje is on the big banner, just with the information that we've got what we can do. We created conditions, and we created them together with our partners. I have to tell you, in the previous period, and in all previous periods, don't think that only the state was worried. Read now that he has these retro films, so you'll see back there that he's helping the film, and the state is just co-financed, even in this law he's only co-financed. They always have to be resourceful, both producers and filmmakers. Of course, no law can regulate that. Read it, and you'll see a whole series of those social firms that helped. Now you'll probably have to find another way. It is important that these funding funds that are initial are the most stable. I sincerely hope that's what we can do. Thank you again. Just to remind you, it may not be correct, but I understand and I have my aesthetic attitudes you have, but others don't share. When I was in Moscow a month ago, the Days of Serbian Film were presented in Arbat. I don't know if any of you know Moscow, and it's downtown. Miss Jovanovic knows that. Nothing's changed yet. People have been standing by to see the achievements of Serbian film, now in recent years. The hall's full. They also welcomed the films Paskaljević, Kusturica, Bajic and the film "Montevideo", and I forgot the director's name. So for each of these films, it was a huge interest. It's been a pleasure, and thank you, you're right. It's that individuals are important when you get confessions. Yes, I own that project that he won for the gold palm script in Cannes with these spaces. Thank you, we don't have to point that out right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64475	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64476	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for 15 days in the second century Serbian cinema, and as my predecessors have already said, we have marked the first century, or 100 years since the presentation of the first Serbian and Balkan film, the Life and the work of the immortal leader, Karadjordz, directed also by immortal Cic Ilija Stanojevic. This year 2011, a decision by the Ministry of Culture was declared the year of the film. Isn't there a better way to end that year by finally passing the law for this area, the Cinematography Act? Why do we need this law, I'd say, one of the most important laws in the field of culture? Because, as we have already heard, this previous 20-year-old is because in Serbia, culture and cinema everything has changed, only the law remains the same, so to speak, inapplicable. It's important for us to pass this law because in this area too, we need to establish a system, rules, procedures, to avoid chaos, improvisation, improvisation, resourcefulness. Sometimes it's not bad, but it's not systematic. It is important for us to pass this law because we should not be among the last in Europe to have the law in line with the social, economic and technological changes that have occurred in the world. We owe this law to talented screenwriters, directors, filmmakers, editors, actors, composers, all those who work on Serbian film, and we owe it to an audience who loves film. It is important to pass this law because we are in the field of cinematography and in the field of film as a country have had significant successes, significant results, world-renowned authors and numerous awards that have taken their works. That's why, like anyone else who's interested, and doesn't have to be very interested in the movie, I'd like to get answers to some questions, if not everyone, and best of all. Number one, over the year in Serbia, how many films, how many domestic, how many foreign, and how many producers? Two, will after Rafe Fynes, whom we had the opportunity to meet in the halls of our home, come to us, for example, Bruce Willis, to make his film "Die a Man" part, or some other producer, or will he go anywhere near Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary? Under three, how are the funds allocated from the film-making budget to which they were allocated, based on which criteria and who decided? Under four, what money, other than budget, is a Serbian movie financed? Are there any foreign funds, any donations? Five, where in Serbia, and even in the world, do these films we gave money for as a state, at which festivals? Did they get any awards there, some confessions, and, among other things, what are the movie awards that we as a country have, as is otherwise known to have a lot of awards in culture, do we know how much we have when it comes to film? The sixth question - when will the movie premiere be able to show up on TV or buy it on DVD, but not pirated? Under seven, in Serbia, apart from the production of films, will some dinar be invested in the restoration of cinemas, their modernisation? At eight, do you know how many viewers really, not propaganda, have every movie recorded, how many tickets have been sold to, to whom this income goes, does any of that income go back to the budget, or whoever co-financed the film from the budget? Under nine, is it in art, even in film, and the one that's in public display, exactly everything is allowed? Ten, who's going to and how to do all this stuff in the cinema area? Here are my ten questions, and I'm quite confidently telling you that we will get answers to all these questions if we adopt the law on cinematography. We'll know, of course, the answers to some other questions. We'll know what our goals are in this area. We will know that our goal is to encourage and produce and distribute films, that our goal is to preserve the continuity, freedom and diversity of film creation, everything that is written in Article 10 of this Law. We'll know the answer to how many films were made, whether they were exported, where they were shown, and all of this I've asked through the questions, because Article 20 provides for the film centre to keep a unique record of all cinematographic activity. We will know whether, or not, I think that thanks to Article 7 of this law, which predicts that a foreign producer, who shoots on Serbian territory, can return up to 20% of the funds invested, we can therefore expect some next Rafe Fynes, perhaps again him, perhaps another producer, and that we may be a little more competitive than the countries in the environment that have the same incentives for foreign producers. Since money issues are always the most important issues, this time, when this law begins to apply, we will know how these funds will be shared. It's in article 17. It will be shared on the basis of a public competition, twice a year, a commission of five members, a proposal, a decision, a board of directors. And we know, thanks to Article 18, where those funds will come from. I am sorry that my colleague Vladan Jeremic has now come out, he must have an old version of the law, no, there will be no 0.1% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia. The funds for cinematography will only be from that elemental basic part of the budget, other funds will be provided from television subscription and parts of taxis and fees for broadcasters and operators, of course, and from the provision of certain services on the market, donations etc. So, first of all, it's not going to finance the film, and it's not going to finance itself, as we've heard, a similar film, or a movie, but what it says in Article 17, which points out to originality, authenticity, persuasion, etc. It's all very well written in article 17. In these criteria. I'll tell you right now, no confusion, no additional charges for financing cinematography. All that's listed in this law are existing obligations from which part will stand out for film. What is very important, except for making films, again on the basis of Article 17, will be invested in other areas of cinema, because once a year a competition will be called for those other areas, so that they will be able to compete with cinemas, especially those who are at least 30% of their repertoire so that they have a local and European film on it. We'll finally know how many cards, how many viewers, because every card will have to be marked and the moment it's sold, and that's Article 25, it'll be recorded at the electronic information center of the film center. So, this film centre, the cultural institution, which we have just established in the preparation of this law as a national institution of culture, will do all the professional work for the cinematography field. I also asked whether everything is allowed in art in this area, the area of film, as is said otherwise. Well, it's not. It states in Articles 26 and 27 that the protection of minors and the ban on discrimination and the ban on inciting violence and insults of human dignity are also foreseen, but that other authorities will deal with it, as are the laws dealing with this matter. Right now, I have no illusion, and I'm guessing no one, that this law will solve many problems piled up in the field of cinematography. They don't want this law... Please, Madam Chairman, I'm not interrupting anyone while he's speaking, so you'll make sure I'm not disturbed by my fellow MPs. (President: Keep going.) ) Therefore, this law will not solve some of the difficult problems in our cinematography, it will not bring us back privatised cinemas, but thanks to it it will allow, as I have already said, to invest in the restoration and modernisation of these cinemas. It will not solve the problem, as counterpart Jeremic said, "Avale Film", but this law creates conditions to restore and improve the technical base of Serbian cinematography. This law doesn't deal with tax breaks, but it does, and I'm really going to point out this time, because there are confusions about it too, there are other laws that we don't have enough use for. So, the Law on corporate tax on legal persons, last year this assembly adopted an amendment that allows every company from total income, if it wants to, to single out up to 3.5% for culture, and the regulation also allows for cinematography, so that what it gives for culture is calculated as expenditure and does not pay taxes. The same member of the 15th law predicts that every company, which 5% invests in advertising, and the film can most often be used as an ad for individual businesses, also goes into expenditure and is not subject to taxation. Therefore, I think we should apply not only this law, we should bear in mind that with this law in agreement, the Law on Culture and the Law on Donations and the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Law on Public and Private Partnership, which we also passed in the Assembly a while ago, as well as the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods. We really just need the movie law. I hope that this time, as has been shown in previous times when we had cultural laws on the agenda, there will be no politicisation, that we will discuss the subject, that we will talk about the subject of the law and that all of us, who really think well of Serbian culture, this time and Serbian cinematography, in the day of voting, will give our vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64477	13 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group have been used. The word has Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64478	Thank you, Mrs Mojovic. You're one of the members of the group and you've contributed a lot, so there's no reason extra, but I'd like, because of what we've discussed together so far, to draw attention that it's important that we know what's written in other laws. Thank you for paying attention, because this allows, among other things, if you have system solutions and if you know what legal solutions are, then all you have to do is keep an eye on them. Then it's possible, you saw what it's like when the laws are at stake, there's a public debate going on, so all the experts work, everyone who's been doing it for years, then the night before everyone starts reading, so many people read with fear in their eyes. Sometimes I make a joke, they don't read the story, so they don't see who financed everything and who won all the awards at the end of the movie because we're leaving. They don't read what happened here either. Let's say, we have fear, and that's my obligation, because, as you know, in the description of jurisdiction, I care about the media and the creation of conditions based on legal assumptions to help the media too, so I heard somewhere in the passage that someone is worried because they think that the body, which you otherwise formed, RRA, is going to increase the fund or increase the funds, and they're not going to do any of that. There is no reason for this law, but there is good news. When you have that organized area, then you have to keep an eye on how money is spent. Among other things, I called on the president of the RRA Council and one member to explain what it was and the result was that they informed me that this year the RRA would save, therefore, more by the laws that you have passed. Then it ends both health and social and culture. So, we just informed them that they saved 200,000 euros by simply moving into cheaper rooms. I'd like someone else to look up to. Secondly, I'm not sure it can still be reduced. We just have to work together on it. When you have something system-set, then it's just a matter of checking how it works. Now conditions or preconditions are being obtained for some other areas to be systemically arranged. It's a pleasure to talk about it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64479	The word has been issued by MP Zlata Djeric, the authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64480	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, here, after a more heated public debate and a lot of public reactions, perhaps even too prominent, is this law, which, above all, was long awaited by all the protagonists in film art, or cinematography in Serbia, finally before the MPs and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I know how individually our distinguished artists have advocated this law, and you, Mr. Minister, know how to pass this law. Here, we as a parliamentary group have read very carefully all 40 members of this law. We have submitted the benefits of, of course, amendments, which we expect you to have an understanding of, because so far we have always been well-intentioned when it is possible to improve some legal project that comes before the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia So cinematography in Serbia is not a young branch of art, and it has finally welcomed that there is a lot of things that has been done in it by system law. This isn't the end of it. There's a lot more to be done in practice. Why did I need to talk about this law? Because, first of all, I come from a city that is one of the beginners of cinematography in Serbia, because my fellow citizen Bosnjak Ernest in 1906 began to show the first in Somboro silent films, in 1925 to show sound films and he had one tendency, or one idea, which unfortunately did not live, but we are equally proud of her and that she lived, that Sombor became European Hollywood. If that were the case, the whole of Serbia would be very different in cinematography right now. But precisely because we inherit such an idea and such a good intention, we needed to read this law carefully, to recognize it, and the good intentions of the promoter and the desire to arrange this area. We believe that this is not finally, that it will need, of course, to change a little bit more, and this is one of the laws that will probably suffer alterations and additions, but I hope, in any case, that it will be more quality, above all, for those adversaries in cinematography, because the Serbian film represents a personal map, an etnopsychological and artistic, of our nation. The Serbian film represents us in this modern time, in this modern art, really in front of the whole world and has a mission to speak in our reality in an artistic way and to show us the way we want to be shown in the world, and that's exactly what you were talking about, how much interest there was in Moscow for our film. Of course, Slovenian peoples have special sensibilities. We recognize in cinemas of various schools, Italian school, French school of film, so Serbian cinema is recognized. We're all really proud of that. Expecting that the minister in our amendments and probably all the colleagues who have submitted, we will discuss it very closely here, recognizes what this law will further advance. Indeed, I think the law on cinematography needs to reduce politicisation to the minimum possible extent, such as all the laws in culture. I think the minister really has a serious understanding of that. It should be contributed that our culture, which may be our most significant foothold, is not sufficiently recognized, is always denied in culture, we all know that, when we start saving, first of all, we cancel all possible donations, so that there will be really broad understanding and significant support, first of all, because this is art whose expansion is coming, which here is very important, which is not young in Serbia and which has so far represented Serbia in the best possible way in the whole world. Really, thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64481	Four minutes from the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group have been used. The word has Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64482	I just want to thank you for your correct approach. We'll look at the amendments and, of course, as in the previous case, but I'm asking all of you together, so we had three laws a few months ago. There were very correct, carefully acrybic amendments written. It was a pleasure to help them adopt. All the groups supported the law, just forgot to come and vote. I just want on this case, I'm sorry it's you, and there could have been someone else who kept the laws last time, if you want something to change in culture for real, and all the last decades, we're not the exception, it's been cut off often, so let's show that these are the things we don't share about. When the legacy is kept, when we create system bases for future preservation, when we introduce the criteria that reduce, they certainly cannot disable it, I fully agree with Mr. Jeremic and with Mrs. Mojovic and you, they cannot disable it, but at least reduce the possibility of individual influence of taste and leave the taste of time, but they allow technologically to create a basis. Please, it's good for citizens to, unfortunately, not look enough at the Assembly, but when they look at it to get that signal. Thank you if you're willing to do that in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64483	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64484	I'm going to talk about this law on two specific topics, and how you defined here, the general interest, how they finance and record selling tickets as particularly important topics that others have not spoken about, but you've encouraged me to say two things, very important, whether or not the opposition should vote when you adopt one of the amendments that supports the law. I will also explain what you call saving those 200,000 euros for the rent of Rattel, but above all, I want to say that this law is late. It was necessary for Nik Jovanovic to buy all the cinemas in Belgrade, to enable him, and his name included the mantium of white collars, where small participants in the stock exchanges, for example in London where he worked and worked in the corner, which is otherwise forbidden to work, represented the extra experts who adopted, passed the laws from the financial sector, whose devastating consequences are still being suffered today. When you mention someone's cinema, the first association is a movie, the next is a cinema, and behind it all - Nik Giovanni for small money privatized the cinemas. Today they are gone, and to me it is the first association that this man has sought and unfortunately this government and this parliament have abolished the action fund, changed its name to Actional, and that's what the gentleman was looking for. I've been showing here and I still have this interview at the Economist, where the gentleman is very angry that someone in the name of the state has asked the question of mastering the rest of the state capital and the former social one through an agency that has done a lot of bad things. We realized this anger by Nik Jovanovic on the Action Fund here by abolishing Action and translated into the Action Fund, which was called by the DRI by reprivatisation of the funds of the budget, where once sold through privatisation, through most of the money disappeared in cross-border gloves, the state has now emerged as the re-owner who signs the debts for contributions, signs interest and becomes the owner of shares and shares in such businesses. Do citizens benefit from that? We're witnesses, because that's what the standard and the state of industry and the economy is about. You may now think it's not about the subject, but it is, because a law like this, I'll even criticise, too wide-ranging general interest, and that part that was really necessary was really defined by the general interest, we wouldn't be talking today about that there aren't even market elements of business in cinematography, but there's no area called cinemas of sound and famous names, as they said. So we're late. It doesn't go on your soul personally, you've been a minister since recently, but it goes on to the soul of this government. More to tell you about one elemental thing, you can't say – Ratel saved 200 thousand dinars because it came to a better space. Say, he spent 200 grand unnecessarily until the day before he went to a cheaper space. You know why you should say that? Personally, I, and many colleagues beside me, were asking questions, making public contracts on this enormous lease and on the adaptation of space, independent of which the parliamentary groups were coming, but for a long time we had to talk about how you would commend them for saving today. Will someone have to give up part of the subscription revenue to invest in this area? You say no, and I say yes. Now we're going in line on the laws. I don't know. You might say that there's too long in public a term of production, distribution. We shouldn't throw out now, because we're used to it. If we are obliged by some rules to use good Serbian words, I will begin with Article 1. The proposal to tell you that it was necessary to say that this law regulates production, transport and public screening of films, as well as other issues of importance for the performance of cinematographic work. You must first of all tell us by this law that you clearly edit production, traffic and public display. When you reduce the subject matter of the law to general interest in this area and that's the basic reason for the adoption of this law, you leave space for someone, I don't say to someone specific, but someone who's inconceivable that what you've called a general interest is a good thing to do under a monopoly, and then use it later, and we know that the abuse of monopoly goes to the benefit of the service user. I don't think that's right either from the aspect of the law or the Constitution, and not only does it take linguistic production and distribution to replace the words of production and traffic, but you really need to make sure you know what the subject of this law is. Also, the producer has no reason not to call himself a manufacturer. I'm curious to know what you called Article 5 here, or did you arrange the issue of co-production? I'm even less aware of why you've defined that such films are funded from the budget and you've defined it with several of the following members of the law, but it's a basic definition of where co-production is mentioned completely unclear and illogical. If the highest allowed participation of the majority partner is 80%, then by force of mathematics the participation of a minority partner can be, or cannot be less than 20%, it doesn't matter if there are more, but that's 20%. Also, if the participation of a minority partner is at least 20%, the majority by mathematics cannot be greater than 80%. What kind of a new speech is it? I don't understand Serbian and I'm trying to get it back into understandable categories. In Article 7, define incentives for cinematographic works to be recorded, i.e. products in the Republic of Serbia. We are slightly correcting this proposal of yours where we are asking that the producer financed from the budget can be paid up to 20% of the total film resources spent on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but which are paid to domestic legal or physical persons or state bodies, in accordance with a special act of the Government and within the means available for these purposes. Let me tell you why this has to be specified like this. You think shooting here alone leaves income in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's not true, there's going to be a mixed enterprise for that case and again the funds will go there for co-production and for someone outside and there's absolutely no possibility of a domestic legal or physical person getting paid, if not partial and full. I agree with you that money doesn't travel long, because it gets tired and sweats out on its way, so it shrinks until it reaches its end. For this reason please note, Article 7, to specify that what goes from the budget is actually paid to domestic legal persons. The key amendment that we have submitted to Article 10 where the general interest is defined. In the area of cinematography, general interest can be considered to be the production of domestic cinematographic works of particular importance for cultural development. Maintaining the cultural identity of domestic cinematographic creation, presenting domestic cinematographic works on significant international events and maintaining significant domestic and international cinema events in the Republic of Serbia. For these purposes, funds should be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and from other sources, in accordance with the law. As you provided the 10th general interest, it is so widely covered that you literally meant the entire cinematographic activity and all its parts. The overall activity of cinematography by these members of the 10th gets the character of action of general interest. I don't know if the lawyers who helped you do this law have read the laws that deal with the regulation and regulate this area of general interest, because the general interest can only be called the action that is of strategic interest to the Republic, and those actions that provide the necessary conditions for the life of citizens and the achievement of human rights and freedoms, as well as the functioning of the economy and state bodies. Tell me where you can find a place to take the whole cinema under the influence of general interest. Such jobs certainly do not include the development of a cinema network, neither does the combined sale of tickets for cinemas and other activities that you listed in the proposal, as a general interest to be financed from the budget. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? Can the development of a cinema network be something that's going to be financed from the budget today, and after the introduction I gave, why don't we have movies today? As they were privatized, no one kept their activity in the privatisation, he did not oblige the new owner to preserve that activity. It doesn't comfort me that he's in the investigative process, the procedure and I don't know prison or anything else, the damage exists, you don't sanction this, but you predict that now from the budget we finance what can't be financed from the budget. Cinematography is, not for me, beyond what I've told you must be of general interest, numbered decadent, cinematography is economic activity, like any other. If you keep her like this in a defined law, you literally put her in an unequal position of another economic activity, because you gave this one a privileged position. Think about it. Furthermore, I don't think you've defined, for example, what is the cancer of this society's wounds, conflicts of interest, related persons through income, through appointments, through influences, and especially in areas with less or more rights of objections, in the way and criteria of how funds are obtained. In Article 13, I think that you should define the members of the central authority and the associated persons so that they cannot have a share and management rights in legal persons dealing with production, traffic or public display and are concerned with action on conflict of interest. I am particularly speaking because the work done by the Serbian Film Centre and the powers associated with the financing of their budget operations, we believe that this provision that makes it impossible to conflict the interests of the members of the Centre's body must be contained in the law. The introduction of a single record, Mr. Minister, all that cinematography needs as a unique record is not slow but why it should be financed by Serbian citizens from the budget. Yes, you define the general interest so in a wide procedure and then you need citizens to finance the records you say – a unique record of cinematographic activities in the Republic of Serbia and its management, etc. There should be a new administrative job that needs to be out of such a hollow, distracted, at the bottom of the rest of the stock barely even pensions are funded, and you want us to finance those records. This record creates additional obligations and costs for entrepreneurs, and we all advocate and acknowledge how much they are burdened and we advocate to dissipate excess procedures and unnecessary costs, but you add new ones. I think it's completely contrary to what you're publicly up against as well as yourself as a government, and obviously it's just a day-to-day password, when you say we cut costs, cut regulations, let's give unnecessary procedures, spend so much and so many million euros, let's unburden the economy. Finally, in Article 34, for the lack of data that this record, which Serbian citizens should pay, if no data is provided, you prescribe a fine of two million dinars and a ban on carrying out a three-year activity. Only in the state of Serbia for the smallest offence is the store closed or anything. So only from a state-run company can be charged with income, taxes, contributions, etc. In Argentina, closed factory workers opened up to organize productions, and only with us are strikes against bad conditions, factory closures or shops. So neither this record should be on the burden of the citizens, nor the one who has no record of that record should pay this kind of capital punishment. You're making a chain round here that turns, turn who it costs, both at the beginning and at the end, citizens, tax collectors, those who fill the budget, those who finance both the state and this assembly and the police and education and health and culture and everything else. These aren't some other citizens. Article 18. The proposal, we came to the one who saved by paying too much, and we all warned about it, the space he was sitting in. In Article 18, please look closely and carefully at point one, delete points 2, 3 and 4, because it's contrary to what everyone else is, not everyone, but some I've heard, understand that there's no new charge, but there's a cinema going to be financed from what's already there, in order for someone new to take the place, someone old has to withdraw. To give someone money from an existing cake, someone has to cut some of the cake. It's the laws of physics. And money is worth the laws of physics. Where the laws of physics did not apply, the global crisis began. The Law on Radio Diffusion and Electronic Communications stipulates that the funds from the subscription are used to finance Serbia's broadcasting institution and that the fees from points 3 and 4 are what I'm talking about, are used entirely for financing RDA or RATEL, as well as to determine the levels of planned costs and to provide the missing funds from the budget. If these funds are used to finance cinema, then there are only two options. Either to increase the fee, the already existing or to make the radio-difuse agency, RATEL must give up the works of their incomes. At the end of the line, it's a spill-over of funds that I've explained for a little while, to burden these citizens or taxpayers but specifically those in the area of telecommunications or all taxpayers. You also have to bear in mind that the different regulation of questions, the same question, but according to various laws that you are doing here because of the way you finance and determine general interest, simply violates the principle of rule of law and legality and the Constitutional Court should repeal such provisions. Now, the question, because of the last item of the agenda, where some new powers are given to the Constitutional Court, privileges, such as this anti-corruption agency, which is then stimulated, when the government gives it such privileges, rights, large wages, new buildings, and then it only goes after the opposition and the party whose party you're not a member, but you were also considered an opposition, so seven parties, for some meaningless things, have received criminal charges. But not the ruling party. So those who need to protect the law, or fight corruption, understand those who finance them. Now, the Constitutional Court, when it is offered and honored with such privileges, is the question whether what is now being treated by law unconstitutional, will be assessed, but until we pass this law is wrong, nor is it in accordance with the Constitution. So the unique record is still there in article 20 you treat, I'm not going to repeat it, I'm just going to say two more things about the restriction of traffic and the public showing of co-financing...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64485	The time foreseen for an authorised representative has been used. Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64486	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. I'm afraid I won't be able to answer that. I've tried to give you a mime, I don't know if anyone has turned your attention that since you're left, right, due to temperament, you can't hear every word, but I can see that you didn't hear me well either, so you wouldn't be wrong. So, not Rattel, RRA. I apologize if I led you to the wrong lead. Yesterday I spoke with the president of the council and a member of the RRA council and they informed me. Just so there's no confusion, and this is all I apologize for not being able to answer what I haven't heard, and since I realized that you're accessing well-intentioned... Yes, the fact is that when we write laws we have, I consistently advocate and thank you, I think I've heard you well, that's to take care of the lexis, but there are certain, where we're headed for mutual co-operation, we have to respect not only the lexis, the usual terms, but also the descriptive terminology that is floating, it's often said, because it's taken over from one area to another, so it's applied. Why does it matter? To simplify the possibility, first of all, of these co-productions, in joint competitions with different partners in international... . So, Serbia is fortunately able and has great people in culture and very easy and fast, except when there are systemic obstacles in the country itself or some area is not systemically solved, so no one is adequately competent, as the Serbian Film Centre lost it somewhere in the 1990s, then after 2000 again, so the set has now created the conditions that you can really provide, so only this law will define itself, so according to the Culture Act that you have brought will be possible and call a contest to choose. The government has full authority to determine something in the future, except in situations where something hasn't been solved in the previous period, all of which, I'm not speaking politically here, I'm simply talking about organic relations in the system. So we manage to secure our partners and resources quickly. I guess that's why we get so often awards and recognitions and what's more important, ratings, so we manage to promote the values that we hopefully care about more and more, but the fact is, I've been doing it on several occasions, I guess that's why you've expressed doubts, the terms used are the result. So, if there were no misunderstandings, returns, so as not to be late to report, some of them are unusual to me, but certainly there is no monopoly on co-financing. So I hope you're standing by to talk about a kind of monopoly all the time. So, in co-financing, we're only talking about those preconditions that the state can be interested in helping, and there really isn't any new funding being asked of citizens. It's very important that it is, because that's why I've given an example, there's no other money than citizens' money, and if you can't create extra money with fast and sudden investments, we're all aware of that, and that doesn't make a difference today's moment from the previous moments, it can be saved. It is terribly important that we support ways to save money and support those who have saved money. There are no new procedures, and thank God that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64487	I thank the minister. The word has Mrs Tabakovic on the basis of the replicator seems to have not been heard well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64488	I thought you didn't hear well because I've been seeing you for years, probably hearing you, but it's a microphone. How now that temperament this little left, little right, I don't know, but it's not the question of this law. My recommendation is that you get a stenogram and you can see the objections. I apologize to this institution that saved it, and we didn't mention it, or we misrepresented it, but there's room for savings with all the agencies that cost what they got to do as a monopoly from the state, they set it wide compared to what they're really doing and they provide services to the citizens. It's the only place I'll agree with you. Mr. Minister, where you of all remarks that the overall cinematographic activity is defined as a work of general interest and that the budget needs to finance a network of cinemas, the collection of cards that are recorded, the film, so where in the world it has to write a film and how much it costs and everything else, you find me just to answer a lesbian producer or something like that. Gentlemen from Europe, French, all of us, here, let the MPs, first advise – never let when one day you are members of the EU to deliver translations to you in any other language, except in your own language, because a people who do not keep their own language does not keep their roots. That you as a publisher, whom I greatly appreciate, would have to know. This agreement, thank God, the translators have many, but the preservation of language is important in every place and everything, but this law has much greater shortcomings, and these are: general interest, way of funding, too broad definition and records and criminal provisions, as well as those prohibitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64489	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word has a minister again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64490	Thank you for making this clear. I really couldn't answer anything I didn't hear. I'd certainly answer some of that, but some of that, anyway, I'm asking everyone to check the accuracy of some allegations. Of course, it is my pleasure that all those who come from Europe in the meantime are propagating one of the basic rules, which is the preservation of identity, something that we stand for all the time when we represent it in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64491	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search, submitted an application for a word in writing with the order of MPs by the SRS parliamentary group. I give my word to the MP, Mr Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that this law does not care enough about the protection and preservation of Serbian film heritage, including the protection of Serbian identity. I'll quote Article 2. A bill that speaks of actions that contribute to the development of cinematography. Article 2 "The activities that contribute to the development of cinematography are the education and dissemination of film culture, the improvement of the authorial, theoretical and practical relationship towards cinematography and the popularity of film and other audio-visual works that make up the history of Serbian cinematography." According to us, it is illogical that among these actions, among these priorities there is no protection of Serbian film from physical destruction and from oblivion. This is particularly surprising, given the fact stated by Mr. Minister, when it comes to institutions dealing with the preservation of film heritage, the cinema certainly belongs to the world's most prestigious institutions. Our second observation is that the proposed legal solutions do not in any way encourage the shooting of films with the topic of Serbian history, about significant events and figures from the history of the Serbian people, but also about figures from the history of national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, the English, the French, the Germans occupied America first. After that, they executed a genocide that killed 10 million Indians. After that, those who survived put in reservations, took away property worth maybe thousands of dollars, and then earned another few thousand billion dollars by shooting and selling movies to celebrate the crime. Of course, in those movies, the Indians are bad guys, so the victims are bad guys, and the redcoats are positive personalities. So the Americans made one global philosophies and cultural brand out of the crimes they committed. Serbs were unable, among other things, to make 10 films over the past hundred years on a heroic tragic epic of the Serb people in the First World War. I remind you that we have a bunch of short, long-played movies about criminals and murderers from Belgrade and other streets, about the main heroes of the book "See you in the obituary" and similar, but that is why we don't have any of the only films played on Saint Sava, one of the greatest Serbian educators and statesmen. Also, we have dozens of our domestic films in which Serbs are presented as thugs, as lunatics, but within 60 years, Serbs have failed to make one single film about the Jasenovac camp, a film that killed 700,000 people, including 40,000 children. I also remind you, and therefore the situation in the Serbian film industry can be seen, among other things in the area of legislation, that we do not have a single feature film on the only Serbian literary work that has won the Nobel Prize for Literature. Of course, I'm referring to the novel "The Drina Turkey" by Ivo Andric. We still don't have a single feature film about the biblical death of the Serb people in Kosovo, about the loss in Croatia, in BiH, but that's why we're giving out money from the budget to make films such as, I think it's called "Turkey", in which Serbian soldiers are literally represented as lunatics and butchers. So, we in the SRS believe that the law on this area must have solutions that will encourage the shooting of films that will affirm and forget Serbian cultural heritage, Serbian history, significant events from the history of the Serbian people, but also the history of national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Article 7. This article provides that foreign producers who make their films on the territory of the Republic of Serbia can be paid 20% of the funds, meaning one-fifth of the funds they spent on recording and that money will be paid out of the budget, so that's the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We from the SRS are against this solution. I remind you that in the film world, the Republic of Serbia is already in force, with this new speech, for a destination that is among the cheapest in the world to film high budget Hollywood films. Foreign producers here are waiting for very cheap locations where they make movies, waiting for very cheap facilities, very cheap actors and even cheaper stats. And all we have to do is pay for them to make movies. What does that mean? I'll try to illustrate one case. For example, Angelina Jolie comes to make her second movie about Serbs as alleged criminals. I remind you that she has already made the first film, which is the film "Earth of Blood and Honey" about the war in BiH, in which she speaks in the worst possible way about the Serbian people. Spend Anja's spit on Serbs, say 50m euros. Then the lucky woman earns another 500m euros for the sale of the film, and saliva, and the Satanisation of the Serbian people, and then the Republic of Serbia from its poor budget, I guess pays her five or tenm euros as a reward.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64493	Mr. Maric, you're making very graphic lies, so please return to the topic of the agenda. It's about cinema and nothing less.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64494	Mr. Novakovic, I quote Article 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64495	There's no Angelina Jolie in Article 7. I read it carefully. What, we're stupid now, and you're smart? Mrs. Radeta, I give you my first warning for insulting and throwing. I'll ask you another time. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64496	I will quote Article 7 from the words "to encourage foreign producers to produce foreign cinema works from Article 6 of this Law and co-production works under Article 5 of this Act" in Serbia, I stress, "the foreign producer is paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, in line with the funds provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, up to 20% of the total film funds spent on the territory of the Republic of Serbia according to a special act of government". So, fully in line with what I said, if 50m euros have been spent on filmmaking, foreign film in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia under this law has the opportunity to compensate the producer for the costs of one, five or 10m euros. I would like, if a representative of the government, apro at the proposal of this member of the law, could name one single movie that speaks of Serbs, which was recorded on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, without Serbs in the film being the bad guys, so-called. Bad guys. Perhaps that one single example would help me understand this solution from Article 7, but there is no such movie. This legend in which we live, among other things, is the result of a media satanization, including the Satanization of the Serbian people and the Republic of Serbia through the film industry, and I really don't see any excuse that now and who have satanicized us are honoring millions of euros, which we must borrow from them. However, in order to remain a legal possibility for the Republic of Serbia to help shoot some movie that affirms Serbia into its citizens, if anyone remembers to make such a movie, we from the SRS did not ask for the removal of this member, but we submitted the next amendment. I quote - the funds of Article 1 of this article can only be paid to that foreign producer whose film does not deny or question the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, does not degrade or insult the national feelings, identity and tradition of the Serbian people and national minorities living in Serbia and does not promote hatred on a racial, national or religious basis. We simply feel that there must be some legal restriction for this matter to be settled. There must be a ban on budgets, funds for Serbian citizens to publish any works of art in the field of culture, including films that dispute the territorial sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia with their content, or encourage hatred among its citizens. Article 10 speaks of general interest in the film industry. There are now 12 items listed here. As far as we're concerned, they're all standing, they're all justified. However, it is unacceptable that there is no incentive and preservation of the cultural identity of the Serbian people among these measures and the tasks financed under this article from the Republika Srpska budget. That's one. Two, there is no incentive and preservation of the memory of the history of Serbia and the Serbian people, of the tradition of the Serb people, of the tradition of national minorities in Serbia, and especially of significant historical events and prominent historical figures from the Serb people, from the order of other peoples and national minorities, who by their life's work have entrusted Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. We believe that this should be one of the main priorities of the film industry and culture in the Republic of Serbia at all. Article 17 discusses the conditions of a competition held twice a year by the Serbian Film Centre for funding the production of new domestic films. So it's about conditions, about parameters that will be valued in the selection of films. Those parameters are nine, I won't quote them in time. It is interesting, however, that none of the conditions mention a contribution, which the film or film itself can have, in preserving the cultural identity of the Serb people, which was mentioned earlier by the minister, but also by the cultural identity of the national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is also interesting that again among the criteria on which the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Culture, the Film Centre will allocate funds on the basis of which it will choose films, which will receive funding from the budget, there is no mention of the contribution of preserving the memory of Serbia's history, of what I said, significant historical events and of significant figures from the history of the Serbian people and at all of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Article 24 speaks of financial assistance that cinemas will receive depending on the repertoire in them. The following is said: that every cinema in which less than 30% of the films shown are domestic and European films, these cinemas will be able to count on budgets for the renovation of cinema renovations and for the purchase of new equipment. The Serbian Radical Party agrees that the money of Serbian citizens, among other things, should be spent on the renovation and equipment of movies showing our films. We think that this percentage should even be raised from 30% to 50%, as this would contribute to the development of a Serbian film, but there is not a single valid reason to spend the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the special stimulation of movies showing European films. I ask the question - why should the money of citizens in Serbia be spent on funding to encourage screening, for example, Croatian, Albanian or German films? Why don't you spend on encouraging the show, like, Indian movies? Indian cinema is both more mass and quality than the ones I mentioned. I suppose that the government has included this pointless provision in this bill, in this insane campaign that preceded December 9th, in this fog-traveling process, in order to make it known to EU officials in this area, how much this authority has been defined for European integration policy and EU accession at all costs, including through these legal solutions and through the writing of such laws, which clearly represent the continuation of school resolution, i.e. the prescribed legislative solutions from EU member states' legislation. I am asking a question and I would like the Minister to answer me here – what is it that Europe, which deserves one privileged status, compared to, I mentioned the culture of India or China? Are there dozens of films, thousands of books or millions of texts that have been produced in Europe in the last 20 years, in which the Serbian people are the blackest satanized? I draw attention to a notorious fact that the Satanisation of the Serbian people is also being led through the film industry, through the financing of films in which Serbs are represented as total villains. I also draw attention to the fact that only during one year in BiH and Croatia, from funds that finance the Satanisation of the Serbian people, at least ten such films are recorded. Now, according to what the government is proposing, if a cinema in Belgrade decides that every third film that shows that it speaks of Serbs as criminals within a year, of the Serb people as genocide people, this cinema will be able to count on the financial assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that these lies about the Serbian people are placed in the renovated cinema halls and with the most modern equipment. The last member I'm going to comment on is Article 26. This article discusses the protection of minors and the ban on inciting discrimination, violence and insult of human dignity in movies that appear in our cinemas. I'll quote part of article 26. – a public screening of a film piece whose contents are difficult to compromise the physical, metal or moral development of minors, is prohibited. I only ask one question - if this legal solution is applied, will we have one movie left? Are we going to have one movie left? In our cinemas, we don't have movies that don't get a lot of violence. At the address of a friend, I recently went to a Belgrade cinema to watch a home movie. In my day, I read critic opinions about the film, and they were mostly positive opinions. I was truly amazed by the brutal and mass brutal scenes that enriched the film. In that movie, heads fly, about, like, butter on Belgrade's Koshava. I spent four years on the battlefield, commanding reconnaissance-diversant units of the Republika Srpska Army. Unfortunately, he participated in some battles. No, unfortunately. I've been involved in some battles where, unfortunately, there have been many deaths. I'm telling you, I've never seen what I've seen in this movie in five minutes of desert fire fall so many human heads. After that movie, I really wondered, if that film had made such an impression on me, with what impression, with what feeling from the cinema after watching that and similar movies, would underage children come out? Why do I mention this particular example? I mention it for reasons that I later checked and established that this film received funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, among other things. In the end, we in the SRS believe that these bans under Article 26 should be extended by banning the presentation of films whose content, whose scenario denies the territorial sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia, whose content offends the national dignity of the Serbian people and national minorities living in Serbia. The Serbian people have been practically in an emergency half-war for 20 years. We in many areas cannot defend ourselves because we are dealing with a much stronger enemy. But I really don't understand why we're not defending ourselves where we can, but we're creating space for the enemy, as says fellow Savic, helping the enemy to threaten us and where we can defend ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64497	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic, advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have injured Article 27, Article 107, Articles 109 and 106. Rules of Procedure. I'll explain in a short time. You're probably either aware of it or not. Namely, you have abused Article 27 in the position of the chairman, and in relation to Article 106, because you cannot, the Rules of Procedure say, no one but the chairman can warn the MP unless he is talking about the subject of the agenda. As you have seen, and colleagues from other parliamentary groups and the entire Serbian public, who is following this session, Mr Maric also spoke about the topic of the agenda, about the Law on Cinematography. I can only think that you wanted, like Nikola Novakovic, to save honor, reputation, character and the work of Angelina Jolie. It was probably your intention. By illustration and by example by Mr. Maric, and later when Radeta's colleague responded quite nicely, telling you, in a way that was not offensive, that Mr. Maric and how he knew what he was talking about, and she asked whether you knew what you were talking about, and not Mr. Maric, you told her, for no reason whatsoever, a warning and you said that she had offended you or something, and she just reacted, as everyone would react at that time, and I would, rather, follow Mr. Maric and watch the members of the law that he had apostrophysed. So, you abused Mr. Novakovic, the office of chairman and member of 27. You had absolutely no reason to interrupt your colleague Maric, it was an inappropriate and counter-business intervention, because once with an illustration and what Hollywood production is doing here and how it dissuades the struggle of the Serbian people, it wanted to show what it was about...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64499	Your time is up. I have to answer that warning to the MP to stick to the agenda and agenda topics is the responsibility of the chairman and if I hadn't done it, I would have hurt the Rules of Procedure. After doing so, I absolutely claim that the Rules of Procedure are currently being misused by asking for the right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and Mr Maric was talking about other countries' cinemas at that moment. We are here discussing the Law on Cinematography of the Republic of Serbia and I will limit myself always and only to the law that is currently on the agenda. Thank you. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Mr. Novakovic, you are obliged to ask me if I want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day. ) The assembly will obviously declare itself in the voting day. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place, to ask me! ( ) Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Natasa Jovanovic: Yes, I do. ) The assembly will declare in the voting day. Please sit down and do not disturb the order of the National Assembly. Mr. Marko Milenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult to talk today about the general interest and how it is achieved in the area of cinematography in a country where everyone has interests, both America and the EU and Croatia and Albania and Turkey and foreign banks and domestic tycoons and newborn owners, only Serbian citizens do not have them. What immediately attracts the attention of this bill is your general commitment to edit the area of cinematography and implement this idea throughout the text of the law. Apparently, the 1991 Cinematography Act is being overcome due to social economic change and technological development that has affected the change in these relations, as you several times claim in the bill, and you are so concerned that you are passing this bill that will only apply from July of next year. As the previous DOS culture ministers responded to this proposal of the cinema law, you remembered to respect the social economic relations that were created, you just don't say which. The misery, poverty, unemployment, the destruction of the economy and agriculture, the fall of the purchasing power of our citizens, who simply cannot believe what has hit them on this 11-year-old trip to Europe, led by all the DOS governments since 2000? In order for you, as a good and caring culture minister, to correct all this, to pass a law with the beginning of its application only from July of next year, and in July of next year, a new government will be formed and what then? Do you, as a competent minister, when you pass this law, so as not to apply it, can you at least guarantee its application later? Of course not. The bill is also bad for the new culture minister, who wants to do his job responsibly, will be unusable. Furthermore, in Article 10, which defines the general interest in cinematography, in Section 5, you are talking about encouraging the restoration, maintenance and standardisation of the cinema network, as if the previous law or anything else had prevented you from doing so, and you know very well that the cinema network has never been in a poorer state than it is today. Nevertheless, in attitude 7, you introduce nonsense that costs, quote – a united information centre for the sale of cinema tickets. Now, imagine the situation, a movie ticket is sold in Prokuplje, and it is recorded in downtown Belgrade. But there's one problem, the cinema bath isn't working. That's why a movie ticket is sold to a movie theater in Kursumlia, and that would be recorded downtown, when it's not even a movie in Kursumlia. We're expecting a surprise in Žitoraja and Blaco, but movies don't work there either. In the Warm County, Mr. Minister, there is no cinema. Fortunately, there is Nis, the centre of culture of southern Serbia, or at least that should be, in Nis of cinemas, which were six, doing only one, the House of the Army, and the rest of your economic and technical progress has turned into discotheques and folklore. A few days ago, children from elementary schools in Nis paid 200 dinars for 3d animation, but they were welcomed by 1d ordinary animated film, because there is no adequate hall for 3d animation. You can imagine this disappointment of children who have realized they have been deceived, but besides, the whole of Serbia is disappointed and deceived. In addition, the same children from basic schools organized through school watched the film "Montevideo", and it is impossible not to ask yourself all of you responsible for the state of culture today in Serbia – who is competent to judge the educational component of the film for children of that age and to choose "Montideo"? Some control mechanisms you predict in this bill, but that's not enough. The paradox of its kind has been achieved on the other side of the reasoning of this bill, where you say our country treats cinematography as a priority work, and that by adopting this law, in addition to the development of national cinematography, you will also assist the development of world cinematography. Now there must be a genius who wrote this bill to help the world's cinematography. It's the least scandalous, and then in the conversation with colleagues, some of them say, "Oh, the minister is joking, don't mind him, he doesn't mean it." The country you are only leading towards importing and preserving the economic monopoly of certain tycoons and foreign banks, which peel the skin of our citizens, refers to priority activities. Your law by establishing a Serbian film centre will not bring about changes in production, which is absolutely locked in Belgrade, because the film is made outside Belgrade only when someone from Belgrade has an interest in filming it. There is a film festival in Nis, and there is not a single production house that can record a game structure because it has no capital. How is there no capital? Because in Belgrade, every famous actor has opened a production house and when he reports to the ministry's competition, he gets references, because his recommendation is written by fellow actors who also have production houses, who get money, and now he returns to their colleagues, they act with him. Then, he writes a recommendation for a colleague who wrote to him earlier, plays with him in a movie and everything in a circle. In addition, you do not specify an administration that monitors the establishment of a film centre, you do not specify the existence of a director, board of directors, board of supervisors, and all of this should be in the text of the bill. Now, what you're offering to the MPs is a cat in a sack, because there are no people in the Ministry of Culture who would do all these jobs. Furthermore, in Article 17, you predict that in a competition to finance projects of domestic film production, the proposals are made by a panel of five prominent artists in the field of cinematography, not predicting that these members should not be in any way related to the participants of the competition, which is most important in the entire competition process. But you don't trust the same artists, but on the basis of their proposal, only the Serbian Film Centre Management Board makes a decision on the selection of funding projects, and we don't even know how many boards are elected, nor how many members there are. As a highlight of principle, we make the law so that nothing changes, that everything stays the same. In addition, it remains the possibility for the minister to adjust the criteria closer, the criteria for selecting funding projects. In Article 38. The bill gives too much time for the 12 months of the Serbian Film Centre to coordinate the organisation of acts and operations with the provisions of this law. There's no efficiency, there's no energy. It seems to me that you've been tired these 11 years, you've been born out of those who've been choosing you all along, and it's time for you to leave. At the end of your bill, as a slap after a beating, the reader is awaiting an interesting statement of compliance with EU regulations, which you have clearly filled out on the basis of some tables, forms, forms, questionnaires. First you confirm the compliance of this bill with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. You will remember, this is the agreement after which, three years ago, Serbian citizens do not live for a single shade better, for which Tomislav Nikolic, along with the DS, co-defyed with Tomislav Nikolic and who was his external alleged cause of the conflict with the SRS. Then, in point 4 of this statement, you confirm that the draft law is fully in line with EU rules, and it is before the collapse. In the Middle Ages, the church held power with beautiful stories about the afterlife, so people, who have tortured themselves like the Serbian citizens today, thought the prize would come after death. In Serbia, meanwhile, today it is said that this unemployment lasts only until it enters the EU, and then honey and milk, the job of the European standard, European wages. It would be good for them to see us in the EU today, to see citizens who don't know it, to see a Serbian farmer, a worker, an intellectual, waiting for him to live even harder, because there is no job in the EU either. Then 90% of Serbian citizens would vote for the SRS and Vojislav Seselj, to finally stop Serbia's robbery and collapse, employ the village, the city, boost economy and construction operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64501	I thank you, too. The word has a folk MP, Ms. Vice President Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you'll listen to me more carefully than your colleague Milenkovic. You almost didn't follow him at all. In particular, and clearly I will continue in this direction in which counterparts Maric and Milenkovic spoke, when it comes to the overall state of Serbian cinema today and the inability to change anything through this law. Of course, for the sake of reminding you, Mr. Odalovic, who is with you at the chair table, if you follow me, but I first speak for the public and all those who deal with art, film and, above all, citizens who expect to hear what our opinion of this segment of our social life is. I'm going to do a retrospective and, unfortunately, I have to realize that at the time of Joseph Broz's communist dictatorship, some film, as they were then called, workers, artists, regardless of what some of them were dissidents of that time, discriminated against and in every way prevented from acting at that time. They were more consistent with some of their artistic ideas than they are today, because Hollywood hyperproduction is also present with us. You now, when you see some new young authors with allegedly new views and ideas that are absolutely unified and under one drop of Europeanisation, Euro-Atlantic integration, as they say facing the past, insulting Serbs, imposing collective guilt on the Serbian people for something we haven't done, then you see that in fact it is the failure of Serbian film and domestic cinematography. We are absolutely convinced that since there is no indication that cultural, national and historical identity will be nurtured through the bill, nor will the Serbian Film Centre do so, that such production will be desirable and that such people will receive the funds provided for in this law and that they will be allocated from the budget. Of course, the means to break up the illusions of some better life that the West offers, which destroys our country, kidnaps KIM and commits one of the greatest crimes of the last century, which is the destruction of that former state. The NATO Pact did so with bombs and war that it produced in the former Yugoslavia's space. Such films will not be financed, nor will such production, until the patriotic power comes with Serbian radicals at the head and our president, to be desirable in Serbia. If I were right, it also speaks of the fact that recently, now already celebrated in Serbia, young director Boris Malagurski, who lived in Canada for a time, has made a really impressive effort to shoot a documentary film "The Weight of Chains". He collected a huge structure of recent history, with the help of some, as said by friends, enthusiasts, also foreigners of friends of Serbia and his friends living abroad and made absolutely in the right sense of today's time, when the documentary in question was a spectacular film piece, where in one summary, a documentary way showed that the West was fiercely treated by Serbs and the Serbian people, that the media in the West convinced people living in those countries that Serbia was evil and bad boys and that the entire machinery and propaganda in the West worked against Serbia and the Serbian people for decades. Of course, such a film did not deserve to appear on Serbian state television, although it is on the state television of Republika Srpska and on another major private television in Republika Srpska. The explanation Mr. Malagurski received is obvious that the issue and the face of the right truth that NATO, America and the EU have been destroying us all these years is undesirable. Then he was given an explanation that it no longer has such exclusiveity to appear on state television film "treasury of chains" to broadcast, in fact, because it had already been broadcast on another television, with also a national frequency. There, it's the state's relationship to people who spread the truth about what the real truth is about Serbia and the Serbian people. The Yugoslav film was much richer, as I said at first, than a Serbian film. Tomorrow a representative of the Council of Europe comes here to talk about respect for democracy and human rights. Today, all those who wish to think freely in Serbia who is under an undercover occupation, in the other part, which is occupied by KIM, are all prevented from thinking in such a way, because they are being denied, as are the MPs here, as you are today demonstrating fundamental freedoms and rights and democratic rights to express our position. And these films, like those who received first prizes in Cannes, such as Saša Petrovic's film "Purple Collectors", then later Emira Kusturica's films and everyone else who is the masterpiece of our cinematography, actually show that these people didn't want to change their, above all, cultural, artistic, identity and that they stayed in it. Sam Emir Kusturica has shown that he wants to continue to act in this direction and that he advocates something of course that the government in Serbia will never accept, I am convinced, that only anti-Hollywood festivals are being organised here because also our colleague Jeremic, our authorised representative, said that we do not, in the right sense, have a Serbian film festival, and we have, as the minister noted and so our public is familiar with, the Days of Serbian Film in Russia. It simply suits someone to screen secular and national identity and not to view these films as goods, consumable goods, such as those in the West, which will easily be rejected. Again, I must mention in this context our famous director, Mr. Kusturic, who said – We cannot as Americans, a Serbian film and all that is art and what needs to protect the cultural identity of the Serbian people, to lower ourselves to the level of hamburgers. But we are therefore facing the fact that here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are experiencing from the representatives of the government that serious issues, serious debates that Serbian radicals are launching, they simply banalise because they do not have counterarguments, and the whole Serbian public now sees, and this one, which deals with this artistic segment of social life in Serbia, that we have much better solutions and that this law and that it has great shortcomings. In order for film production and cinema to rise to a higher level at all, Col. Milenkovic spoke of it when you did not follow him, we must face the fact that we do not have a network of city cinemas in Serbia, or places where people can see what they want to see. It all comes down to people going to these big malls, shopping malls, along the way stopping at a break or waiting for some action and some reduction or for the kids to play somewhere else, to watch a movie. At a time that we also remember older people than us, it was true and it was clear when people were going to follow certain cinema shows. We don't even have a defined movie status with us. This law was a great opportunity to do it. How big a problem it is and how much is present with formerly social property which is now state-owned and which in some cities is in agreement with the Republic Property Agency, such as in Kragujevac, belongs to the town of Kragujevac, here it also shows the case of Nis and southern Serbia, which was spoken of by counterpart Milenkovic, but there is absolutely such a situation in Serbia everywhere. If you want, and your intensity is obvious by this law, to make the film something that will satisfy the wide market, then you have missed the topic. Because this isn't Wall Street, and this isn't something that's going to be dealt with by actions and stocks, and that at some point it's going to crash and break, just like it happened by Americans, and this supposed global economic crisis is being passed on to us here, which isn't true. We've been robbed by tycoons and owners back 11 years and their allies. You now want to bring the culture level down to that, worst possible level and by the system that you've robbed companies, so now you're robbing the art field. People who hold on to their dignity, people who would never and never change their conviction for anything and would never say anything ugly against Serbia and the Serb people, have nothing to look for. Because it's not a market for them. Where are you supposed to place it, or those who are going to finance such projects? To the Western market. Surely you will not ask for help from our friends in the world, such as the Russian Federation and other countries that have fantastic directors and developed cinematography. Mr. Novakovic, you may be slightly aware that the Brazilian film and their cinema, next to the famous Russian, is one of the most recognized in the world. But few people in Serbia know that, I know that through a set of circumstances because I have been called back for months by the Brazilian embassy to visit the days of the week when they organize a projection of some of their films, that they are also films from the production of anti-globalistic films. Only if I turn around and oppose that media's ugliest policy of the West and their image of Serbs, we have the right to say that we have raised the level of domestic cinema to some level and to leave it to future generations. It's not just about the inability of Serbs to profile themselves in the world, because they don't want us to, because they think we're terrible and all the worst think about us, and they're just trying to enslave us and take away our resources and destroy our country without saying they're just serious subjects. What happened back in the '90s, or the '80s, in the late '80s, with our famous director, Slobodan Siyan? His film "The Marathons Run the Honorary Circle" was celebrated at the premises of the former country, so it's a comedy, he made such films, and when he was supposed to sign a contract with a production house, right in America and in the west he became a persona non grata. They don't like comedy either because he's a Serb, and the Serbs are like this. Their picture of us has not changed and you lie and deceive Serbian citizens and you from G 17 +, and your Dinkic, and Boris Tadic, and all of you who tell Serbian citizens that they want something good for us. That's not true at all. Only by creating large ones through productions which, of course, the state of Serbia does not want to finance films about our greats, about our history, can we introduce ourselves in the best sense and look for a way and direction, which is not what this government wants to paint as it should be, a dignified and courageous Serbian people reach someone else in the world. Many have mentioned here, so I see that the minister did not respond, in the year of the marking of our Nobel laureate, Ivo Andric, that until today he has not made a film according to his novel "On the Drina Cupria", that film will probably begin, in fact, next year to be recorded. But not by the government of the Republic of Serbia but by the government of Republika Srpska because the government of the Republic of Serbia did not have the hearing as something they promised that if from this little thing that exists in this law they could allocate some funds, I do not believe it would come to them, to help the great and grand work of Andric, which should be placed on film screen by Emir Kusturica. But that's why the Republika Srpska government decided to do it. It's all because the Serbs are made war criminals, so to God, someone there wouldn't be offended if they saw it and didn't bother anyone to make a movie about Andric's work that won the Nobel Prize. As for the documentary program that is being placed on our youth and which should also be our educational programme to aim at knowing who we are and what the people are, and what our potentials are, that we are actually a healthy nation and that we should look back on ourselves and our friends, we do not have such documentary programs because we simply do everything from BBC and some foreign productions. In general, such films that have recently been made, and especially those coming from the former Yugoslavia, especially from BiH, are the whole hyperproduction where the alleged crimes of Serbs, the alleged genocide of Srebrenica, and how desirable they are for various festival organisers here in Serbia. I will end it, and that is something that the entire Serbian public may little know, know people in my town, in Kragujevac, but I don't believe that fellow MPs have heard of it, there was one truly genuine idea of Emir Kusturica to create a cultural square in the central part of Serbia, or centre in the former Zastava factory, which, as he said at the time when he announced it and when he came at the invitation of Veroljub Stevanović, Mayor of Kragujevac, was supposed to fight imperial evil. So, to be a cultural center where there's going to be a big movie theater, where there's going to be five smaller cinemas and where they're going to show exclusively anti-globalistic movies. Of course, because of the painting and the campaign in that period, your partner Veroljub Stevanovic accepted and invited Kusturica to come to Kragujevac, however later, as you and his party "Together for the Shumadi", completely turned to the NATO Pact and how at the congress of his party in Kragujevac he extended the NATO Pact and the EU flag, someone who is an anti-globalist and who would show such films became undesirable for Stevanović and for your G17 companies in Kragujevac. This idea is not realised, but I believe that both his and everything he does now is already known as Boris Malagurski and many other young people who want to spread the truth about Serbia and who want to fight against this imperialistic spine and evil, will find their way and space, of course not under your authority, but we will do everything to enable them in the future because, as the slogan of our party says, Serbia is eternal only while its children are faithful. These people and these artists will be faithful to their idea because as those who spent years in the stews in Siberia, after getting out of those prisons remained faithful to their ideas and continued to film and to practice art, even though they were persecuted, as those who were in prisons under the communist dictatorship did, I believe that under this semi-covered occupation in Serbia, these people, along with us in power, would see the light of day and do something good for Serbian cinema. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64503	The word has the People's MP Dr Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64504	The honourable MPs, Mr. Chairman, are repeating the old story again. The government simply does not respect the Assembly, does not respect the MPs. I should point out that the bill came to the Assembly only a day ago, two, and now we MPs, because of the short time to prepare, must improvise on this subject. Otherwise, MPs from other parliamentary groups have a poor response. Only the four of us in the SRS signed up to talk on this subject. Simply put, we need to speed up today a very important law that regulates an area that should be of paramount importance to the state, if it wants to worry at all about the preservation of state and people's interests, people's morals and the preservation of the spiritually mature population. Throughout the 20th century, cinema was limited by ideological and political censorship. The development of cinema was directed by ideological and political changes in the territory of Serbian countries and Yugoslavia. A key event aimed at Serbian cinematography towards Western Democratic countries was a May coup in 1903, when the austrophy dynasty of Obrenovic was removed and brought to the throne by the Franciscan dynasty of Karadjordjevic, which marked Serbia's political backdrop primarily in France, but also in Britain. Since 1903, French influence has been crucial. French Philosophers come to Serbia and draw the ideological direction of Serbian cinematography. As early as 1903 in the Serbian and Serbian film reporting countries, Stanislav Novirit has been shooting for the French firm Pate, which also made films throughout Zagreb and Yugoslavia in the period 1927-1930. The celebration of the new liberal dynasties, Karadjordjevic, was won by an English cameraman with a short film "King Peter's coronation" that is kept in Belgrade's cinema. Milton Manaki has recorded various events in southern Serbia in Bitola and the environment since 1905. War reports were recorded during the Balkan wars for France, i.e. for French film companies. One of the cameramen was Joseph Hal. The 1st World War Epipei has also been perpetuated by French cameramen, but also by Serbian cameraman Mihajl Mihajlovic, who was a cameraman of the Serbian military's cinematographic section. In the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, i.e. Yugoslavia, cinematography was in the service of celebrating the ideology of the liberalisation of European modernisation processes, liberal Yugoslavism and everything was subject to that goal. So the Western patterns have been copied. In the so-called crazy 30s, a Hollywood model was celebrated, contrary to the socio-Soviet celebration of the achievements of the communist revolution and the socialist construction under the religious rule of the working class of communists. Seven feature films were made in Belgrade by 1932. Serbian national tradition was celebrated in those films. The first feature film made in 1910 was "Karadjordje" directed by theatre actor Cic Ilija Stanojevic. The first feature film in the Kingdom of SHS was made only at the end of 1924 and it was the burlesque "Snaps in Topcider". In Zagreb films are made that celebrate Croatian national speciality, national mythology. This is why the film "Crocija film" is founded, which was made in 1919 by the first feature film "Matija Gubec". In fact, Zagreb is adopting Slovenian farmer Matija Gubac for large Croatian national interests. Because of the spread of separatist ideas, the "Croation film" has been liquidated and the need for the expansion of Jugoslavija film company "Yugoslavija film" is established. With communists coming to power in 1945, the Sovietisation of Serbia's Yugoslav film begins. For these needs, a state film company of democratic federal Yugoslavia was established in 1945, which strongly approved the production of films. The film industry monitors the ideological and political direction of the Yugoslav state. With federalization and decentralisation of the state, there is also decentralisation of film production. By introducing so-called self-management in 1950, film companies became independent production units with working self-management and artistic councils in 1951. The basic 1956 film law defines film production as an economic activity of particular importance for culture and education. Companies for production from companies for the technical processing of film have been distributed. Legally established film advice as social control bodies. The problem of financing production has been regulated, which is a major problem for filmmakers nowadays, then protecting domestic film and conditions under which co-production by film producers is allowed. Film makers and associates have confirmed the status of a free artist. Those are the 1956 provisions. Broz's communist regime paid great attention and care to the development of the film industry due to the implementation of a class propaganda of red winners with strong censorship, so films could be filmed that celebrated the communist victories of the working class without any critical view of reality. The first decades after World War II, numerous film institutions were established. In 1946 the construction of the Film City began on the Kosutnjak. In 1947, the High School for Film Act and Directors and Film Technology for Film Film Filmmakers and Technicians was founded in Belgrade. The high film school was joined in 1950 by the Academy of Theatre Arts in Belgrade. In 1958, the Reproductive Cinematography Association was established, which included film companies, i.e. distributors, and cinema companies. The production companies were members of the Association of Film Producers, which included as many as 10 filmmaking companies, which are already mentioned "Avala film", "UFUS" and "Slavija film" from Belgrade, "Adriatic film" and "Zagreb film" from Zagreb, "Triglavlav film" and "Viba film" from Ljubljana, "Bosnia film" from Sarajevo, "Vardar film" from Skopje and "Lovzen film" from Budva. They're, like, happy times for filmmakers today. So companies are founded according to the national key criteria, equal representation of all newly established republics and new socialist nations. The films were strictly directed towards the glorification of the NOB party, with only one side of the anti-fascist struggle of Partizan, while members of the Yugoslav army in the country, though anti-fascists, were represented as occupiers and fascists. The worst is that even today from Serbia's public service, TV Vojvodina, many reruns of anti-Serbian films that are poisoning young generations today are being rerun through Pink and B92. I wonder if any Serbian government will ever finance a film about the Yugoslav army about the country? Certainly not, although the equivalent struggle and Draža Mihajlovic are rehabilitated by the Republika Srpska Assembly. Such rehabilitation seems to be just a simple dead letter on paper. Broz's anti-Serbian communist ideology has been replaced by attempts to rebuild Serbia since the 1990s, so cinematography has begun to align with the topic of Serbia's rehabilitation and Serbian national values. The turning point in this direction is the film "Kosovo Battle", which was specially recorded for the celebration of the 600th anniversary of the Kosovo Battle in 1989. The great figure of Knez Lazar was played by my cousin, late Milos Zutic, with a divine voice that will continue in the 1990s with support in the fight against the Negosta and Bosniak Izetbegovic regime. As an actor, Milos Zutic visited towns in Republika Srpska, especially in Kninska Krajina and Lica, from which he was antiquity and originated, along with the late Peter Kralj, Ljubo Tadic, the Zagreb-run fugitive Serbian actors and others. He personally told me his terrible impressions about killing Serbs in Bratunac. With an acting team touring Serbian countries, it took place in Bratunc at the most difficult moment after the massacre, or killing Serbs, at the moment the Serb corpses were exposed before the funeral. While he was telling me all this, he was visibly shaken. So, brother, Milos Zutic performed the patriotic duty of a Serbian actor in Serbian countries. It was an acting tour, as was the topic already mentioned, of the mentioned anti-Serbian movie, "Turnei", which, unlike objective reality, conveyed the impression of Serbia and Bosnian Serbs as villains, warlords, as advocates of the idea of a great Serbia. As in the vast majority of modern neoliberal films, Serbs are depicted as poor aggressive boys who terrorise the surrounding peacemakers. I'm telling you all this to see to what extent a certain historical era film is dependent on ideology and politics. The real directors of domestic films from the last 15 years are foundations from non-oliberal countries that sponsor such analytical films. Just give an example of a film bearing the title "Serbian Film", which even such a mondialic power had to be removed from the cinema screen and banned from showing it. This law that is before us has just been written in an international spirit, in the spirit of protecting the existing anti-Serbian production that has become a normal phenomenon in the state of Serbia. The saddest thing is that the state of Serbia is not protecting its national survival, which is among other things threatened by anti-state film production. It's just enough to mention who was doing everything from the directors and actors on this bill, making suggestions and suggestions. The amendments to me can't help repairing one of these laws. There's got to be a new law to write to me. Otherwise, I've submitted a few amendments, just to keep my conscience calm. My amendments are currently related to cinematography that should, among other things, protect the historic national and cultural interest of the Serbian people. Namely, I have submitted an amendment to the very title of the bill. According to this title, you don't know whose law this is, what countries or what people. Maybe this is the EU law, which is the kind of one that is an international, anti-traditional, simple and prescribable. I suggested that the bill be called simply – a bill on Serbian cinematography because the current name does not determine the national and state membership of this cinematography. The addition calls it the word - Serbian, the territorial and national belongings of cinematography are specified to be cinematography of Serbian people within borders outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. In line with the name of the law, I suggested adding "Serbian" as well as "domestic, domestic" to the term "serb" as well as replacing the word "domestic" in terms of "domestic". I have submitted several amendments to Article 4 of the Law. The same transformations concern these Serbian specifics. I won't talk about it much longer. I also submitted the amendment to Article 10, so I will discuss these amendments in more detail when discussing the details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64505	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer signed up for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64506	Thank you. I would like to thank everyone, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and thank you and this discussion is first of all well-intentioned, whether there is a consensus or disagreement to show what extent we all care about in the discussions, and it is important to do so in action, to provide a system way for an area that is of national importance, and on average 40% of the isolation in the largest number of countries in the world, from the separation of budgets that go towards contemporary creation, on average 40% is set aside for the film. It's a technologically expensive job. That's what he says first of all, but the result is that, I'd only remind him of the parts of the discussion, where we all remember movie characters and heroes, each experiencing in our own way. So it's the production of work, whose duration is part of the long-term process, and it's our obligation to initially provide it, ours, that means the National Assembly, because the state through its highest body of the National Assembly is passing laws on the territory of its country. There is, of course, a result of what we have heard, and often it is heard, regretting why the law does not define a whole series of things, often very important. But you're limited, and you're, I guess, all aware, but there's a burning discussion. This is a way to create conditions in the territory of our state of Serbia from the same money, to be free of new separations, without new budgetary allocations, to try to create conditions in this area, systemically, as quickly as possible to the creators through the institution of culture and in this area, as there are in other areas, so today we can say – we are all grateful that we have such a network of institutions, so we could have pure hearts, already in the first round, for the first time in history to enter the UNESCO Committee, the only country from this space. Why? Because our network of security is doing great. It preserves heritage in this territory and then, of course, we can provide systemically such successes in saving the past, and here we are talking about saving something for the future. The money is not enough anyway, and thanks to your discussion, I would remind you of exactly what Article 7 says because simply, the amendment is sometimes read quickly, so because it is said in the definition – from the budget, someone thought it was new budget funds. No, no. This is a way that in the same way, by applying the same model, which exists in all the countries in the environment that have proven to be the best, to attract investment. When you say that you 20% as a country on invested assets in the territory of the country, when you make any foreign film, any co-production, however, the state will return 20%. This stimulant, in fact, means simplistic – it will release VAT, in the way that it returns to the part of VAT, otherwise within the state, but it is said according to the means available why, of course, there are priorities. When someone from the firm turns in to get back part of his VAT because he was previously paid, he has proof of traffic, doesn't come back to him right away. The state sometimes has other priorities, so sometimes you wait a month, sometimes two, sometimes three. That's why the definition inside is so detailed. I will remind you once again, precisely and clearly, of the resources that are now additionally coming, thanks to this law, but also to our willingness, the creator and everyone who participate and we have them, thank God, in all areas, cinematography is enough, the possibility is created to arrive, essentially, the means that will be spent here and the state is stimulating it by returning 20% here to everything that you spend extravagantly, so 2% more than when VAT returns. It's simplified, and I hope that when we get to know each other, you'll be happy. I would draw attention to the fact that the adoption of this law on cinematography has symbolic significance. As emotional as we were to what was happening 20, 30, 50 or 60 years ago, I'll remind you then completely this cinema in this space was funded by citizens' money. Completely. Or social firms that were, so I'm saying, they say they're on the set. As a result, there was more money in cinema, there were other areas. But there was more professionalism. Smart people, smart families, smart countries, act the same way. What we don't have, there isn't, and what we have, let's put it into function. We still have enough professionals in this area. A way to make it easier, safer through the system, not individually, a volunteer decision, destroying the culture minister himself, to come to the initial funds, because the state is only co-financed. In one system that is clearly defined, including penalties for those who are trying to deprive us of, possibly, heritage by not handing over an adequate copy in time when they are working on this market, which is why the penalties are high, which are foreseen. They're high for us, they're not, because it's understood that you don't go into distribution and, I'm sorry, we have to use the words that are common. I understand the pledge, but distributors and distributions are words that are simply found in other laws and other legal acts and enable easy and fast communication. So those who come in, they come in to make money. If they do not respect the state, or our descendants who need to find what we have found and is preserved in the Yugoslav Cinematheque, of course they must pay high fines. I guess we all agree on that. Thanks again. Again, it is symbolic that now that 100 years of Serbian film, all together, hopefully, we will succeed in moving this area by one significant step and thus making it possible for ourselves, because we will not all be MPs for much longer, to enjoy a much greater selection of films in the coming years. Thank you for that. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-15-0.u64507	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the draft bill. This is what we've done today's work. We continue our work tomorrow, Friday, December 16th at 10:00 p.m.
