ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63155	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, we are 85. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that there are 89 of us at this point, that is, working conditions. National MP Vitomir Mihajlovic informed me that he will not attend the session today, or participate in the work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in detail of the 13th and 14th points of the agenda, in addition to the representative of Neboja Ciric, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Predrag Markovic, Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society and Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, Minister of Youth and Sport, I have also called on Ms Ana Blagojevic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development. We continue our work and move on to the Search in the details of the 13th item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE LAW ON POLAND BUSINESS. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Nenad Popović, Aleksandar Pejčić, Dragan Stevanovic, Dejan Mirović, Milan Lapčević, Zoran Krasic, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefana Zankov, Oto Kiš Marton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Borisa Pelevic, Milet Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Toškov, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Vladan Jeremic, Zlata Djerić, Miroslav Markic, Srđan Spasojevic, Milorad Buha, Lidijadijan and Marinmanjić. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Parliamentarians Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wonder if a representative of the government will appear? (President: Minister is on his way, so we can get started. His associate is here. Make sure she's fully informed. Here you go. I had a very specific question about this member of the law. Since we have been informed in the light of this law that this is being adopted because it is in line with certain regulations of certain international organisations, so I wanted to hear from the Prime Minister to tell us what is the fundamental difference in some of the things proposed by the Government here, i.e. by the SRS through the amendment. I believe that we have made the amendment that we have submitted in good faith, and indeed made this provision of Article 4, simpler, more precise, much more specific and not arbitrary for interpretation. What is written in the bill I really believe is that it is not clear to whoever suggested it, or it takes half an hour to enter into the essence of the text written and the measures proposed by this text. For the sake of the public, I will read how the government has experienced this article 4th, or copied it from the WTO, or some of its documents, and to see how it translates into Serbian and nothing like it. It says – the treatment of the most privileged nation in relation to goods within the meaning of this law means that all the advantages, benefits, privileges or exceptions which the Republic of Serbia has designated for any goods originating in or intended for another State or customs territory are immediately and without delay granted to the same or similar goods originating in or intended for any country or customs territory. It is the text of the Government which has been proposed to us and which is in accordance with international regulations and principles. Half an hour, he's supposed to be able to figure out what's written here, and only then he's going to use it eventually if he comes into a situation to call this member of the law. It is further written in the article – the treatment of the most privileged nation in relation to services within the meaning of this law means the treatment of services and service providers originating in one country or customs territory which is not the most favourable of treatment of similar services and providers of similar services from any other country or customs territory. If the writer knows what he's trying to say, I'm Barack Obama. The Serbian Radical Party very simply suggested what and how to do it here. Again for the sake of the public, I will read – the treatment of the most privileged nation in relation to goods or services within the meaning of this law implies the application of all the advantages, benefits, privileges or exemptions in external trade with the country or customs territory that this treatment has been granted to the international agreement or decision of the Government. We don't think anything should be added here anymore because you'd be more Catholic than the Pope. The treatment of a privileged nation in the WTO is seen as only one principle. This is not a matter to be written about in law enforcement. Even you predict that the government's decision determines who will have and under what conditions the status of a privileged nation is, and what you have written here is not clear to you, and even less will be clear which law will eventually come into place and the opportunity to apply. I'd like to ask these government gentlemen, since they're away, tell them when they come, and what is the fundamental difference, and why is that? What is the point, what is the essential reason for the treatment of the most privileged nation to be divided in relation to goods and services? Is there really something or is it just a practice to rewrite because that's what the WTO documents say? As for the Serbian Radical Party, those who have proposed amendments to this law, which are the European Commission and the United States, do not think well of this country. These proposed amendments to the law will basically create a space for them to realize their economic interests here. You accept that, not taking care of domestic or national economic interests. You did not create preconditions to introduce in the state institutions that essentially want to abstract protectionist measures. Serbia and Serbia's production primarily require protectionist measures in order to eventually become able to go global or international. Where you had space to use a high-quality and privileged position, like with Russia, you didn't do it. Going out to that market, and you're not looking for it. Fight in markets where Serbia will not be able to come out in advance for decades because you have destroyed everything and destroyed it. If you convince us that you will go out to EU markets with technology over 35 years old, then I really don't know who's got something going on here. I ask the Government to explain to me why it is important to separate services from goods, is it essentially important or is it just prescribed from documents of international organisations?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63157	Parliamentarians Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 4th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63158	Let me just pick up where Stevanović left off. It is really not clear why these two members were changed, Article 6 and the treatment of the most privileged nation and Article 7 of the national treatment. I see by this argument that you are referring to some definitions that apply to the WTO. However, as you wrote, it turns out that the translation of this text from the English language into a Serbian radio is someone who either doesn't speak English or is at the beginning of that beginner's course, that they can agree on the street when a touristic or possibly at the airport, because this really doesn't mean anything as it is written. Now let me make it a little bit simpler for you. As regards Article 7, where national treatment is referred to, they aim only to make the same and equal goods and services provided on our market status. So it's a status provision, a status equation. That means it's impossible for us to classify the apple with one number and the apple from abroad by another number. And very simple and simple, it's not hard to understand. Here, as you've translated this in a caratically, different interpretations are possible. Now, I don't understand why you changed this at all, when you know that we have a situation with the Republic of Serbia, with limited capacities operating in KIM territory? What kind of treatment does the goods that come with KIM have? It's just that I get the impression that these few laws you're changing are just because you expect something to happen, some kind of real policy, a reality that you can't influence. When these parties that are for Europe talk about the real situation, then it associates me with that story -- you know, they're pathological killers, and we have to be good with them, because if we're not good, they're gonna kill us. Well, the pathological killer is a serial killer. Whether it kills you, doesn't depend on whether you're in good or bad relationships, but your problem is that you chose those as partners. Now, because of these two definitions, a number of questions are being raised. This raises the issue of the Transitional Trade Agreement. Just to remind you that the disastrous decision you made in September 2008, and remember, Zumbul left because of that amendment, you accepted the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and Mrs Comic, every year we lose 300m euros based on customs, according to the finance minister. What you say is no, you're in charge of epp, and the finance minister is in charge of raising money. When the finance minister says that we lose 300m euros every year because we don't charge customs, then I trust the finance minister, who deals with mathematics, rather than you, when you're in Epp. You always said no when we said something. It wasn't for the Supreme Court of Kosovo, so here's the government can't put together to make a declaration. So it was not for public sector wages, so look, all the newspapers, public enterprises, what are the salaries. The purpose of the rules on external trade, among other things, of regulating the normal transport of goods and services abroad, as well as of importing and exporting, is to aim at protecting our business area. Very simple and simple. You start with the parolees, so when foreigners show up with dumping prices, then we change the Public Procurement Act, and we say, "a mild advantage is given to domestic producers." Then when we see who the domestic producers are, they're domestic importers. They don't produce it either, they import it from Poland. You are distracting us with definitions in this long-standing EU accession process, you who voted from Bodrum. It's the height of democracy, Bodrumci, though, at that time the Resistance was against the DS, criticising them, but it's no bother to drown, to drown. That's what you're doing. You're changing seemingly definitions, you're entering some complications, and where's our production? Is that what you're thinking? You give a mild advantage to domestic producers and we don't have a manufacturer. Once upon a time in order for someone to have producer status he had to prove the minimum technical conditions for production, so that he had the plant, all that was necessary for production. Today he logs in with the Agency for Business Registers Password, he brings in circuits from abroad, here he composits, 60% of the value of the goods are supposed to be a screwdriver service and gets home product treatment. That's how you applied the agreement with the Russians, so they created a special customs department for the control of goods coming from Serbia, under the Free Trade Agreement. Why? Because under the assurance of Serbian origin, goods came from abroad. You think you can cheat on someone in the world, like you cheat on voters in Serbia. One dimension is the voter's dimension in Serbia, and the other is the job dimension. You are unnecessarily changing these definitions. We tried to make things right, but when it comes to a 126 guillotine, you know how it goes. However, I must tell you a secret. Changed, didn't change, there's nothing of this. Accept the amendment, withdraw this bill, absolutely nothing will happen. Why? Because you know how laws apply to us, and here you create some starting positions for some new solutions to KIM. There is no minister to explain the treatment of goods coming from KIM, from the point of view of the Foreign Trade Act. I know that on TV you're going to corn, talk – it's all settled, no problem. Do you know that today you have two regimes independent? You have one regime that corresponds to the foreign trade business in Merdar and in Bujanovac, and in Jarinj and Brnjak you have no regime. And you're fighting for Kosovo in Serbia. What are you talking about? You think people don't know that. And this law is for you to prepare, and this law is a condition, and you cannot agree on the text of the declaration in the Government. You cannot repeat constitutional provisions in the declaration text. You're aware that you've been branded for this five-colony policy for all time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63159	Foreign trade and Kosovo cannot in any way be linked in the way you do both formally and essentially. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Mr Krasic answered again. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. On what replica? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: You insulted me. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović has the word, you do not have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63160	The reasons, Madam President, for which you have said what you have just said are purely political. The fact is that you want your position pre-election, as part of the majority, not to be questioned. However, what Mr Krasic said and how it has to do with KIM. I'm treating you so-called. independent, economic or autonomous territories, which will come forward in certain trade relations with the Republic of Serbia, and we are very interested in whether in trade relations with the KIM, Serbia will be governed by this law or will it be the case of the Law on Trade? If things weren't a bit simple, you as a government made a failure or an oversight of KIM, so you're reluctant to talk about it, as a government, now on a very specific case, I'm going to try to show you that you're showing absolute care for our northern province, according to Vojvodina. I'm going to ask you to forward a stenogram of my presentation, from this moment on, after this to the competent state authorities, because the SRS is asking that, based on what I'm about to present, the competent state authorities inform us if they've done anything, what they've done, and in accordance with what law, and also regarding trade? You see, Madam President, every product sold in Serbia, domestically or on the foreign market, must have a declaration. That declaration must contain material, country of origin, product, if you want a phone, etc. This is a business card from the Republic of Serbia, more specifically from Novi Sad, I won't advertise it, I'll give you an insight if you need them, they do craft work, they produce something. This is a declaration from one of their products. This is a declaration of a product produced in Novi Sad. I see disdain, and now you'll hear why. The material is wood, metal and textiles, and the land of origin is Vojvodina. I ask the competent state authorities - according to what law on the declaration of a product produced in Serbia, is it said that the country of origin of Vojvodina? Why aren't the authorities responding? In accordance with what law is this? Is that Vojvodina's independent autonomous, or economic territory or continent? Is tomorrow and Vojvodina going to ask to be part of the world trade organization? And here's how you close your eyes to the fact that dangerous political matters interfere in the economy and thus create preconditions for the collapse of a new state in the north of Serbia. I ask those who mock, competent state authorities, to tell me in accordance with what law on the declaration of products produced in Serbia says that the place of origin of this product is Vojvodina, that the country of origin is Vojvodina? I ask that I be answered and the SRS request that the competent state authorities initiate adequate legal measures and procedures to stop this kind of thing. It's not Vojvodina, it's the Republic of Serbia. That's how it has to be written here, and if it's the opposite, let the government convince me that it's different or let them take appropriate legal measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63161	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by the MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63162	Mrs. Komic, similar to what Stevanovic showed, happens to goods with KIM. It is written there by the country of origin – Kosovo. You're not laughing? You're shaking your head again. I told you, in 1981, it went to KiM for a plate of beans in a dormitory. Now they have a declaration from Kosovo. These of yours from Novi Sad are already announcing - the land of origin of Vojvodina. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, please pay attention to a member of the 19th law. Not the bill, but the basic text. He even has a title – Conditions for introducing quantitative restrictions. Quantitative restrictions on imports may be imposed in order to protect against excessive imports, in accordance with Article 34 of this Act. I'll explain this a little bit further. Terminated imports don't mean anything. It doesn't mean anything at all. Why are quantitative restrictions imposed when it comes to imports or exports? Because every normal state manages its balance sheets, its stock balances, its consumption balance. It puts first its obligation to provide balances for all horns and services. What's extra can go into export. Where we are unable to make our country, our own hands and our work products and goods, import is granted. Very simple and very simple. It is only necessary to manage the balance sheets and to prevent mangoons in ministries, outside-trade houses, customs and in monopolies, so as not to cause shortages or otherwise disrupt the market, where the need for imports or exports arises depending on this disorder. So, security of the balance of payments according to other members. The balance of payments is directly related to foreign reserves and foreign exchanges in the country. That, more or less, can be acceptable. It's just too much import is a bad time, because he doesn't mean anything. Further, you say - quantitative export restrictions can be introduced temporarily, in order to prevent critical shortages of basic products, or to mitigate the consequences of such shortages in the Republic of Serbia. Quantitative restrictions on imports or exports may be introduced in the case provided for in Article 11 of this Act in order to apply the standard or rules on classification and ranking, etc. Then the government, on a proposal from the competent ministry, introduces it. However, I claim that the previous formulation was much better. In the original text of the law, the formulation was much better and much clearer. Here you insert some terms that can be interpreted in multiple ways. I know that, it's your need and it's some other things we still can't influence. What's most important about these restrictions? So the balance of goods, the balance of service, the balance of consumption, that's the document. Who's doing that document at your government? Probably now that the Department of Trade and Agriculture has joined together, it's here. Probably. In some ways, energy is also asked, in some ways it is asked about the economy and economic resources and economic ministries. What's characteristic of the past 11 years? We were in a little bit of a situation to show the balance sheet that we could export. When our balances proved positive and we were able to export, there were affairs. Do you remember the sugar affair? Labus, Dinkić, etc. Sugar affair. Do you remember the affair with the export of agricultural food products? A kind of affair is what you did with your Russian partner. Apparently, you didn't know how to spray fruit, so it was returned. No one's going to eat poison goods. You thought someone was friends with us, so we could get him into anything and everything. And they have microscopes and they have labs. Only your microscopes and labs don't work when goods come in from abroad. Because you don't do microscopes and labs, so you're importing meat from Argentina. That's why the genetically modified soybeans came in, and who knows what came in. Let's say, if the minister were here right now, it would be interesting to ask him, from the balance sheet point of view, did he include production and consumption in KIM territory? What's worth is none of your business. You don't care about that at all. You're getting close to the election. Now you can change your hair, your shoes, pay for the commercials a little bit, take a picture with strangers how pro-European you are. But Europe is booming. You can see for yourself. How can we be serious and who are we serious about in this congregation? I've got a ton of stock here, a kilo, to open up the debate, and no one's gonna talk. That's why you're going to make your own programs now. Every day we demonstrate the SRS program in this assembly and there are no conversators. Then the people wonder what's happening to us. When the Bodrums can vote, be the government, then you know what the state is like.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63163	The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment to the SRS Parliament Club has been proposed to delete Article 21. The above mentioned Article 21 refers to the amendment of Article 48 of the basic law, by proposing to add a new Article 48a. where certain criminal provisions would be established for persons entering the wrong data in the application for authorisation. The SRS Parliament Club does not see a solution in high sentences, so we have also submitted amendments, counterpart Vladan Jeremic, colleague Buha and I, to members who talk about it and whom the Proposer is setting up some new penalties and increasing the amount of the existing ones. Otherwise, this bill is dominated by two things -- higher amounts of penalties and insistence on renaming the word "earth" in "state" or "tariff territory". What's that supposed to mean in practice? It is clear in the debate in principle, and now in this debate in particular he said and explained Mr Zoran Krasic. We know what the General Agreement on Customs Trade GAT implies under customs territory. I'm also sure the proposer of this law knows that and how well he knows it. He knows about the customs union institute and the free customs zones. We know about the case of a free zone in Thessaloniki, which has become an agreement between the former state of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and Greece, on the creation of a local zone in Thessaloniki. The free zone was laid down for a period of 50 years by the 1923 Agreement, where the state territory of Greece - Thessaloniki represented in economic terms the territory of our country, where economic and customs authorities, or the sovereignty of our country, applied. However, in the free zone, Greek authorities, i.e. the police, judicial and administrative authority of the Greek state. That's one thing. It is quite the opposite of what we now have in the territory of Serbia in the southern province of KIM. We have had the opportunity to hear that EU officials are calling for KIM to be customs territory in line with Resolution 1244 and say that some entity may be customs territory, although not recognised by all states, nor is it a member of the UN. The only thing they forgot was that jurisdiction has UNMIK and it is not intended for Kosovo customs officers to be at customs crossings and to use a customs stamp that is so insistent. Eulex replaced UNMIK as he replaced it. When we said it wasn't good, that it wasn't in Serbia's interest, the Serbian government wouldn't hear. We are now hearing stories about integrated governance by respecting European standards, and from day to day there is an increasing number of Serbian citizens whose definition is such that it is against Serbia's entry into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63165	The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63166	We have submitted an amendment to which these proposed amendments apply to criminal provisions and we have proposed that any changes that are proposed be deleted, i.e. things remain the same. Today there are very few who are from the real sector, which are the essence of our economy and economy, which are in a position to export because of the overall economic situation in which you have brought the state into your irresponsible behaviour. I don't think they should be stood up, as people say. Indeed, if there is a need to sanction someone through criminal or criminal provisions, it may not be bad, but here is a very interesting explanation that you are changing these provisions of the law because the law on the offence has changed. Then you write in that same explanation that the Law on Infractions was amended in 2009. The year 2011 is at an end and you are harmonising it with the Law of Infractions. Now, I would like to ask the geniuses of the government -- how could the state, contrary to the Law of Infraction, impose penalties since 2009? Now, you're so interested in the state, you're so interested in our domestic legislation, and you're so interested in building seriously mechanisms to protect the domestic economy and the domestic economy. In this law you wrote that these measures, the safeguard measures provided for in this law, must not be in a position to protect domestic producers and only because such provisions are in the international documents with which you align this. What do we care at this point? What serious and responsible state makes ad hoc laws just because it's written somewhere like that? These countries that force you to do this and commit you to, for which you want to accept them as partners, which are disgusted by Serbia and Serbia, these countries are developing mechanisms to protect their domestic production and their domestic economy. They are the creators of protectionism and protectionist measures. They did not create a world trade organization to destroy protectionism in their countries, but to remove that ballast for their goods in other people's territories. They built these mechanisms when they raised domestic production to that level, to cover all their domestic needs with their own production. What are we doing? You blew all over the mouth as privatisation was carried out and the largest trade chain in Serbia "Delta Maksi" and the other one was bought by Delez. You know what the press conferences say, "Delez"? We bought, we cut prices, and now Serbia is finally going to get food from Taiwan, so it's going to get, based on some of their brands, Belgian Euro cream, so it's going to get Belgian chocolate, so it's going to get this, so it's going to get that. Where is the Serbian producer and Serbian economy? Where's our political interest? Who can forbid us from protecting our own production? No one can, but we have a problem that you won't protect her. You won't protect her because your brain is in Brussels, not Belgrade. How much did you draw on the possibility of a favourable agreement with Russia? Six percent of Serbia's total exports go to Russia, but we depend largely on imports from Russia. Instead of using it, you poison the people and say that the flood will take place if we are not a candidate for the EU, for the EU, which is to Serbia as to last year's snow, which does not know what to do with its economic problems and difficulties, only you still need it, to draw on you and to improve our domestic production and economy. They can't, they can't do it, we have to do it. The SRS therefore draws a clear line between itself and you, which Serbia absolutely does not care about, you who are willing to give everything for one signature, not taking into account the consequences that Serbia's economy has and before obtaining that signature, the consequences of applying the transitional agreement, the SAA, where you, as well as I do not know who made customs rates twice as much as customs rates in EU countries. For who? For them or for us? You don't care about both domestic production and domestic trade. You're not interested in anything alive. You assure us that we need to pass the amendments to the law that came in two years ago. You've been negotiating with the World Trade Organization since 2004. How far did you get? What did you do? What principles have you used and improved the domestic economic environment based on negotiations with the World Trade Organisation, whatever our attitude towards it is? All of what you're doing today, you're only doing because these are suggestions from the United States, and that's what it says in the explanation, and the EU. Two states, or one union and one state that openly destroys our unique economic space. What about the state property of the Republic of Serbia at KIM? What about our economic resources down there? Our property is their Kosovo privatisation agency for taverns and sales. Did you raise your voice for that? That's what someone's separated for. That's what someone's invested in. Where do you get the right to give it up? Where did you get the right to give up, after all, the debts this country had due to investments in KIM? You've done everything very well and planned for the past 10 years, and you've put the state in the position it is. You've put us in a position where we're very trendy. You can talk and sell all the fog you want but what's important for the SRS is that in Serbia most citizens no longer believe that without the EU there will be a flood. Most citizens really believe that we do not belong there and that Serbia will live, if not much, at least twice as well as without this European path and without implementing European standards and European principles in the Republic of Serbia. You don't care about this law and the effects of this law, you don't care if the effects of this law fail. You're interested in election and survival in power. We sincerely hope, the SRS truly believes that with such irresponsibility and political impudence, indifference, it will be cleared up in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63167	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC PARTNERS AND CONCESSIONS. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milorad Buha, Dragan Stevanovic, Zoran Krasic, Vladan Jeremic, Dejan Mirović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dobrislav Prelić, Milan Škrbić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Popović, Dusan Marić, Dusanka Plecevic, Aleksandar Martinović, Boris Aleksić, Nikola Savić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Momir Marković, Srđan Spasojevic, Zoran Kasalović, Marko Djurić, Elvira Kovač, Balint Pastor, Lasslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and the Committee for Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Stevanovic has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63168	Minister, good afternoon. You say it won't be catastrophic, it'll be great. Minister, I must take advantage of your presence and ask you to answer why the declaration of the product in Serbia says that the country of origin of Vojvodina? In accordance with what law is that? If this is not in accordance with the law, I expect you to act. You've arrived just in time, so you don't forget it. Here, I'll give you this declaration later, I'll give you a business card, the address is Novi Sad, to look at everything, and to take measures in accordance with the law, because someone is destroying the economic integrity of the Republic of Serbia. If I'm wrong, please tell me. How can it be said in the Republic of Serbia that it is a product – a country of origin – Vojvodina? How is that possible? As for this public and private partnership, we said a lot in the principle debate. This is not a bad concept and the idea of a public-private partnership is not unacceptable for the SRS. But at this level of weakness of institutions in the Republic of Serbia, we believe that this can be produced and turned into something very bad and dangerous, because experience with public and private partnership models is mostly bad in Serbia so far. When there was a principle debate, there was Mr. Dulic. Mr Dulic said there is something good in Serbia, and I said on behalf of the SRS at the time – yes, there are some public-private partnerships that are not bad, but they are in a significant minority compared to those who are bad and very unfavorable, both for the citizens and for the economic interest of the Republic of Serbia. What is also important and should be said, as regards this public-private partnership model, it is on a very serious test in countries that have gone as far as possible, as far as public and private partnerships are concerned. There is one very interesting statistic that this country had to bear in mind when it entered into this writing or copying of this law. In the public sector in countries where this partnership model has been established to the greatest extent, I am not talking about Serbia, out of the total investment at the annual public sector level, only 4% are carried out through the public and private partnership model. It's almost meaningless. Nothing is meaningless, but it doesn't mean anything. Of which, 50% of these investments are carried out locally. When you look at the situation of today's public-private partnership at the local level, it's all defeat to defeat. I was in the principle debate, Mr. Minister, talking about Por-Veber-Webber. They are involved in the transportation, i.e. by treating solid waste, and I do not want to disqualify them as a company, but I am sorry that our country does not use all its mechanisms to force those who represent the private segment of this partnership to respect the commitments made under the contracts they have signed with our public sector. What's also a problem is that you could only get into this once you've solved the restructuring of the public sector, only when this country defines what we want to privatise, what we're not going to do, what we can offer as a private sector, that the activity of public and general interest is implemented by private persons, companies, private companies, and what Serbia will not offer with this model. But we don't seem to be interested in the state. Even if this law is the best in the world, even if it is the best and, Minister, you as a government have no interest in anything alive, especially now, a few months before the election. You're not seriously involved, except by promoting your own political parties that put you where they are. It is not abnormal in the electoral processes, but it is abnormal when those appointed to the most responsible state functions are not concerned about where they are located and what their jobs are, but with some other people's and other interests. Here, too, is now asking one question, you say that public private partnerships will be able to go on communal activities, the Law on Community Works has changed that. The Serbian Radical Party proposed an amendment that was in line with proposals on municipal activities, which eventually the government accepted, in fact wrote it themselves and accepted and limited the possibility that water supply could be entrusted to the private sector to carry out the work. In this law, it still stands. Now the government will remember again, so the Committee or the Government will write an amendment and change that member of the law, the Serbian Radical Party has suggested you change that, you did not accept that amendment. Why? There's been a break-up. We fear that, I repeat, because of the institutions that have been completely destroyed in the Republic of Serbia, this will go in a very unfavourable way. What is also important is the state-organised and organised experiences that public private partnerships and the most significant actions through this type of co-operation are carried out by ten companies from those countries. And if this is a vision of monopolies being created, if this is a vision that some things are regulated marketly, that is how the practice of orderly and serious states shows what is going to happen and how it is going to happen. In order to improve this kind of investment of development, improving the level of certain actions, one precondition must be fulfilled, which is that politically irresponsible people leave power, people who do not understand what the role and importance of the state is, defining these public private partnerships. What balance do you need here to make that, first of all, you would not undermine the interest of the state, the public interest and, on the other hand, create space and that the private sector is achieving its particular economic interest. That is why we believe that nothing good will come of it, not because the concept of a public private partnership is unacceptable to the Serbian Radical Party, but because it is for you who have destroyed the economy, which you have destroyed the institutions, which you have forgotten about the sovereignty of this country and which, simply, all in the last few days, months, you have submitted weeks to election campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63169	Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Nebojsa Ciric, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63170	Thank you. First, let me welcome the honourable Members of the people and, if I may, to answer a few things that I consider important, and you mentioned them. First, this law includes both concessions and a public private partnership. Everything that's been called a public private partnership so far isn't that. The public private partnership, as a concept, could not be implemented at all because there was no adequate legislative regulation. What was going on at the bar, and I think you said some examples, someone also called the public private partnership because there's some kind of contractual relationship between, for example. a public partner of local self-government and some private company. What I'm about to tell you, so far, we've had, in terms of this regulation, only the Treaty Act, which was adopted in 2003. From 2003 to today, we had five concessions, four of which failed. The most famous example is the concession for the Horgos-Pozega highway, which, due to a series of shortcomings eventually failed, the contract was terminated. This shows enough about what legislation has been so far. What you've asked as a question concerns communal activity. This law should allow, on the one hand, the implementation of national projects, in the sense of the Republic, but should also allow local self-government to make projects that have waited until now to be the government's priority, to finance, let's say, from the NIP, the widest possible consensus at the level of local self-government, which are municipalities and cities, should decide to initiate a specific project. On the other hand, we, this law, the team of people who wrote it, tried to avoid creating a new bureaucracy, new institutions, new agencies. The only thing we have imagined, instead of establishing a public private partnership and concession agency, is that we have incorporated into the law the assumption of a public private partnership committee, meaning that bodies that will make up professional people, not members of any political party, but experts from the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the mining, the communal activities for environmental protection, the autonomic province, the City of Belgrade and local self-government. What was the idea? The responsibility to launch the initiative, to nominate projects should be at the level of local self-government, to say: yes, we want to have an adequate dump in our city, we want to have a water treatment plant, we want to do a energy efficiency project, a public lighting project that needs to save 70-80% of the cost of electricity. We now have to ask the Republic Government, or there should be a list of priorities waiting. They now nominate projects, they initiate, of course and carry out the process, but eventually comes back to this commission. What we have built into this law, which is very important, is the principle of economic efficiency, to see if a particular project is cost-effective or not. On the other hand, we are the draft of this law, my personal opinion was, I participated in writing, I submitted to the widest possible public debate: Chamber of Commerce, Foreign Investors Council, European Commission, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, etc. We've analyzed all their comments, their suggestions, some of them in the final version of the law. In particular, what your colleague said, which refers to water supply, we have amended that part, water supply is no longer the subject of this law, precisely because of the concerns of certain people and the professional public over, at the end of the talks with the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, the trade unions of communal activity. As far as water use is concerned, in terms of water supply, it's out, so it's consistent with other legal solutions. The idea of this law is what you seem to have mentioned as an example. So far, at the level of local self-government, you've had some contractual relationship on allegedly joint investment, where local self-government gives, say, the work of waste management, waste management, etc. a private company and commits that this price will be marketable, and we all know that the prices of utility services in this country are below market prices. Despite all the gatherings, they are still below the market level. We have introduced this way, I would say a legislative framework to conduct the process in a transparent way, whether to grant concessions, whether to public private partnerships. To give a concrete example. If you now wanted to build a new school in some local self-government, you used to address the Ministry of the NIP or the Ministry of Education, someone else, in the republican budget, to provide money for the construction of the school. Now you, as a local self-government, a municipality or a city, can call, say an invitation to report interested, you will give land, a company or consortium that knows that they are doing this, domestic or foreign, by certain criteria they will be chosen to build that school, that school will be on welfare, a certain fee will be paid, and eventually that school remains local self-government. Whether the building of the school is economically cost-effective, whether the costs are okay, will eventually also give an opinion to the public private partnership commission. As you know, whenever I'm here I'm always willing to consider all the amendments for the second time and accept in the debate itself, which you know, because so far I've accepted some of your amendments, I don't think I have a problem with the company law and any other laws. I say, I think this law is enforceable, most importantly, giving the framework to work, that now the projects that were in the seal were waiting to be priorities, where there was no money but, after all, there were no mechanisms to do, now there would be possible to do these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63171	National MP Dragan Stevanović, according to this amendment, are you? There's no replica, the minister really just explained it in time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63172	Mr. Kiriq, I didn't say you wouldn't accept the amendment to the SRS now, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or yesterday, it doesn't matter at all. I tried to draw attention to you that we don't have a reservation to the public and private partnership model at all. We are not against the possible public sector and all that the public sector in Serbia is doing today, from business to institutions, to improving. But you've said a few things here that you've indirectly confirmed my position and position of the SRS, first of all, that in this country the institutions don't function. Don't tell me you didn't have the money, that you're promoting communal activity, or that you're acting out of general interest, in this country. That's what I said, 900 or how many hundred million you spent on Fiat. Is that the job of the state? It's not the business of the state, it's private investment. Serbia pays for a private company. Well, how much have you funded jobs politically inspired, not because it has some logic or because it has brought something good to Serbia? You've been boasting about 35 million investment, here's the pain of pucking 35 million. How many jobs? For 30-40 new jobs. It's not the state's job to fund Fiat and be a minority partner owned by that company. That's right, with the letters crossed. And that's not by any chance, because they've been kicked out of there, they haven't been given such privileges, so the protests today against that same man that you're hugging and signing co-operation and contracts, the biggest protests, are being held there. But it's not my idea to talk about it either. The point is that you haven't spent public money as needed, so after 10 years of your authority and European poisoning of this people and this nation, the minister tells us 6% of the water in Serbia is being purified. It's a public sector business in Serbia. This is why money is withdrawn from international financial institutions, i.e. investment funds, etc. It doesn't matter what we call them. It's the state's business. What do you now assure me, that through the model of public and private partnership, you will be building schools in Serbia tomorrow? What's the job of the state? What's the job of the state rather than making schools, and jobs are funded by investors who won't come to Serbia, because in 10 years you can't bring down time to issue a building permit under 130 days without saying 20, 60, 70 or 100. No one will come, Minister. He won't come because the executive verdict and the court's decision can't be carried out. Who's coming? No one's coming. It simply won't, because you don't care about the state and you don't care about domestic national interests. It's nice to be patted on the shoulders. It's nice to have your picture taken with them. Where is the people and where is the economic interest of the state? You're telling us now -- the 2003 concession law, five started, four not implemented properly. What's the problem? In law? Not true, but in your weaknesses and indifference. Whom did you seriously offer to come to this kind of investment and Serbia's investment comes? Today it's not so attractive or modern anymore. To a very different and large extent for different types of investment, people define themselves, but where they can invest. Now that they've all been squeezed by the crisis, no one's going to invest in this or that. He won't. There's just no way, everyone's looking out, and everyone's taking care of themselves and going where it's predictable. We were just talking about the law your guillotine unit insisted on. What did you do with it? These aren't our projects, these are your projects you've come up with yourself. You are now informing us that the models of public and private partnership at local level have been established by law. That's what the government minister says, and who's going to answer for it? Who will be responsible for the fact that a municipality suffers damage because a private partner does not respect contractual obligations? Well, your fellow ministers congratulated those local self-governments for stepping out, although there was no foothold in the law. So who's right here? Serbian Radical Party or you? What do you need institutions for? What do you need laws for? But we're also convinced that with this kind of legislation, there was a little more political and national responsibility you could have done a hundred times as much. What are you saying? Sixty kilometers for the entire government's mandate. Is that something to be commended to one government? But you owe the state five billion for the same time period. You know very well, no private can withdraw money from either the bank or the international financial institution, under the conditions under which the state can do so. The public sector is a matter of state. These are the resources that the state must cultivate, that heritage and improve, above all, and where it is not the work of the state, but you today in Serbia and you don't know what your interest is and what it isn't. You don't know if we're going to privatize electricity, whether we're going to privatize telecommunications, whether or not we're going to privatize education? But Minister, you can sell all schools and schools, private schools, raise the level of knowledge transfer to the highest possible level, but it's not the only point of function and the essence of a school. A bunch of other school functions should be performed, from raising national awareness, fostering traditional, national values, etc., etc. But you don't know what you want? The government doesn't know what they want? That's the problem, because the state doesn't care. We wouldn't have a public sector in what kind of problems it is that it's a different relationship between institutions. How is it possible that no public enterprise can go bankrupt in Serbia? So who's going to come to a state where bankruptcy and liquidation are unacceptable to a public enterprise? Who's going to come to that country? That there's a game here, on the same terms that they play the game. They won't, but they're the weaknesses of the government, they're not the weaknesses of the law. The laws are improved when they become tight for the needs of the state, for a sector, not because someone put a proposal there, so let's get us a signature on December 12th, that European agenda that has been implemented. You've passed a thousand laws, and you don't enforce two hundred. It's your weaknesses, and we can never accept it, nor support it. What do you tell us? Now the local self-government will be able to finance something on its own? She couldn't have done it by now. There was a problem because they were waiting for the government to approve them. How could that in some municipalities and not in some municipalities? Because only on the political line was it decided what would be financed and how it would be financed. So, all that makes today a collapsed public sector, it's the result of an irresponsible government in the last ten years, not the fact that it wasn't the law or it was. If it were public and private, you would have passed this law in 2003, 2004 or 2005. You'd bring it back in 2000. A bunch of problems you've left with us now that you're out of power. Someone else who had nothing to do with it will solve it. That was the problem, the political nature of you who have run the country for the last ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63173	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63174	I'll try to answer you. We started writing this law over a year ago, so I can't quite agree that it's part of the election campaign, it's number one. Number two, as far as your question is concerned, why can't public enterprises go bankrupt? Public enterprises can't go into bankruptcy anywhere in the world. And if they have a problem with functioning, especially public enterprises as the law defines them, which carry out the work of general interest, they can't go into bankruptcy, whether you like it or not. One thing is state-owned enterprises, social enterprises, that can go bankrupt. Public enterprises, and you know how many there are in Serbia, simply cannot go bankrupt. Number two, as to your comment that certain local self-governments were working under the law, if I may quote you, if I wrote correctly, I said these local self-governments were of course working according to the law using other laws to declare it a public private partnership. What someone calls it wrong, if that's, how can I tell you, a crime or a crime, that's another thing. They used, to say work, to do so in accordance with existing legislation. The second question is whether, in the process of implementing the specific contract, whether or not the elements of the crime are committed, but should be dealt with by the police, the prosecution and the courts. The next thing you know about privatisation, I think this government was very clear and explicit. We said the EPS won't be privatized, the Serbs won't be privatized. After Telecom was a privatisation. We set a minimum price, we didn't get it. We did not want to negotiate below the price of a billion and 400m euros according to which Telecom is not privatised. As far as the guillotine regulations are concerned, whether it's completely complete, I agree, it's not. So far, over 120 recommendations have been accepted. I didn't say the number, the people who do it said. The savings at the annual level are over 150m euros for the entire economy at the annual level. Whether there are recommendations that haven't been implemented yet, you're right, there are and there aren't few, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't accept something done, and on the other hand, maybe it's even more important that what we do is done. As for the school, I mentioned an example of the school in terms of building a school, building a building facility. It's an idea here. So far, you couldn't have done it unless someone gave you that money if you were local self-government. Now you have the opportunity to initiate yourself, to provide yourself with a place where our children in some local self-government will be educated. As for your question about Ball Packing, the state didn't even give the Ball Packing dinar. So Ball Packaging invested somewhere around 100 million before another 40m euros. Forty jobs, but you have some industries that are labour intensive, some that are capital intensive. The production of Ball Packaging cans is capital intensive. The latest technology with a small number of people. You have on the other hand working intensive like textiles, production of car cables or something else. There's a lot of people working here. I really think that in this situation, when the amount of money on a global scale is reduced by investment, we need to welcome the fact that one company has decided instead of doing it elsewhere in Serbia, expands the existing capacity and covers a larger number of countries. It sells on the Serbian market, but also sells on the market in Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia, Montenegro, Croatia. From this point on, cans from Belgrade "Ball Packaging" are exported to the surrounding countries and this has an impact on the trade balance. Now I'd like to come to our favorite theme of "Fiita." I'll tell you my confidence, business with the Fiat is good for the state. It's the biggest industrial project this country has in 10 years. Were we supposed to invest money? We own 33% of the company called "Fiat Cars Serbia"? Yeah, we should have. Does it cost you to bring in a multinational company like "Fiat" that's supposed to make 200 or 300,000 cars here? Costs, taxpayers' money. Romania offered what we offered. That's what every other country does now. How do you think "Kia", "Hjundai" and "Hundai" made their own, and why did they build factories in Slovakia? Was it just a good investment environment? No, they gave incentives and free land and infrastructure, roads, highways, they gave money incentives, like we did. We can say that we're not giving money to encourage investment, but, say, if Ball Packing should come and if he thinks it's okay to invest. I'll give you a few indicators, this investment "Fiat" and the Republic of Serbia is about a billion euros. Two and a half thousand people will work at the factory. At 500 metres from the factory is a park of suppliers where nearly a thousand other people will work, six companies. This factory when it starts working, and it starts somewhere in March – in April to work, when it has full capacity, all 12 months will produce 200 thousand. Capacity in potential could be 300,000 cars. Exports from that factory, ladies and gentlemen, were projected between the Fiats, not us, a billion and 300 billion and 500 million euros. If I tell you that the export of this country last year was about 7.2 billion, then you realize what effect only one factory will have on industrial production and on the export of this country. The International Monetary Fund said that from the moment the factory starts to work almost 2% of GDP, to be concrete, 1.7% will be and represent this factory. I think all of this I've said is enough reason for the Republic of Serbia, the government, the taxpayers to invest the money that will return. We'll take it out. You've got a bunch of small companies working for them. In the end, the "Fiat" effect and the fact that in this country there is a "Fiat", a "Beneton" or some where we gave a boost, produce in a positive sense the domino effect. After the start of the story with Fiat, you in this country have in the last three years over 110 new companies in the automotive industry. What do you think they only work for "Fiat"? No, I don't. So these 110 companies are exporting. Why did our rate of coverage of imports from Italy or Germany from 30 to 40, say, in the case of Italy came to 90 in the case of Austria at 60, Germany 60. Well, this country had export coverage two years ago 40%, and now we're over 60%. Is that a good result? Yes, it is. Can you do better? You got it. Let me tell you, now that I'm all talking about countries both Serbia and Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, we're competing to attract the few real production investments to us. Why did "Beneton" come here and invest 60-70 million, not in Croatia, where he already has his own business? Why didn't Fiat go to Romania? We need to be realistic. I say again, does that cost? It's worth it. (Zoran Popovic, from the scene: Because we give money. Of course we do, sir, money. Of course, taxpayers' money. Do you think anyone wants to come anywhere without asking for any incentive, not from us, from any country in the world? Well, the American state gives money to Mercedes to open a factory in one state. We didn't make up a pothole. I say it one more time, it costs, but give it to me when we have a discussion that we have an argument. What is the cost and which is the benefit of the benefits, specifically the stories of the Fiat for this country and for this people, is the question we need to ask. Don't look at just one side of the story or equations because it costs. On our money they invest three to four times as much, but on the other hand, the effect is what we do. I say once again, look at the final score and then we can say that this is useful for Serbia or not useful for Serbia. Once again, I'm going to tell you the "Fiita" project is the biggest industrial project and it is essential for both our industry and our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63175	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63176	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we usually get a report from the government with opinions on the amendments. When a minister comes to us here, so when he says - I am so approachable to co-operation, I will adopt the amendment for you, then take it from the reserve in the future, because the amendments just accept the government, not the ministers. That's the first thing. Now, you from G17 plus, when are you going to give those 1,000 euros? Don Ciric, and your partner Don Makioni, when are you going to give those 1,000 euros to the citizens of Serbia? What now? You don't know. Well, how don't you know, did Junior say he lied about Tadic being elected president? When are you gonna get that ink off that deal with Fiat? Now maybe you're talking here, nice expectations, so everybody's got nice expectations. If we compete in good expectations, I'll beat you in two classes. That's what I'm telling you in the beginning. But leave it alone, you G17 plus, you're already read. Now, since you're great experts, please, here, Mrs. Kolundzija, look at the government's opinion, under regular number six to regular number 17 and 18, 10 places write the same explanation - the amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting amendments under regular number 6. So much expertise, so many schools, colleges, certificates, 16 foreign languages, but I still don't know what to say, and the explanation of the amendment, the government's opinion is - for reasons of regular number 6. How are you not ashamed to go to the National Assembly? Pay a little more attention. Now, why didn't you adopt this amendment to me, it's not clear at all. This is Article 3. Look, I just wanted to give you a little attention to get better. I didn't want to touch an entire member, and the whole member, who's going to understand it, I don't know. It says - this law does not apply to public-private partnerships, and the Law is on public-private partnerships, with or without elements of the concession, if the establishment of a public-private partnership would require an insight into information, whose discovery would endanger the value of the Republic of Serbia. Two, three, I agree correctly with these three reasons, but were you not better off starting a sentence or a first sentence to be - in terms of this law, a public-private partnership is not considered, well, one, two, three and accept what the Serbian Radical Party has submitted to you under number four? What were we looking for under four? The subject of this partnership was the exploitation of natural resources, i.e. good in general use, which threatens the environment or could cause other adverse effects on human health. And what's wrong with the amendment? Can anyone say what's wrong with the amendment? You protect telecommunications, that they are not for a public-private partnership, we protect natural resources, good from general interest, which we consider not to be a public-private partnership, especially if there is a strong doubt that the environment can be endangered. Why didn't you adopt the amendment? What did we change from what you suggested? There isn't. What's the government's answer? Here's the expert, the one who whispers about this. It says - the amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting amendments under regular number 6 and that is the amendment of Milorad Vuka, and then for Dragan Stevanovic, for his amendment also because of Buh, Krasic too because of Buha, Jeremic because of Buha, Dejan Mirovic because of Buha, and probably Vjerica and yours, and even Arsen Djuric, an amendment for Buha, and Shkrbicev cannot because of Buha's amendment. What were you spending this paper on? Well, so much expertise. I want to take you to the European Commission, get them to take care of us, too. The stone won't be left of Brussels when you and your team cheat there. There's no way he's staying. When Don Jr., Don Boris, Don Makion, there's nothing to be. The whole of Serbia is waiting to take you out. Besides, you've got the certifications. The younger one was the best finance minister. He came from the People's Bank, though. Now there's something lurking around local communities. I see you're walking the streets and the flats next week. Something broke your policy. Something people don't believe you. Now, this public-private partnership, you've gone a long way, Mr. Kiric, to explain it. Where do you find a public-private partnership to be an investment in building a primary school? Based on what regulation did you come up with, when building these facilities is in the sole jurisdiction of the state and local self-government? Now tell me - what would be the interest of a private partner to participate in building a primary school that is a nonprofit institution? Why would he enter a partnership, contractual and institutional, and what interests would he satisfy, economic, financial, and others? Maybe he would show social responsibility, social solidarity, like "BK" had his own fund, so Miskovic has his own fund. But how much money, so much music. He's got a bank this big. When he gives you the bank, you have to pay him back a thousand. That's why they owe five billion euros to the state, based on taxes, contributions. When you see how much these tycoons owe us, we don't need any laws, we don't need Fiat either. Instead of Don Makioni, he could have been Don Miskovici. What's wrong? The batocin is very close to Kragujevac. He can show some social responsibility. He could show. Beko, Beko used to have experience there, he's that "Coral in." It was his, in his time. You had experts and em experts and em money, and they know how to export. How much did you say you were going to make vehicles? If I understand, 200 grand, that's what you said? I'd recommend you take your feet out of the laurels.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63177	Five minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63178	Mr. Krasic, sometimes it's hard for me to answer your questions easily. Let me start with what you last said. Those experts you called, they don't know how to make cars. This is a car factory. Fiat products don't know how many, a million and some cars and more a year. They took over that Kraissler, so now the Kraissler is positive. They're making the stuff someone wants to buy. "Coral in" and what you're talking about, the southerners that cost five, six thousand euros cost to build, and sell them four thousand, with a subsidy from the state. So that we wouldn't do it, subsidize every car plus salary in that flag, plus water, electricity, etc., we decided on a slightly different concept, to bring here one of the world's best car manufacturing factories, in terms of crisis one of the three that's a profitable factory, so they're going to make it, because they know it a little better than we do, both of you and me. Now let's get back to the subject of the law. First I'll tell you a less important thing. You were irritated that we said that your amendment, Mr. Krasic, was not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting Amendment 6 and you did not just read what it said. That is what it says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendment are not seen. So the same explanation applies to the other amendments. What I said, why didn't I accept your command, I'll read it again. Your proposal is to add point 4 to Article 3 after point 3) which is the subject of this partnership, was the exploitation of natural wealth, i.e. good in general use, which threatens the environment or could cause other adverse effects on human health. The amendment cannot be accepted because in Article 27, which says – the proposal for a public private partnership project must contain, and in point 7 says – the environmental requirement in terms of working conditions, safety and health protection and the security of employees employed by a private partner. So we can't accept your amendment because we've already defined Article 27 and some other members, specifically in Article 27, what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63179	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available for the parliamentary group is 24 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63180	This last thing you said was no reason to refuse, but a reason to accept. Secondly, Mr. Kiric, where did you come up with the idea that I liked "Coral In" and that I was talking affirmatively about it? I didn't talk about Miskovic and Bek as people who catch a hammer and knock on the sheet and make a car. I also talked about Makioni as a man with money, so I talked about these two who have money. This wasn't hard to understand what I told you, but someone seems to have told you that you need to manipulate yourself a little before this election, that little if you can twist the media so that something can. When are those thousand euros coming? Five million people waited for that thousand euros. Some people got involved. Someone borrowed, someone took a loan in anticipation of those thousand euros in free stock. And then Junior says cool -- people, I lied about my Tadic being elected in the second round. Now I'm right to say, what are you talking about? You can say in two months - I had to, Mr. Krasic, in the Assembly so I could bite my fingernails and share this information, because it was of a higher interest. What higher interest? We don't know. We can assume. Where did you get the idea that I praised "Coral in"? But to tell you the truth, I don't even know what's going on with those old machines. Did you sell it in iron or leave it on the side? If you've left aside, give these auto mechanics and these young engineers just to redesign and fix the issue of first installment, so it'll be five times better car than the one that "Fiat" makes there. Five times it'll be a better car. That's for sure. Our young engineers take as prize designers in the world. Just to solve the issue of first installment, so it's standardized today. You know, the shock absorbers burn in two places, two lamelas, the "Boss" electronics, and so on. etc. You're making some kind of car science. Those people are laughing at you in Kragujevac. You organized the testing, so you fired the people, or they didn't pass the test of the people who made the maltenes the flag. And who's past? Your experts. Don't forget, in 2001 some fled the factory circle of Zastava - and Djelic, and Pitic, and Vlahovic. Three. Take care, you advertise a lot about the Fiat. Kragujevci can be awkward. Don't rip you over the fence out there. Anything can happen to you. Take care. I'm glad you're all very boastful. Whatever you're boasting about, I'm getting a stronger argument. I don't care if this doesn't work out, just so we understand each other, but keep your promise. Take care of what you say. In the end, mark that contract, let's see what's in there. You're transparent. Mr. Kiric, when you meet Junior Dinkic, behind you, while you open. Ask him where the money from Cyprus is. That money from Cyprus, ask him where they are. Ask where the money is from Cyprus, not Don Makioni, etc., Don Gigi, etc. Don't do that, it's been a euphoria in Serbia. More on skating variations, more on nice promises, more on your recommendations to the European Commission, no one is paying any more attention in Serbia. What's more, whatever you're talking about, you're making us a bigger commercial for us from the SRS. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63181	Three minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure have been tabled by the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad on Article 11 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 13. The amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ciric, for a little while Zoran Krasic points out what you have answered in your explanation, and skips me, the same explanation is probably a coincidence for my amendment. You just said that, in your explanation, there are no reasons for accepting the amendment. I'd say here in my amendment you can see the reasons for accepting the amendment. Especially since it says "rightly so" add the words "after the rejected consent of the competent ministry". It's something that's absolutely right for you and all the resors that are holding G 17 plus. Answer whom You will, whom You will not answer. Undo the privatisation wherever you want, where you see your interest, first of all. Where you don't see any personal interest, you just don't want to answer. At least you can do well to answer. What about the items that stand with you in the ministry? You just don't want to give an answer. That's what we talked about, Mr. Minister. You told me you canceled your privatisation at the Hipol. All right. You've installed absolutely all your personnel. Be God of man. Rajka Simina as director, and the man has taken severance three times. Mr. Minister, three times. You don't think there are any other experts in our community? What about the privatisation of agricultural cooperatives, where the owners of agricultural land and where the law is explicit, that a stranger cannot own a farmland? Mr. Minister, who can trust you? Yesterday at your promotion, you said Serbia was going the wrong way. Mr. Civic, we've been telling you this for 11 years. Who can trust a man who's preambled "a fantomist on his head"? Who can trust a man who's written "a sock on his head" in the preamble of CV? How can you convince our citizens that someone can trust you at all? What's in your closets, you just don't want to give answers. Now all of a sudden, the DS isn't answering. Mladjan Dinkic himself said he had to lie for a thousand euros. Yesterday he said that whoever's holding the wheel is responsible. He probably meant Boris Tadic and DS. (President: National MP, Member 106, if possible on the amendment. Who's holding the gearbox? I think you should think about it, because this only suits you. The law on public-private partnership, "Srbigas" already applies it, in advance. She'll adopt herself here. 11m euros are invested without public procurement. The dig is being gassed in the municipality of Odjaks. The city council has made a decision. Imagine, choosing a contractor, which is contrary to public procurement. You've simply exhausted all the loans. Absolutely no one can trust you anymore. The fact that you specifically said that Serbia is going in the wrong direction, 11 years we've been telling citizens and citizens will know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63183	People's MP, you're going in the wrong direction when it comes to respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You know that's why I'm obliged to give you a warning measure. I'm obliged to give you a warning measure. So I suggest you take a look at the Rules of Procedure and read the Rules of Procedure's obligations when it comes to the item of the agenda in the first position and read the obligations of the chairman in the second position. Minister Nebojsa Ciric, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63184	Thank you. I wouldn't comment on these parts that aren't about the discussion, you know? You'll allow me, as far as the Hippopolis is concerned, for disrespect of the treaty, the two of us in this house have spoken and the contract is broken. That's number one. Number two, as regards the agricultural cooperatives you mentioned, agricultural enterprises in general, the Privatisation Agency has initiated a break-up of a large number of enterprises. These enterprises, agricultural holdings, buildings, etc. are now united in something called the green path. These company groups are now hiring people again. Where those in prisons or escapes drove them out of work, there's cattle there now, there's grains, there's new equipment. These 15 companies are now working positively. So much for that. As for what you said in general, the gasification of some municipalities without public procurement. You see, we in the Public-private Partnership Act predict that nothing can be done without public procurement, just so we don't get into a situation, or anyone at all, I don't understand who, that anything is done without public procurement. Now specifically, what you would say on the subject, this amendment of yours would change the essence of the law. We didn't, here I personally didn't want to centralize everything by this law, that every concession, public-private partnership, whatever you want, would decide again at the level of the Republic. There are projects that are local character, there are projects that are regional character, and there are national ones. Those projects that are of national character, they will be asked about by the Government, and for projects, what I said -- the school, it wasn't about private schools, it was about public schools and not about our children paying to go to these schools that would be built as buildings and physical halls through a public-private partnership, will not cost our children, yours and mine. On the other hand, I have to tell you, if I were to accept this amendment, I would change the essence of the law. Here's the idea next. I'll try to explain it very plastically. Local self-government has projects done, ready. Call a public call, i.e. Public procurement and says - let's see who's adequate who can join us in a partnership relationship, is it a school, a wastewater treatment plant, energy efficiency, whatever you want? For this consent gives, not the president of the municipality or mayor, the assembly. It is the widest form of consensus that can be achieved locally by most votes. When it's prepared, it's going to be on the commission that we've predicted here, which should say whether the project is cost-effective or economically efficient. If I, someone else, anyone else in the government, need to go back to every project, now for someone to renovate that school or build it, there's got to be some ministry to ask. Why? What's this all about? (Zoran Krasic: It does not appear in the law. It says in the law, Mr. Krassic. Read the law a little bit... (President: No direct communication, please. I've listened to you, so please listen to me. I didn't interrupt... (Zoran Krasic: What do schools have to do with it? ) (President: No direct communication, with a warning for participants in the session. MP Zorana Krasic, I warn you of violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Set up the ministers. Thank you. That's how much I wanted to say. So, I can't accept this amendment just because it's going, I'd say, against the very essence of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63185	Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic together submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63186	Mr. Minister, the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions that we are talking about today in this debate on amendments, the whole text of the law actually carries out what your party represents, which is regionalization. These are certainly some arrangements within the current coalition in power, and that is the answer to what you colleagues just tried to answer. You're pushing through it to actually regionalize. This law is also the reason that, I think, the ideal opportunity, finally, for the sake of the public, you say what it says in that contract with the "Fiyat" that we saw in one newspaper the other day, where it's all blacked out as in the indictments of the UN tribunal, where the defendant doesn't even know why, for example, in the case of Vojislav Seselj, it's in contempt of the court, where he gets a warrant, where he doesn't even know what he's accused of, and this contract with the "Fiita," where no one really knows what the contract says. I remind you of that famous Velja concession agreement with Alpina and POOR. It also appeared to the public completely black text, only to see who the concession contract was concluded with, and when it came to what was actually written in the contract, the contract had to be terminated. This one of yours may not have to be broken up, but let's make it known, let's see what this is about, and if it's really a contract that can survive in the legal and economic system of the Republic of Serbia. Article 18 to which the SRS has submitted an amendment in paragraph 2 is, in fact, Article 18 refers to the time limit on which the public contract is concluded. In the second position, you predicted that this deadline could not be shorter than five years, not longer than 50 years, with the possibility of concluding a new contract after the end of the agreed period, with the choice of a private partner, in a manner prescribed by this law. We in the SRS believe that this 50-year-old deadline should be reduced to 25 years. We wrote in the explanation that we believe it is necessary to reduce the number of years proposed and propose a more appropriate, more comprehensive and time-consistent deadline. You are saying that the amendment cannot be accepted for reasons for which no amendment to Article 6 has been accepted, and in that explanation, we have heard that, the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendment are not seen. You can really see how you're playing with the National Assembly here. Our argument is the same as the government's argument. You think it's more appropriate than 50 years, we think it's more appropriate than 25 years, you think it's a more comprehensive 50-year term, we think it's a more comprehensive 25-year term. So our arguments are the same, except that you've been in these arguments for 50 years, with us for 25 years. Then how can you insult parliament in this way and say that there are no reasons why the amendment should be accepted? You can say you don't accept the amendment because you've estimated that it's 50 years more celery. You are proposing a law, the assembly majority is adopting it, and it is absolutely your right, but you must not mock the MPs and you must not mock parliament. It's not the first time you've made fun of the MPs. It has been there since this government, not only through the interpretation of the amendments, you are playing with the National Assembly by announcing to us one minister, but another by not having held a session of the Assembly because no one, or one working day, has come to ruin because no one from the Government, so we are discussing amendments and a principle debate – there is no one from the Government, so 10 days in a row listen to the government bring, adopt the text of some KIM declaration, so the President of Parliament through the media informs us that this session will be held during the week, on Saturday, so on Monday, there is none of it because the assembly is being brought into play by music played by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's inadmissible. Yesterday another scandal took place, when we read in the media in the morning that if the proposal arrives by 12 o'clock, that we will discuss it today and then Boris Tadic shows up on First TV and says that negotiations from the declaration can continue and then the speaker of parliament appears directly in the RTS daily to say that we can and without a declaration. It is an absolute scandal and another piece of evidence, and we have long tried to explain, above all, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the dictatorial authority of Boris Tadic, who manages both the assembly and the government, and that is unacceptable. Maybe I'm a little off topic here... (President: Yes, you're pretty far away, so please come back.) )......................................................................................................... But I'll be back anyway. Thank you very much, see I'm following the course of my thoughts, Mrs. Comic. (President: We both follow. So we don't accept your argument. We can accept that you will not accept the amendment, it is your right, but we do not accept the argument because it is offensive, not only for the SRS parliamentary group, it is offensive to the National Assembly. I'm sorry, but your behavior, Mrs. Comic doesn't see you because there's no mirror in front of you, your laughter in the face of the MPs is also wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63187	People's MPs, you can't disqualify and insult someone for smiling. I ask you to make sure that you're already away from the topic, that we agreed on it and that you don't disqualify people and that you don't bring out a smile on a bad voice. Smile is a good thing. And you stick to the Rules of Procedure. I see, and you're smiling now, because you're glad to know the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63188	Therefore, the deadline on which the public contract is concluded, according to the position of the SRS, must be reduced so that it cannot be longer than 25 years, especially as it stands, and we did not touch it – the possibility remains to conclude a new contract with the choice of a private partner after the end of the contract period, in a manner prescribed by this law. We don't see why it's controversial to adopt that amendment? Why are we leaving this 50-year-old deadline unchanged? It's a lot. It's a lot that any job is at stake. That's why we don't think the essence of the law would change. So, in addition to this possibility from the follow-up to Article 2, Article 18, the text is not touched in any way by the essence of the law, but legal certainty is being created, Mr Ciric, the legal certainty needed by the state of Serbia. You know, or the citizens of Serbia know, you may not accept, that there is no legal certainty in Serbia at all, that there is no rule of law and that unfortunately we are not a legal state. How are we going to be, when you're doing things this important? So, only from legal certainty, integrity, we suggest that you adopt the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63189	Six minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a minister, Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63190	Mrs. Radeta, I didn't mean to offend anyone in this distinguished home, but I really don't see what's offensive in the explanation that says, "Amendment is not accepted for reasons why there are no reasons for not seeing the necessity of adopting the proposed amendment"? Which is offensive that I won't accept that a maximum, or deadline under this law can be between five and 50 years, in some cases. One who proposes a project with his partners should explain to the relevant state body why the deadline is 30 or 50? You'll have six years, or five years. So, we've only given flexibility here. What you're saying -- why don't we say 25 and plus 25, because we've predicted by this law that if we need to extend the contract, there's a public procurement going on again, etc. That's exactly why, for legal certainty. So, so far, the concession law has determined that the maximum deadline has been 30 years. We believe that in certain projects, for example, the construction of a hydropower plant, whatever it is, it cannot be for 25 years and that such projects require a much longer term. There is something called the return rate on investment or investment capital. Thus, it is seen how much time it will take to make an investment worthwhile and what it costs. Some projects require a longer term. This deadline is not arbitrarily my own or the people who wrote the law, this is the professional public proposal and we have accepted it to be 50 years. Of course, it's in some cases. You will have projects that will be implemented for six years, five, 10 etc. So, we just left the possibility. And in order for someone to come and get the agreement that some of the projects under this law in terms of public-private partnership and concessions are being implemented within 50 years, it has to be explained. But the explanation implies, Mrs. Radeta, the figures. You have to have the numbers, why something pays for 50 and not for 30 or 10. Who knows how to read numbers, he'll know to say whether the deadline is adequate for 30 or 50 years. So, we just left it free. And what you're saying -- 25 years ago, I can accept it as your argument, but as proposed by this law, 25 years later, public procurement goes again, precisely in terms of legal certainty. That is why we said – in exceptional cases there is a possibility of 50 years. Once again, I don't really see, Mrs. Radeta, what is offensive in the explanation why the amendment is not accepted? I don't know what kind of explanation we should write? So we said it was unacceptable for us. We wrote this law and we think it should be 50 years. You think it should be 25. It's an exchange of views. I have read your amendment as well as the people who wrote the law and that we will not accept the amendment is not offensive. We simply think that it is better to leave a longer period of time to allow for the realisation of investments that are, for example, extremely high value and the period of return of investment significantly longer than the standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63191	National MP Vjerica Radeta and MP Zoran Krasic have a word. Time is available for 13 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63192	Do I have the right to a replica since the minister spoke directly to me? (President: You really don't have the right to replicate because the replica needs another basis, except for the expression of the name. All right, I'll speak very briefly. Mr. Kiriq, I just hope you're pretending not to understand what we've told you. You yourself have explained why your argument is offensive. You've now explained what makes you think that deadline should be 50 years. We still think it's inappropriate and what is this job you've been planning for 50 years? No matter what business or investment or project it's about, it's unacceptable for us, stupid, slow and whatever you want. But if you had written what you just said as a last sentence – it is unacceptable for us, then none of us would have said that you were insulting parliament. You have the right to say that it is unacceptable for you, but you have no right to say that we have not explained why we want 25 years – that is because it is acceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63193	The word comes from MP Zoran Krasic, 12 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63194	The one from the authorized representative? (President: You have used all the time you have at your disposal. Then I'll do it for a while. Of course, Mr. Ciric made an effort to give the opportunity to answer. You took a bad example, you took the construction of hydrothermia, and you said, "The deadlines are longer for this investment, so you ended up – when 50 years pass, then we will re-order." It doesn't make sense to each other, but it doesn't matter. However, let me just distract you, why is it better that these deadlines are shorter? Here, because you did not pay attention to the amendment submitted by the SRS, that is, MP Vladan Jeremic, who wanted to specify a little bit what you stated in Article 7(1) concerning the definition of a public private partnership. He suggested that it begin this way – the public private partnership within the meaning of this law is long-term, Mr Kiric, business, economic and financial co-operation, because in this way it defines the interest of a private partner in the first place. The interest of a private partner, Mr. Ziric, is profit. The tycoon's interest is to protect his capital, not to fail them, to invest in real estate safe jobs. The interest of the tycoon, which pushes this law, is to nest next to public enterprises and to have daily opanage, plumbing, sewerage, electricity, telephones, roads, streets, cleaning, manure, etc. They want to establish a new monopoly, and you're saying that the state doesn't have money for such extensive investments and then you're dispersing according to the regionalization system, which is EPP, G17 plus. That's the whole operation. This law is not necessary at all. We have the Law on public enterprises and activities of general interest that allows private capital to be involved in the activities of general interest and we have the Law on concessions. No, you want institutionally to strengthen the tycoons created, to provide safe jobs, and at first you said that these services are ultimately paid by citizens and that these services cannot be paid by market criteria today and will never be paid by market criteria. Nowhere in the world these services are paid on market criteria, always local self-government or state subsidies, in all countries of the world. There's a difference, California, there's a difference there in the U.S., where individualism is up to the board, where all the plumbing and sewers are in private property, etc., etc., and you want to throw something in. When you say 25 years, you say you haven't explained it. What are you explaining in the bill for 50 years? Estimated. Well, we've given an assessment, too. We've given an estimate for the amendment to run out, to see what's hiding, what's going on behind this. That's what's wrong. Any private person, legal person, natural person or private capital if he wants to interfere with state capital in the conduct of certain transactions, accounts for profits. At first, maybe not, but as time goes by, the profit counts for extra profit. In some countries, Western Europe earns 3% is a huge profit. In Serbia, tycoons will not sign if there is no more than 25%. And you, as you represent, you G17 plus push that tycoon current, now behind the big words, and the public, and the private partnership, and the concessions, and the consortium, and this, and that. You think now in Serbia you don't know what's behind this. Well, it's hiding the same thing as it was -- 1,000 euros in free action. Same thing. Under this law, no investment will be made. No contract will be concluded under this law, especially after today's debate, because this in the beginning means crime. If someone thinks that kind of crime can legalize the way, apparently, the law, is wrong, because even with this law in a few months, the health of God, to get information out -- we had to do that, because it was on that list for the European Union. We know it's no good, but we put it on the list or, as someone said, someone put it on the list, so someone from the European Commission doesn't say - we're from here ourselves. That's how the Restitution Act, the Public Property Act, and what we know at the outset is wrong. This is what you know in the beginning that nothing is right. Nothing's gonna happen. Neither will the law be applied nor can it be applied well, because there is conflict of two great interests. The private capital that wants to earn and to fertilise and the state capital that needs to withstand all the impact of the economic crisis, so that the infrastructure of social, municipal and all other needs of citizens will be met as cheaply as possible. All our local self-governments subsidize, almost total municipal consumption subsidized. We have completely two different processes, so in terms of subsidies of municipal services to citizens and according to municipal enterprises, we are now throwing out a mix with private capital, which is cruel, which wants to earn money. We don't mind private capital, but this is impossible to control after. Why? When that private capital prevails, then that private man will have his own local self-government, and then you will change the Law on selecting the MPs, then the Law on selecting the council members, and every criminal will be able to have a majority in the National Assembly, or in the local self-government unit assembly, and the citizens expected to get them, that they will be better, will have to pay a lot more. Here, the first area where you could apply this idea of mixing private and state capital - cable TV. Why didn't you do that? But no, there was a strong team finished and all cable TVs were private. Today you pay for the number and pay for the cable. You're not mad about paying for cable, and you're angry about paying for a counter. You see how that spins in an hour, state and private, you see. That's the hoax you're offering, of course from whom you'd rather than from G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63195	Seven minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63196	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, I believe that perhaps a good amendment would be, that this amendment would say that the lease should take 30 years. This 30-year lease, and at all that 30-year-old duration, I think it would be good to consider it as a fruit of the experience of an expert political party, which the Master's building gave itself for a period of 30 years. Who did these experts who gave themselves to the Master's building for a period of 30 years? They've come to the conclusion that it's a great time frame, that it's a good time period, what, 50 years? If they had known there was a 50-year deadline, they would have given 50 years, but they didn't remember. Now that they're in opposition, their 30-year-old deadline is no good. When they settled themselves, when all their needs were over, when they pushed their hands deep into the people's pockets, they now have and what concerns about the people's register and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, now they and how worried they will be about the deadlines. That partnership they patented on the magistrate's building, so it's the highlight of honor, when it comes to state property. But unfortunately, I say, this is where the legislator predicted a 50-year term. I think they're complaining bitterly now, or they're crying on the Danube coast, where they cry when they lose the election to us, that they haven't remembered there's a 50-year deadline, so I say it's a good 30-year deadline. And that's not what I'm saying, that says the experience of experts in the kidnapping of people's property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63197	One minute and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Time is available for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63198	Mrs. Comic, let me just complete the discussion on this amendment. It's all patented by DS with a lease contract in Kronska, so everyone's after "kopi-paist," so don't get uninformed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63199	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63200	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I have tabled concerns Article 23(2) of point 1) of the draft law on public-private partnership and concessions. Article 23 regulates the issue of deadlines in the procedure of granting a public contract for a public-private partnership. Point 1) provides for a period of 52 days from the date of publication of a public call as the shortest time limit for receipt of tenders. The legislator believes, apparently, that according to some secondary sources of EU law, it takes 52 days for one who wants to apply for a public invitation to review the offer to draw up his application for participation in a public call. I believe that a 52-day period is inappropriately long as the shortest time for receiving offers and I suggest that that deadline be 30 days, as something that is much more logical and appropriate. Somewhere in 52 days, an accelerated system learns a foreign language, and you suggest a 52-day deadline for someone to put together a public call application, just because an EU official invented that it takes exactly 52 days to make up a application. In order to justify the existence of the EU, their corrupt bureaucracy must invent its own business. That is why there are regulations on everything and everything, and the most pointless rules, such as rules on the appearance and size of bananas and cucumbers and rules on mandatory toys that must be given to pigs in the soil. Our ordinary man cannot understand that the EU has spent millions of euros on pointless projects, such as building a fitness centre for dogs or a hip-hop research laboratory. It may take them 52 days, but our terms are much more appropriate than 30 days, which I have proposed with my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63201	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63202	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has proposed that the shortest deadline for applications for participation in a restrictive procedure for the conclusion of a public-private partnership be 37 days from the date of the public call. We of the SRS have suggested that this deadline of 37 be reduced to 30 days. But now I see that we could suggest that that deadline be, say, 29 days six hours and 17 minutes or 33 days, five hours and 43 minutes. You're probably wondering why, for what reasons, this deadline? For the same reasons the Government proposed this 37-day deadline. I'm convinced that neither the minister nor the people who wrote this law know exactly why the 37-day deadline. Why is that deadline optimal? Why, for example, isn't it 35 days or 40 days? It's easier to remember. When writing the law when certain deadlines are set, these deadlines are usually expressed for weeks, months, or the exact date is set, or the deadlines are the numbers that are rounded by fives, tens, hundreds. I've never really read a law where a 29-day deadline, 33 days or 43 days is determined. I thought those who wrote were joking. We played a little bit, the law was boring, because they prescribed it from the EU so, like, let's put something of our own into it. However, as Mr Markovic says, they have installed it, and this is evident from the government's reasoning. The government says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why deadlines are in line with secondary sources of EU law. What a beautiful formulation and very understandable for Serbian citizens. I draw attention to the fact that these people from the EU are really narcissistic, but I don't think they're crazy enough to set 37-day deadlines. Secondly, I'm curious if they suggest that we go down here right now, would you accept that? Third, I remind you that we are not yet members of the EU. Fourthly, I really don't understand why you're so busy with the EU, calling on the EU. I don't know if anyone in their right mind is rushing into a building that's collapsing, shooting at all the stitches, absolutely. So, according to your research, 54% of Serbian citizens are against Serbia's entry into the EU. If it's your 54%, then it has to be 64%. So two-thirds of Serbian citizens will not hear of the EU, and you are passing laws and refusing this amendment with an invitation to the EU. You expect this positive opinion on Serbia's bid on 5 December. Two thousand and nineteen years, you expect the date of the start of the negotiations. In 2389. Serbia will become an EU member. And only then, so when we mark a thousand years of color in Kosovo, then we can accept one such explanation by calling on the EU. But since you and I both know that the EU will not exist for 10 years, then this explanation is completely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63203	One minute and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The minister wants a word. I'm just asking you to sign up for the Minister. Nebojsa Ciric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63204	Thank you. Let me tell you, first of all, as far as the EU is concerned, they are in crisis, but I haven't seen anyone enter the EU now asking to come out. I didn't really see that happen. Probably, if it was that bad, everyone would be running from the EU. But, okay. I'll answer your question directly. Our so far, legislation always recognizes, I'd say, round deadlines 30, 40 days. This explanation is secondary, in particular, an EU directive that regulates public procurement. Since it has been shown in the EU, whether we love it or not to like it to be adequate for 37 days, we have accepted it and that is why we have put 37 days, it is an EU directive, not because it is a directive, but because these directives are made based on experience in real life. And that's the minimum time limit, I'm reminding you of the minimum time limit. That's why it's been 37 days, not because someone played, joked, or accidentally wrote 37 for 30. No, we put 37 days on purpose. Once again, in the context of secondary legislation, EU legislation is a specific directive governing public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63205	National MP Dusan Maric, time available for three minutes and 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63206	Just for a little while, I asked why this 37-day deadline. I received the following answer, and I quote this because of the citizens of Serbia, and I quote, "It is about the EU directive". This is another crown recognition that these laws are passed by the Brussels directives.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63207	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63208	So they don't have a word called the term regulation. They read the regulation, the directive and it's called the directive. It's not about the oral directive. It's about the legal act. We have something called law, sublegal acts within the meaning of the regulation. They have sublegal secondarys and what's written in the explanation, the directive, it's called, and I'm just quoting. So it is not about the directive, to clarify clearly, not by directive, but in accordance with a sublaw of the EU which is called the Directive, rather than a regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63209	The 23rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63210	The amendment proposes that Article 23(2), point 2. The bill of law says 40 days, replacing words with 30 days. This is about reducing the time limit for receiving offers and applying for a public-private partnership. Why are we proposing this shorter deadline? From experience with unsuccessful privatisations, with unserious and unreliable offers and bidders, such as in the event of an attempt to privatise the Bor mining-topic base, by the Austrian Atheque or the Romanian Upprom, when there was an unnecessary extension of bid deadlines. We know that the long term leads to the entanglement, the complexity of the whole procedure, and the abandonment of serious competitors. The whole sale of this giant was meant to give up a serious customer because it was predetermined who could buy the mine at the lowest cost. Better say give those gifts to some public well-being of all Serbian citizens. It was just done by Mr. Ciric's party, the G17+ now called the URS, and now presents itself as the savior of the combination. The same applies to the deadlines for public-private partnership and concessions. In the short term, as I propose this amendment, it would also be avoided by a public or private partner who would be certain that it is a non-adapted procedure. In addition, he is interested in a serious partner and is informed in advance of all the details relating to the specific work and has ready all the documentation that is attached to the competition. In Serbia, we have the practice of being so-called. The democratic power since 2000 very quickly and easily, so to speak overnight, has found common interest with private partners in many areas, such as road infrastructure, Chume and other or exploitation of raw materials, are examples of quarryes. In such jobs, the government establishes a very close and fast partnership with individuals, much easier than with its poor and robbed citizens who have brought their politics to the brink of survival or our people in Kosovo and Metohija who are fighting for naked life on their hearths. The proposed deadline of 30 days is more justifiable and consistent, and for 40 days you can only give to the acquittal companies in which the bankruptcy mafia entered. The reason for not accepting the amendment is particularly inspiring to comment. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why deadlines are consistent with secondary sources of EU law. It's exactly the same explanation as the last amendment. These empty, crazing fossils of alleged pro-European experts should probably bring a point to their writer in Brussels, otherwise in Serbian it doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63211	Thirty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pjecic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pjecic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić and Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić and Aleksandar Pejčić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić and Aleksandar Pejčić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapčević Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 60th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure have been tabled by the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad to Article 60 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63212	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the SVM MPs have tabled an amendment to the bill we are discussing today. Namely, our complaint referred to the composition of the control body, the public-private partnership committee. Namely, this commission has nine members and of those nine AP members has the right to propose all one, the city of Belgrade has the right to propose all one, and the other members, means seven members, the Commission for a Public-private Partnership would be proposed first by the cabinet of the Prime Minister and on a proposal from all other ministries. Our objection was that the stake of Vojvodina in Serbia's economy is much higher than this percentage, one in nine. I'm interested, Mr. Minister, in all praises for your participation in the debate today, in answering questions that you as a minister who comes from a party that advocates decentralisation, how do you explain that Vojvodina, from which 40% of our country's exports, deserves a sacred place on this committee? Our proposal was to insert another on the AP proposal instead of one member of the commission to go to the cabinet of the Prime Minister. So we wouldn't tear down that concept, we'd have nine members left, with Vojvodina having two, and the cabinet of the Prime Minister wouldn't have one, because it's also uncomprehensible what the cabinet of the Prime Minister means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63213	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63214	As far as I'm concerned, we've been erasing the cabinet of the Prime Minister, standing only by the Prime Minister, so we've accepted that part. Here we have listed six ministries which, in our opinion, represent – economics, finance, infrastructure, mining, municipal activity and environmental protection. The Commission, which will be educated or formed after the adoption of the law, to return to the beginning of this debate, should consist of experts who will look at economic efficiency, the economic aspect of the project. On the other hand, I hope that you will agree with me, this law has been provided for projects in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which are being launched by the AP. The agreement that the government is an AP. There are, of course, the national Republic of Serbia and local local self-government. On the other hand, what I can tell you is that this commission will make decisions in consensus. So, it won't be possible to say something against this particular case of the interests of Vojvodina, because your vote against disabling, if I may say so, as well as the voice of the city of Belgrade or of any ministry, consensus or must be unanimous. The Commission deals with the economic and financial aspects of any public-private partnership or concession, not politically. If it's all right with you, I think we've managed to avoid the territory of politics. This commission will be strictly comprised of professional people who understand the communal, infrastructure activities and others, in figures, as our people would say etc. So, the very fact that the commission will unanimously decide if you have one or two members, I think it doesn't matter if everyone has to agree, so I understand your argument. We accepted some of this, but then, in my opinion, I do not prejudge in any way to speak on your behalf, but I think that this is the principle of unanimous decision-making or consensus among all the members of that committee. On the other hand, this commission is designed to deal exclusively with project realization, economic justification, not politically at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63215	People's emissary Elvira Kovac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63216	Thank you for your response. I agree in part with you, but you must understand that the percentage AP is not represented enough here. What is my problem, I really thank you for the answer, for the sake of the public, some things are clearer to all of us, but I would ask the representatives of the Government or those who type out an explanation when we get answers from the Government, the MPs propose amendments, it goes to the Government, the government brings an opinion on these amendments, and then on one paper comes an opinion – the answer why our amendment, the amendment of the SVM MPs to this law, is because the promoter did not explain it or because it is not clear from the explanation. Please try harder in the future to answer why our amendments are being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63217	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 66. Proposal for a law on public-private partnership and concessions. To remind you, this member refers to the Commission for a Public-private Partnership. With my amendment, I asked to delete this commission, that it didn't exist simply. I ask the Minister present how many commissions we have, or how many commissions this government has. If we add advice to that, the agencies, no one can count it alive. It's true that every new law, every new commission, new agency, new advice, all depends on what kind of law it is. It is best that this government forms a commission for commissions, forms a council for the formation of councils, forms an agency for the formation of agencies, etc. Guys, who's gonna pay for all this? Do you have any insight into how Serbian citizens live? Citizens today barely make ends meet. More than half of Serbia, Malta, is on the verge of hunger, and we are just commissions, commissions, commissions, councils, agencies, etc. It seems you don't know that Serbia hasn't come out of the crisis we're in, and a new economic crisis is on the door. Simply, these things the government must have a lot more in mind. The explanation is interesting. You're referring to an argument under regular number 6. The amendment is said to be rejected because the reasons for the adoption of the amendment do not show. People, I have made it clear and loud in the light of my amendment that we do not need a commission, but the SRS is not an apriori against concession and public-private partnership. I said that the jobs that the commission should be doing should be doing professional services in the ministry. It's obvious that the amendment shows an explanation logically, rationally and meaningfully, but the government behaves the way they want it to be, but a little while longer, the elections are on the threshold, so we'll see what their fate will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63219	Thirty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63220	Mr Savić, the commission, at the beginning of this debate, I said that we did not want to form a new agency, a directorate, whatever for the public-private partnership concession, number 1 so as not to create a new administration, new premises, new salaries, etc. The commission we have provided for this law is an inter-resor body. What does that mean? That means what you said. The Commission, I say, is the representative of the ministry responsible for economic affairs, it is already an existing economy employee, the ministry's representative in charge of finance affairs, it is already someone who works. So we didn't create new jobs, new people. These are all people from the ministry's professional services, plus existing employees of the AP and the city of Belgrade. So these are people, who will meet once a month or five times a month or 20 times a month, if there is a need, and exchange papers with each other and make decisions. There are no new bodies here. It's called a commission, because when a group of people sit down to work, they need to give a formal opinion, they have to have some formal authority. In that sense, it is called a public-private partnership committee. No new employees, new salaries, new service cars, I don't know what. These are existing employees, already working in these ministries, institutions, systems, either in the AP or in the city of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63221	National MP Nikola Savic, then MP Zoran Krasic, is available for a total of two minutes and 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63222	I'll be brief, one sentence. You're talking, Minister, one story, and in article 66 of this law, this member I submitted the amendment to, he writes in the right position -- funds for the commission's work are being provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What you said turns out that no single dollar will be needed for that commission. I was just speaking loud and clear -- aman people, leave out of these commissions, agencies, councils and everything else, the citizens of Serbia can't handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63223	Minister Nebojsa Ciric, and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63224	How can I tell you, there must be some paper and expense, etc. Absolutely, but there are no new buildings, new rooms, new official cars. For the Commission to function, which I should tell you, to give a formal opinion, there must also be formal authority in terms of the commission and some of the funds that are most minimum possible for the Commission to function, yes, but there are no new jobs, new offices, etc. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63225	National MP Zoran Krasic, two minutes available.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63226	Well, I don't understand why you didn't find one expert in AP Kosovo and Metohija? A team before you swear on red lines or simply obstruct President Tadic. That man died a poor man for Kosovo and Metohija, and you won't get in. And there's an expert there, Mr. Kiriq. They're not just experts in Belgrade and Novi Sad, they're there. If you couldn't find them there, why didn't you put a representative of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija? You forgot about Kosovo and Metohija, now regions are more important to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63227	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63228	Amendment to Article 68 The SRS requests that Article 68 of this proposal be deleted, for three reasons, for reasons in Article 66. – funds for the work of the Commission are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The ministry provides space, again the space of the Republic of Serbia, the last position of the 65th member said -- a member of the commission receives compensation for working in a commission established by the government, etc., and we heard from Minister Ciric that all the representatives of the ministry, people already working in the ministries, will be paid for it. And because of the 68th article itself, where it says – the Commission's affairs, help prepare the proposal, inform and consult on issues, give an opinion on the space of approval of the proposal, etc., identify and facilitate the realization, produce methodological materials, in other words, and rot. All that this commission is doing can be done by a ministry that is also in charge of those people who are already working in the ministry and that special costs are not being generated in this country, especially by having several hundred agencies, several hundred commissions, several hundred other so-called. regulatory bodies, which, when all is collected, are only visible and reportedly receiving money. One more thing, one dilemma for the citizens of Serbia and you, Mr. Minister and Government, to clarify. The position of the SRS and the stance of 54% of Serbian citizens and the EU's stance is completely identical. We say – Serbia should not enter the EU, 54% of Serbian citizens say the same thing. And the EU says – Serbia should not enter the EU at all. I don't see what the dilemma is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63229	Anyone else want a word? National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 69th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 69 to delete, because here you say that the professional and administrative affairs carried out by the commission will be entrusted to the ministry. I don't understand. Why is this administrative work supposed to be done by the ministry instead of the board of directors? Mr. Kiric, I need to get you back seriously on one subject, because I'm probably among a few people here, coming from the economy, and I know what's been going on in the economy for the past ten years. Please, you're talking about the Kragujevac car factory, and don't talk about one big giant, which is the electronics industry in Nis. Now you're kniting braids out of cables how you're going to hire a thousand workers, and you fired five grand here. Not to mention all the industrial entities and facilities you've brought down in these ten years and now you're bringing people in, we want private partnerships and concessions to raise these industrial facilities. What are you thinking today and what are you talking about? This is an absurd topic. Instead of talking about people who don't have the bread to eat today, millions of people are starving in Serbia today, 40,000 are on the table. What are you talking about? This is absurd, because you are trying to explain to us by some of your transactions, that in concessions and that private capital will rush into Serbia today. Who's got to run it? You've robbed everything during the last ten years, cheated. There's nothing more to say. We're not kids in kindergarten here so you can fool us. Tell me, what about the Dragon Agricultural Machine Industry, one of the strongest in Europe? You destroyed it. What about the IMT that's supposed to produce tractors today, our tractors? We actually make Chinese tractors. Do you know what you're doing to us? Look at all the big combined and big giants, who didn't need concessions, where they worked over a million, two or three million people, today it doesn't do anything. Do you remember in 2008 that the mineral fertilizer factory in Šapco, I came to you with people, they were deceived, robbed workers? What are we talking about? We're saying that in 2008, 18,000 workers were giving unearned money just to vote for you in a pre-election campaign, or later. When it all went away, you shut it down for them. They're in the soup kitchen today. They're on the riverbeds. And now you're propagating, instead of your party president, who bought the apartment, and in what way did he buy it? Whose capital did he buy it with? Did he earn it at the gig or working somewhere at the factory? It's not. (President: People's Parliament, please on the subject of the agenda. Because he's an economic expert declared by America. Please don't tell us fairy tales. Stop what you're saying once and pull...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63231	People's MP, please don't speak beyond the agenda. You are required to listen to the chairman when he warns you that you have strayed from the agenda theme. Thank you. To Article 71. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone available at this time reporting for a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank the minister and the associates and all the participants in the session, of course. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. Minister Nebojsa Ciric and his associates are leaving the session hall, as we will move to the 15th point of the agenda, a search in particular, a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties. You have received amendments, which were submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dobrislav Prelic, Milorad Krstin, Vitomir Plužarević, Srboljub Zivanovic, Zoran Krasic, Zoran Mašić, Radiša Ilic, Dusan Marić and Otto Kišmarton. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I ask the Assembly to inform Minister Dusan Petrovic and his associates that they can enter the National Assembly Hall. To Article 1. The amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dobrisav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, the minister is in the O.R.? Are we going to work without him? I mean, really... (President: National MP, you insist on proving to me that you do not know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I listen very carefully to you whenever you insist on proving it to me. At this point, you are violating a provision concerning the reputation of the National Assembly and the obligation of the MPs to know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No provision, in no place in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, prescribes the presence of a minister. Thanks to most opposition political parties, opposition clubs, we have established a practice for government representatives to be present, with the co-operation of the ruling majority and opposition. And I ask you, not to disrespect the results we have achieved together, not to mock the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to use the time at your disposal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you insist that you continue to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will be forced and forced to impose criminal measures on you, first, second warnings, taking words and disfellowshippings from the session. Go ahead, move on. I had no intention of really getting to... (President: People's MP, when the chairman reminds you that you are seriously jeopardizing order in the session of the National Assembly, to mock the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When I remind you three today, during today's work day, to behave inadmissiblely, then you have a choice, or you will behave in accordance with the provisions, or you will force me, because it is obviously your intention or strategy for today's session, to give you the measures of caution. It's your choice. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petrovic, I have proposed that Article 1 of the amendment and supplement of the Law on the processing of plant varieties be deleted. I felt that the existing solution in the Law was more consistent, because by eradicating Articles 2 and 2 of the basic law, it would lose meaning. In an explanation, we have said here, in the reasons for the adoption of the law, that by adopting a law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders, real grounds have been created for the protection of intellectual property on plant varieties in the Republic of Serbia. I think our institutes, above all, have exceptional capacities and can work far more and better, better quality, to have conditions for the processing of new plant varieties. I think we are able to extend and make a far greater surplus in foreign trade, if a little more attention and understanding to our institutes, given that our institutes are highly appreciated, not only in Europe but throughout the world. We have over a thousand varieties in Serbia that have been recognized. I think we're somewhere on a figure of around 480 to 500 varieties that are recognised in both Europe and the world. There are some indications that they will invest in our institutes. But without the state's help, at this point, I'm sure they can't progress in any sense, especially as seed production in Serbia, from year to year, is falling more and more. Our institutes had one extraordinary collaboration with our agricultural combinations and these were envious surfaces and seed corn, and seed soybeans, and seed sunflowers. But they fall year after year, that's a fact. I think we have far more opportunities for other varieties. Before the world, I mean decoration plants and other varieties. But I'm not saying that without the help of the ministries, we certainly won't be able to improve the development of our seed houses. What's worrying is that foreign companies are present with us. It has a lot to do with our seed production. It is interesting that our seed houses have even better treatment abroad than here in Serbia. Since that is the case, and above all I think of Ukraine, where we export very much, to the Russian Federation, and even some African countries have shown great interest in our plant varieties. I think we should make the most of it. If I'm not mistaken, and you said in one of your speeches, your three directions to the development of agriculture, that in the third direction you mentioned both the development and improvement of our agricultural institutes. What is certainly worrying, is that this law is being passed in order to get as close to the EU as possible, but I am sure that the EU has a completely different interest in Serbia. Let's just say, we have a lot of where to invest, but I haven't personally seen any concrete moves, first of all, when it comes to agriculture. I can say, since it's kind of coming to an end of this government, that the elections are at hand, and we've had a chance to see that everything, but literally all the political parties promote agriculture as something that's about to be hit in the campaign for the next election. It's a legitimate right and it's a political right that can certainly be used. We've been here for three and a half years, and we've been saying that we need to improve and invest far more in our agriculture. But we haven't come to an understanding for a moment, unfortunately. We believe that our budget must be far more helpful to agriculture. Your former colleague couldn't, because he didn't have the strength to fight for such a thing in this coalition that was in power for the past three and a half years. For what reason, I don't know. I know for a fact that it's inadmissible for, say, subsidies to the Fiat to be 16 billion, and for agriculture, it's only 20 billion. You, when you took over the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade, were in one big problem. It's certainly a fact when it comes to subsidies. You know we've had strikes and raspberries, and people who have subsidies on a farmy surface, that is, per hectare of the country, and in the end you agreed to pay them up to 30 hectares, and this second part, up to 100 hectares, if I'm not mistaken, by January 2012. It's exactly the reason we talked about, that the agricultural budget should be between 5% and 6% and even 10% if we want to. But in order for this to be a little too ambitious, I think 5% is feasible and that the Republic of Serbia must, above all, find its own interest. There is much that the Ministry of Agriculture did not respect, and has a obligation under the law and regulations, when it comes to subsidies. The fact is, you're in big trouble. Eight billion and something has been paid off. I know you don't have any more money. And what was particularly humiliating, Mr. Minister, is that no single dinar was intended for farmers in the budget rebalancing. I think you'd make it easier for our individual farmers, people who spend their time day and night in the fields, in livestock, and that's just a special story. You know that, and even you said that livestock must be improved immediately... (President: National MP, plant variety. There's no cattle business. Please, on the subject of the agenda. ) So, Mr. Minister, when it comes to plant varieties, what we are particularly afraid of, which is the new plant varieties that have appeared on the Serbian market, and I can tell you that the fact that in our southern region, the Ministry of Agriculture currently has no control, and what I want to warn you about, is that there is a laboratory for the creation of new plant varieties, which there is absolutely no one under control, which can cause a lot of evil in our southern region, primarily for the citizens of Serbia, and not only for the citizens of Serbia, but for the whole region, and you know very well that our farmers are still in a situation not to use certified seeds, because it is far cheaper for them when they save seeds from last year and in this way only to burn themselves investments in agricultural production, but what's dangerous, it is that it's a laboratory that deals with genetically modified organisms and that they want to do so, I'm convinced that they're not all of the Balkans, and it's not all of the Balkans. That lab is under KFOR's direct patronage, and there's just no access there. We're afraid we'll get into a situation when it's too late. In the previous period, I warned of such a thing, and what I fear, Mr. Minister, is that it has been proven that we have huge areas in Serbia sown with such seeds. There was an opportunity where our ministry destroyed such parcels, but I don't understand why you've abolished the General Inspectorate. I think he had quite a legitimate function. I assume you'll say other inspectors will, but the Inspectorate General is the Inspectorate General. Not only when it comes to this, but any kind of manipulation and imports. You know we've also had cases where she was seized and food that doesn't fit, which was rotten from the imports. I don't think there was any excuse for that, and especially the fact that you shouldn't have ignored, which is where you found such plots, that you should have met these people anyway. There were various suggestions. Of course, the SRS is for the laws to be respected, but when that happened and those were huge parcels, you could have set up these very inspectors of yours, under the general inspectorate's patronage, where all these goods would have one adequate control, where not a single kilo of goods could go and abuse themselves, but turn itself into a biodiesel. People have accepted that the price is much lower, but it simply did not come to an understanding. What's problematic, when the harvest came and the very end of the harvest, then the customers showed up who, literally at the same price, were buying out genetically modified soybeans, but literally at the same price. Before that, people had offered five dinars cheaper, and even 10 just to keep the parcels from being tampered with. At that time, however, the General Inspectorate of Gendarmeria was so explicit, and even at night they tampered with certain parcels and allegedly all in order to comply with the law. First of all, the state could have had an interest in making biodiesel. That wouldn't be a small amount. This is how millions of euros went to grants. We're not so rich a country that we could treat each other that way. I think you've really made one huge mistake here. This is one of the laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, one of the conditions for Serbia to come to the World Trade Organisation. That's certainly a fact. We don't have to, Mr. Minister, pass this law to enter the World Trade Organization. They will accept Serbia without changes and additions to this law, especially because Serbia has the healthiest country in Europe, because we have such conditions and opportunities and such capacities to supply half of Europe, that all our products are paid far more, above all, in the Russian Federation. You heard, in African countries they're interested. We need to enable our people to be paid for, not to live on the edge of existence, without talking about what kind of Serbia has options when it comes to organic production. First of all, we need to take advantage of the fact that our villages are devastated, that once our mountains, pastures were full of sheep and goats and bulls, that today all the malts are halved, even three to five times less. It takes a little understanding, nothing more, a budget to double, to reduce just a little bit of the items in the budget. You have a chance now to work on the 2012 budget, try to be at least 5%, to help our people, and certainly that's when the surplus will be, not a billion and a few dollars, I'm convinced at least double, and it could be three times bigger. Now the campaign calls on everyone and says that the strategic goal is agriculture, that we are going in the wrong direction, and when it comes from a political party that had a Minister of Agriculture, if I am not mistaken in 2002, which, unfortunately, imported a genetically modified strain. Was that a two-wheel donation? I can see that, Mr. Minister, you're turning your head, but it's certainly true. You can imagine next year what was then in Serbia, and today we are in 2011, ten years after that. One, first of all, seriousness, one correct relationship with our agriculture, and I am convinced that every penny that is invested in our agricultural production will return three to five times to the Republic of Serbia. After all, let me just say one more thing. We have another political party on stage today, and this is the man who was in agriculture, if I am not mistaken for 60 years, Mr. Zaharija Trnavcevic – For richer Serbia. If I'm not mistaken, he was even directly involved in the Ministry of Agriculture and the President of the Commission at a time when Ivana Dulic-Markovic was a minister of agriculture, when they shared, at that happy time, a grant, which today you are not, as a minister, in the situation, unfortunately now establishing a new political party – For rich Serbia. I think it's just another lie for our citizens, that they should turn to themselves after all and that generally this government had no understanding, no sense of improving our agricultural production. I think in these 11 years, Mr. Minister, you've spent all your credits and will hardly convince our farmer to trust you in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63233	Thirteen minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. With two minutes at your disposal as an amendment, the remaining time has been used to remind you of the Rules of Procedure. The minister asked for a word, just sign in to the minister, please. Dusan Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63234	The principle thing at first, and that is the subject that governs the first member, you put the amendment on that article. I'm going to say one more time what I said here a while ago, talking about the debate in principle, I said. In fact, we passed this law a while ago and it turned out that there are certain things that would be good to fix, from our point of view. We had consultations within the International Organisation for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. All those who did this from a professional point of view have come to the conclusion that with such amendments and additions of the Law it is necessary to come out. It is an expert commission that has also worked on the preparation of the law, which includes representatives of all the prominent institutes in our country, about these institutes you also spoke about, the Institute of Novi Sad, the Institute of Zemun and other institutes. This text is proposed. This is one technical law, and there's almost no politics in it at all. I think it is important to point out once again, in the International Organisation for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, an international organisation in which we want to enter full capacity when we make these amendments and supplement the Law, so that we can be users of all the protection mechanisms provided by this Convention, in this structure, there are both Russia and Ukraine, of course, all the countries of the EU and the United States and other countries. So we are making amendments to this law to a mechanism that we want to adapt our legal system, so that we can join the society of these great families of countries, peoples, agriculture, and I think it is very important to clarify between ourselves and to clarify that to our citizens. We simply want to have all the rights for our producers of new plant varieties, to have protected intellectual property. On the other hand, Serbia will be a country where anyone who has such an intellectual property will be able to invest freely here, protect it and thus raise the capacity and potential of exploiting these great resources and potentials that we have and what you have also talked about. So that's one principle thing. Once again, where Russia and Ukraine are today, where I had the opportunity and the honor to be a few days ago, there's no reason for us to be out of that family of people. Well, when the Russians and the Ukrainians didn't find it appropriate that this was against their national interests, I'm sure it wasn't against our national interests either. Otherwise, Article 1 is precisely adapting this basic definition to what is written in the International Convention and therefore making changes to this article. For a short time, no one had an increase in budget rebalancing, except that there was an increase in expenditures on budget users, pensions, and increased some contributions for employees, so that agriculture couldn't have an increased budget and that's why it is who it is. The inspectorate-general was disbanded because the departments of the Ministry of Agriculture asked for this and for the protection of plants and the Department of Veterans, as well as for the agricultural inspection, too. There is no element that existed in the General Inspectorate, and that there is no today, as all these inspections existed before the General Inspectorate was created. I think we have one system that will certainly be more efficient than it is, but that it manages to carry out its tasks to a good extent and all its tasks, with regard to the protection of food safety, with regard to the provision of all the necessary elements and in the protection of plants and in the agricultural, general competence of agricultural inspection and in the veterinary service. We will also be destroying plantations that have been genetically modified materials sown in the future, because the state simply cannot do otherwise. No one was mistaken this year, not last year, not last year. It is known to anyone who deals with agriculture that it is not allowed to sow genetically modified material. Again, I want to send this message to our farmers – don't do this, because you will force competent inspections and police to apply the sanctions provided for in the law. That's what's going to happen in the future. I have a lot of understanding about the material loss of anyone in such a situation, but we need to have one order in place and everyone knows that he will get the proper sanctions unless he respects the law. So we're going to respect the law, not just here, you can see in the last few months that, Colloquially speaking, establishing order is one direction that we're going and that's why the state of the bread market is the way it is. I think we're going in the right direction when it comes to the sugar market, and that's how it's going to be with other basic life supplies in the shortest time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63235	The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. The time available for the parliamentary group is 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63236	Mr. Minister, let's start in a row. Now you've said that the General Inspectorate has been suspended, but that all the services remain. You didn't answer me, I said it was absolutely fine, that we warned you three and a half years ago, and your predecessor didn't take it seriously. Believe me, after a year he said I was right. He did not believe how much the genetically modified strain in Serbia was sown. But you didn't answer my question. So it's impossible to control absolutely all the plots. It's physically impossible, you'll agree. When the harvest comes to an end, a huge amount of countries, however, finds interest, buys at the same price, and is offered to buy under the control of the agriculture ministry, to especially create a ransom spot that will literally be controlled by the then general inspectorate, to make biodiesel. Everything is redeemed at the end of the harvest, literally everything, and you know it. How much longer? So we're doing it selectively, somewhere we will, somewhere we won't. It can't be like that. What's more than alarming, you say is not a condition for joining the World Trade Organisation. Here in the light of the law, the Republic of Serbia will meet the conditions to pass an instrument of accession and become a full member of the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. It is fine, but in accordance with the rules of procedure, and one of the conditions of the Republic of Serbia to join the World Trade Organisation will also be met. You know what the greatest condition is to join the World Trade Organization? What Mladjan Dinkic promised. Dinkic promised genetically modified organisms and the ministry Ivana Dulic-Markovic, when run by the agriculture ministry. You, Minister, know very well. So I urge, not only of you as Minister, but of the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to allow anything like this by chance. You know who's behind all this - Monsanto. What's even more dangerous, at the time of Hitler, those who financed it are the beginners of this program. I'm really afraid that we will come, God forbid, into a situation in ten years that will be written here in the Republic of Serbia, we will disappear, they say, there will be one sign on which to write -- there was once a country of Serbia that it sold and destroyed its own government. I don't think we should let anything like that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63237	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63238	I will answer in the order in which you asked the questions. I call upon you, like all MPs and citizens, that every knowledge you have of someone sowing surfaces with genetically modified material be delivered. Then I'm sure there won't be any more, if there is one, who will live to be reaped. So if you have any information, please let us know and we'll be right out. Absolutely a matter indiscriminately done, which is my knowledge, and I ask you if you have any other knowledge to tip off and we will immediately react and destroy everything, because it is our legal obligation. I did not say that this law is not important for joining the World Trade Organisation, and what it says in the explanation is true. About what politics is about genetically modified material, that's what I was saying. There is a law that is very clear and in a very decadent way settles this issue. As you can see, there is no proposal to amend and supplement the law. We push the way we think it's best. You don't have to run from any debate. Here, I'm very closely following the public debate on genetically modified organisms and genetically modified material. It's good that we all know everything, it's good that everyone is expressing their opinions. Of course, the ministry and the government are competent to determine the draft laws and you are competent to pass those laws. I'm going to say once again, as you can see, the bill that deals with this matter. Nothing can happen in secret and nothing can happen without being under the full lights of all the reflectors and under the watchful eye of the public. I think we have one position that's completely predictable and it's not like there's anything that can be done, as we say in our people, under the grain.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63239	The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63240	Mr. Minister, do you think it's normal for New Sad and Zemun Field institutes to produce parcels to plant genetically modified soybean, genetically modified corn and genetically modified potatoes? The Ministry of Agriculture must not allow such a thing. In Novi Sad, I'm responsibly telling you, you have four acres of parcels, in Zemun Field three acres, genetically modified corn and potatoes. So, not just soybeans, but these two plots. That's gotta be the way it is. In this way, we cannot protect two of our strongest seed houses in Serbia. If allowed, then you know what's coming. We warned. It is clear that in our butchers there are products that have a sign on them – the code alimetarium. You say, "It's not proven." Well, we're importing genetically modified soybeans. That's when I got an explanation from the Ministry of Agriculture that there was no evidence of any damage to the thermalally processed soybean. Why does the whole EU break down to buy out of us soy shotgun, and we import genetically modified? You know how it goes – then you get it into cattle production, that's what our cows on big farms use, which, unfortunately, are in a small number but are still surviving, the milkers buy it, and then our kids drink that milk. Better stop in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63241	Two minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Krstin, who has a word, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honorable Parisians of Serbia, and then I will explain, Mr. Minister, why I had to use that word -- the respected Serbia pair, this law was ahead of us in 2009. It was called the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. It consisted of 55 or 56 members. At that time, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a number of amendments, and with our participation in the debate we tried to tell you and we proved then, although you were not then the minister, that it would come safely to amend and supplement this law. At that time, we pointed out this to you in the principle debate, and then through the amendments, because this law, the first one, in 2009, was not the one as a supplement, prescribed from France. It is not a terrible thing at all that he is prescribed from one European country, EU member states, but, at that time, we recognise that in 2009, he is not good enough and that he will suffer some changes. Because to join a world trade organization, then the law must be perfect and always draws to those countries where it is of interest to bring changes and complement the existing law. I am now talking about the law that we passed in 2009 and which is attached to my amendment. Namely, by reading this law well, and as an authorised proposer in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I found that, in addition to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties, there are some illogicalities in Article 2. I will make sure that you explain yourself to me, or that we simply agree that this amendment of mine will be accepted. In Article 2, which is usually an old article 4, pages 2 and 3, "created, discovered or developed variety" is replaced by the words "creatured or discovered and developed variety". So we only have the "or" in front or behind the "discovered." But if I were to read this now, and I believe he did, unfortunately, you didn't consult, and I said it in the principle debate, let's say Professor Škorić, who created quite a variety of sunflowers, so when you see a tree with leaves somewhere in the field, with a crown. with the head, with the seeds and those beautiful petals of yellow leaves, one of the minds remembered to say much earlier – this is a plant from which food can be produced. So the first thing that should stand is "discovered." Then, when he discovered, he slowly created and developed that sort. Because sunflower is a noble cultural plant, entrenched. Now it's for human consumption, and its by-products for livestock production. I found there illogicalities, of course, consulting with our top experts. I think it's a professor. Dencic deserves attention, which is one of the creators of the wheat variety, so one Jockovic, who is one of the creators of the corn varieties, should not be ignored, Mr. Minister. So we can't say first, "made or discovered and developed a variety," but first discovered, created and then developed a variety. You know, varieties are constantly being processed, processed for the purpose of getting as much as possible as possible as a final product in order to satisfy this Serbian pair. That's why you had to pay attention, that's why. Your associates or associates who wrote this, that there was one mistake you had to correct. You still have time to correct this amendment. I can't believe you're really going to let it be like this, this important sentence you put on, and in fact, in the existing law, by 2009, you're just "creation or discovery", and it says here, "creature, discover or develop a variety". It's one order of words that's very important, but it's really important. And I see no reason, Mr. Minister, not to accept this amendment. The point is, when a single amendment is written, to consult top experts in Serbia. We were the world power, and we stay for the production of wheat, sunflower, corn, soybeans, sugar tails. It is that now, which is why this law is passed, we are threatened, because in order to be a member of UPOV, it is a abbreviations and the real name is the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, which is the first condition of the amendment and addition of the Law on Plant Varieties. The second condition is TO BE shortened, which means – World Trade Organisation. It is true that this law works and protects our institutes, our top experts, which is why we are still known in the world. You see, how many hundreds of thousands of acres of sunflowers are being sown in Ukraine, pretty ones, I mentioned her now, because she's telling us to tell that nearest one. There's no literally state in almost Europe that we don't have our sort represented there. But at least when we already have our varieties and they're recognised by the states, where you're in a hurry to go to that European Union, and they're members of the European Union, I don't see why they don't listen to our peers a little bit, if they've already accepted those varieties. I really don't see any reason why this Mr. Minister, the amendment won't be accepted. You have no reason to turn him down. You cannot paralyze the fact that the amendment was debated by top experts, as far as plant breeders' domains are concerned, and they accepted the opinion. There I mentioned our few top experts, I really don't want to advertise anyone here, I just mentioned it, but my consultations were with a number of people who don't even sit here in parliamentary benches, but they sit and do their job for the sake of the Serbian pair. But I say again, you first have something to find out, Mr. Secretary. When you discover it, then you create and develop it, you develop it to the peak, until it can't give birth so that one factory can withstand that kind of race, which I'm talking about right now. We've got a huge number of worldwide companies that have shared our advertising material, which can never be measured with our advertising material, which is like a little brochure, you know. Our institutes don't have that much money and they're not so powerful as to advertise, as they're advertised, you want me to mention them, here's the mention, but let's not take it as a commercial, we've got "Pionir", we know Miskovic was the main one who's there, there's KVS, LG, Sidenta, Koza and I'm not counting any further. I don't mind, but let's see if we are sufficiently represented by this law on our market as far as we are on their market. We're not safe. Do not let a French variety of wheat and Canadian enter the fields of Serbia, and if it is a Serb variety of wheat, you want me to order or not to order, advertise or not to advertise, be an enhancer of their varieties, as far as the quality of flour is concerned. Responsibilities, please check that with our top experts. Why is there so much of an Apache represented here because it has a huge commercial that is sown in the same amount as our NS 40S wheat variety. I'm talking about two identical varieties with the same amount of seed per catastran morning. When you look at all the parameters that are important in exports, our quality of wheat is much better than that imported, because our varieties are better quality and I repeat serve these other varieties of imports as an enhancer of flour. Ask the millers. They'll tell you this for sure. I can tell you, the amendments and additions to the laws that make up 22 or 24 members, I take a good look, I repeat this law on amendments and additions to the law are only because of that, which you said earlier, and I must admit, because we are not yet in this international Union for the protection of new plant varieties and we are not in the World Trade Organisation, because this law has to be supplemented. I repeat, it should be complemented, but see that we also take care of our varieties that will be found there, and you will see through the amendments that a little "UPOV" is more dragging there by those who force, in fact, who created this "UPOV" than by the account of Serbia or Serbia. Therefore, I am convinced, no matter what you are to say, not since yesterday, but from the almost minister of agriculture and trade, that you will have the understanding of this amendment. Don't let us get to the sort first, then discover it. He can't, he never did. While these minds of ours, unfortunately which we export from the domains of agriculture, and if you obey them, will be easier for both you and the Serb pair, and for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63243	Twelve minutes used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63244	A few things, I think it's important to answer, in June, all these amendments and additions to the law were presented at a big meeting here in Zemun at the Serbian Seed Association Institute. In this association in this association, the members are all our institutes. So, speaking now of the expert public opinion, this is now half of November, in June all the institutes through their representatives participated in a serious debate on this text that we are now holding here in parliament. Full consent has been reached on the adoption of such amendments and amendments to the laws. I have no doubt that you've had contact with the people of the profession at all and I wouldn't name anyone now, but we've had a public debate one institutional way by asking those who were invited to do so, we've asked them to give their representatives, and once again I'm going to say, they did it in June of the month. So none of the objections or objections that were, so after the discussion were implanted in this text, this is therefore the consequence of a very serious and fundamental debate being conducted. That's the first thing. The second thing about the metrics is what you were talking about. I wouldn't go into the interpretation here. You can logically set things one way or another. The definition is an identical definition that exists in the International Convention and is clearly two situations. In one situation, it's new that the varieties are brand-new, the other that they're discovered, but when they're created and discovered, they're further developed and that's somewhere. But even if we don't get into it, the essence of harmonising the law with the Convention is that here in Serbia, in Russia, in the UK, in every country that is a member and signatories of this Convention, everyone can have in the protection procedures or in the process of gaining the right to have an equal interpretation of all terms used in conventions. So these formulations are consistent with the formulas that exist in the International Convention and are therefore what they are. Such formulations were discussed at this forum that I was just talking about, and after all that they came to the government and then here to parliament. It's sort of a procedure somewhere, and it's basically the creation of this text about how I'd like to inform you and inform the entire public. That's why we think it's good that this text is adopted, that we enter a system in which, as I said, there are Western countries, but there are both Russia and Ukraine. I don't see that the Russians and the Ukrainians would enter a system like this if they thought it was against their national interests. I don't need us, of course, relying on what other countries are doing, we have to keep our wits and protect our interests from making regulations, but somehow it's the same indication of one. If countries with so many different interests, geostrategic, political and whatever are found in this Convention, then it is a very significant indicator that it is good to find our country in such a situation. Analyzing each of these members individually, I think we've come to a majority opinion, that it's a good thing that this law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63245	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63246	Mr. Minister, I understand you can't step away from the text, i.e. of amendments and additions to the Law on plant breeders. I absolutely understand, because this is what the International Union has been looking for to protect new plant varieties and the WTO, whose member we are not. This text must remain for a simple reason, because this UPOV or this International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties requires these conditions, requires such a text. We must remain in this text, as I understand you. I wanted to ask you, Mr. Minister, whether the house is built on a roof or starts on a foundation, which is why I am persistent in this, to explain that there are experts here in Serbia who can participate in the construction of some laws or amendments and additions of laws, regardless of what we are not in the EU, but they must recognize us as top experts in the creation and processing of varieties that I have listed, starting with corn, wheat, sunflower, soybeans, sugar tails, fruits, plums, etc. If this is a condition, if Serbia's accession to UPOV or WTO is a prerequisite, then I understand why you do not want to be in the amendment where I make a single order of nature. Mother Nature did so from what was once an ordinary plant that was not thought to be, I mean a sunflower, that a man can live from it and be one of the basic foods. By processing, because it is first discovered, created and enhanced. That's why I want to point out to you, although it's only been mentioned in the explanation in 1961. In the explanation that you provided us with, the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, etc., the Republic of Serbia ratified the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, adopted in Paris on 2 December 1961. Let me remind you something, what about the Convention that was concluded on 22 November 1928 in Paris? So she was still mentioned in 1928. There's something about what we've always been there for, and now we're not because that's what someone wants us to be yet or someone might be in a hurry to get there as soon as possible. I think you're aware you have to respect this. If the text is adopted as it is and presented to us, if it is not done, nothing, no UPOV, no membership in UPOV, no WTO, etc. But if you really think you're gonna stay here and stay the way it's been suggested, and this is the law prescribed in 2009 from France. We've also suggested that there are these gaps, that this law will come in a year or two days, I remember well, if we had a stenogram, you'd see that it says there's going to be a change, because always the one who proposes is looking for something new for himself. He who is a member must suffer something. This time, we suffer only because someone does not want from the EU or the International Union to protect new plant varieties, to adopt something from Serbia, which is an amendment to the parliamentary group or my amendment as regards the amendment and addition of the Law on plant breeders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63247	The time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group and two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group has been used. Before we move on to the revisions to Article 3, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the usual one-hour break will be determined when we have completed the search in particular of the draft law that is under way and then in the afternoon, after the one-hour break, we will open a search in detail on the 16th item of the agenda, or a bill which, after the end of the search, is in principle the only one that we can conduct the search in detail. In accordance with Article 87, if necessary, we'll be working after 6:00. We're only doing the 16th point after the break? I'm sorry, 16th and 17th points. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63248	Col. Vitomir Plužarevic has submitted an amendment to Article 3 and in the old law it is Article 7 paragraph 2 (2) and (3) – they change and they read. Mr. Minister, something's coming into my eyes here. Believe me, I would like to explain for good reason why and why this part has been expelled or some new law has happened there, the French wrote, so now it says maybe Germany or not Germany, maybe another EU member. I don't know why. That's why we suggested that Article 3 be deleted, because this existing one is clearer, and this is where we give what we have the worm doubts about this law, because this particular organization that we're trying to be, so that we can be even as far as we're concerned and that we're taking part in the world's race to sell various seeds as producers, I mean the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, and now that I'm reading, you're throwing out Article 2 and 3 of the Old. In Article 2, this is the case – by means of a contract between a capital-related company, where one of these companies is a majority owner or a majority company owned by a larger company. Look at the changes now. It is said that the contract on the alienation of the material of the variety between companies related to capital where one of these companies is the owner of another or of companies owned by a third company, provided that the alienation of the material of the variety is not for the purpose of the use of the variety. Believe me, says Vienna, barber. I'm sorry, but that's how I can interpret it. Believe me, you've already got something in this old Article 7 point 2 point 2) and 3 and you're adding something. See Article 3 in the old law – a contract on which, on behalf of the impregnators of reproductive or urban material is produced, reproduced, multiplied, conditioned or stored, under the condition that the breeder retains the exclusive right to obtained reproductive or urban material or their products and that that material or products are not alienated by being used for the production of another hybrid variety, but without alienation of hybrid material. It's in the old law. I don't see why this point 3 is bad. To shorten it with new amendments and additions to the law and to write only briefly and clearly. According to you, the contract based on which in the name of the processor is multiplied by the reproductive material of the variety and on which the property of the multiple material is returned to the processor. You're doing good to someone back there. You're doing good. You have to do it, I'm aware, to get into UPOV, I'm aware that it's a general fact, because I said, we have to make a race and show up at the world market. It's just, we're inequitable, for simple reasons, because you've made this particular article 3 so simple that it would be more accessible to someone, and in the old Law on plant breeders, it's much clearer and more comprehensive and there's no gap. There's no gap in this article 3. That's what it's all about. In this you can read a little bit between the lines. Again, I repeat, you didn't write it. One wrote, reliably, this one since 2009, the Law on Plant Varieties, the French, but I have not come to the knowledge of who implemented this supplement. Based on whose proposal? That is why I believe that the amendments proposed by the SRS parliamentary group and my esteemed colleagues should be accepted because I consider them acceptable. That's why we're asking to erase these new amendments and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63249	Five minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63250	By reading these views, everyone could see that it was a technical arrangement of relationships between the different participants in this procedure and in this procedure. Things aren't that complicated in life. Life has different manifestations and regulations regulate things to the extent that the legislator assesses that it is useful and necessary to be arranged. In 2009, we had a certain formulation. Turns out, this formulation doesn't correspond to the way this institute was arranged in the International Convention that we ratified. So we align our legal order, harmonize, conform to the general rules established by this international convention. I will say again, the same formula is in Russian legislation, Ukrainian legislation, and I am sure there is no danger to our national interest when we are and if this House adopts such a formulation. They're gonna do what I said 10 minutes ago. International conventions, when regulating a particular system, have one beneficial consequence among other things, which is that all those in that system are users of the possibility of interpreting the institutes that exist in those conventions in the same way. In international relations it is quite difficult because of language diversity, it is not easy to interpret, there would be no courts, there would be no law school, if it were simply to interpret the laws adopted by parliaments around the world and the sublaws. How much harder is it when it is necessary to interpret the rules that must be translated from one language into another language, and what is necessary to get the right meaning of all these terms? I have no intention of further discussing it, but I want to say that this harmonisation with the International Convention, in fact, leads to us in Serbia being able to have everyone who is interested, everyone who has licenses to this type of product, to be protected by knowing exactly what every term means, what every sentence means, legal speaking what it means, every institute has no greater benefits than predictability. The biggest problem in the legal order arises from the fact that you do not know what awaits you and that, in one way or another, the administration when it implements the process of recognising new, obtaining a license, courts when providing protection by lawsuits, when you are not sure what interpretation of certain technical institutes will be. Now, when this law is passed, we here in Serbia will have the opportunity to protect these rights in the same way as in the east of our continent, the west of our continent, and in every country that adopted this convention. Of course we are prepared to hear all the suggestions that we get from both the professional public and all the interested producers, those who are users of these rights, and at all the forums where that place is, to debate and discuss it and to participate in the promotion, but I think it is very important that we become part of this system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63251	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8(1) on behalf of the SRS, in this article to delete, and in fact, in Article 8(1), the words are – they express at least one feature that is due to the influence of the genotype or the combination of genotypes and is deleted. In the old law it is stated in Article 8. – the variety is considered different if it is clearly different from the expression of at least one feature resulting from the influence of the genotype or a combination of genotypes in relation to any other variety, whose existence is generally known at the time of application for the award of the plant breeder's right. I must, Mr. Minister, inform you that I held my session of the Committee on Science and Technological Development on 4 November at the Institute of V.A. and that I also held a session of the Committee at the Institute of Physics, where there was an expert explanation. I asked, in particular, at the Institute of Venture and Ratio of Novi Sad, which you said was a joint debate, where I asked in the debate for an explanation of this amendment, including the amendment of the other applicants, that in the discussion we had with the experts, about the work of this institute, or by seeing all the problems that occurred during a twenty-year period of time, unfortunately, in the last 10 years, when certain criminalized privatisations occurred, especially in those services, to call them, cooperatives, where there was an erosion, very much related to these professional debates, or this law on processed varieties, the creation of new varieties in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or in certain institutes. You know very well how many institutes in Serbia's territory have closed down. However, let me say, it seems to me that maybe that people's words -- who's closer to the top, maybe that's the one that's left, but maybe those who have also had in their collective expertise, have had certain scientific results, have failed to survive. Here, I will refer to a few of the problems that are important and related to this amendment of mine, because, unfortunately, in this amendment, it is said that, as I have read, it is expressed or it wants to be abolished a sort or gene or that is a genotype in a kind that is recognised. It's not clear to people, it's connecting this new law, so the old law and this new law, because it's actually a property that gives an assorted, that gene creates a new variety. That's a lot of professional Mr. Krstin, my party colleague explained, as if he listened and seemed to be there with us together. Unfortunately, many import varieties or many import seeds differ in quality compared to quality, which is what our institutes have created. We have, as Mr. Krstin said, "Apach wheat" which is 13.5% high-grade protein. When you look at our varieties, especially the "Partisanka" variety, which is 35% of its mass, which is best and best, as they say, you can see when you bake bread. That's when what Mr. Krstin said, how many foreign companies, I say importers, are using our quality wheat varieties to import them and to increase quality. The experts explained it and it's pretty good, and it's good, because I thought that the procedure of this law would be earlier and that I wouldn't have the opportunity to pass on what I heard at the Institute of vegetative science from very professional people, academics, who brought problems. The problems are, firstly, that these multinational companies, what you say, are our place with them, in fact, that these companies there don't accept or we don't have our own chair, so that our experts can fight for the good of this variety that we present. No, it's a story that tells that about us, or our being decided by someone else or someone else, but not us or our professional people. As for certain varieties that are represented today, what you said you were in Russia and Ukraine, this range was very well applied to the Russian market. It has appeared in these very weather conditions, and today we can say that during a period of time when government or a period of great droughts occur, there must be one certain resistance. Or we can't say that every plant is dry-proof, no, or just depending on its percentage, how much more it absorbs moisture, less or more. All plants, unfortunately, suffer this drought and that period, in the time period ahead, will become more and more affected by this country, and normally others in the environment. What's also said - I don't know why we're ashamed of being an organic land? You know what, in terms of agrotechnics and applied, let me say, certain varieties with which we want to make as much profit as possible, it's done by cheating nature. He wants to fool nature into raising the highest level of fertility, or the higher the level of gain. What is interesting and should be noted is that the Novi Sad Institute has created certain varieties and wheat and corn, especially corn, where two varieties are very interesting, which are "NS 640 ultra" and "NS 444" which are resistant to certain ultraherbicides with which it is actually applied, which is also the condition of the application of genetically modified plants, the use of total herbicides, so that in this process production can be less invested in the protection of plants from weeds and from other harmful plants. With this method, our experts have been able to select a significant variety that in our conditions can endure a great drought, precisely during the period needed for this vegetation part, especially pollination, when it is necessary to have a certain percentage of moisture. What surprised me was what I first heard from people who said they weren't interested in politics, that they were out of political reach, but they're just interested in the survival of those institutes. Because, as I said, the Institute of Physics, he uses a certain method of plasma to raise the degree of clearance in certain plants, which says how long it takes to be connected in circles, circulation, all of those institutes, which I said and what I was talking about, for a certain profit. What's the problem? The problem is that when we look at the Institute of Physics, 95% are on Serbia's budget, and only 5% come from their research methods. While, for example, when we're at the New Sad Institute of Vineyards, they're kind of trying to survive on their own on the market. Please, it was enough for me when I entered the warehouse, so the seeds that are properly placed at a certain temperature, which is not the case when they are distributed to the store, where they are normally sold there and how much time seed survives and I tell you, is one of the most modern warehouse areas in Europe, where seeds are kept, or certain gene banks, where the next and previous reproduction is needed, to produce seed goods. You know I asked a significant question at the end of the month, but you probably didn't understand me when I was talking about importing contaminated wheat. I didn't say it was contaminated because there was a disaster in Japan. No, it's because of the untimely or unprofessional use of mineral fertilisers. Because in phosphorus, or phosphorus powder, where phosphorus acid is produced, there is this radioactivity that affects harmfully if used in a diet in larger quantities. Because in the mineral fertilizer factory, they first examine these raw materials, that they are not contaminated. If they cross that particular dose, then normally it happens later. I asked that question. Is that true and how, in what way did imports of such contaminated wheat from Chechnya enter Serbia, the untimely, or unprofessional use of mineral fertilisers, which had an increased level of radioactivity in matter or in a substance called phosphorus? So that part that's very important, which I'm talking about, is those institutes behind which the state should stand. This co-habitation between the institutes, manufacturers and users must be linked, or must be monitored. When I tell the institute, then the institutes have delivered seed goods to the manufacturer. This seed product, and the goal of quality goods, is to produce as much as possible and to produce as much quality, and normally, to achieve as much profit as possible. Understand, if it is not in Serbia today, and here I am this morning when I left, my mailbox has been placed in this advertising section and related to "Pionir Seed". They're going to conquer this route to conquer our market. You'll fool our man easily because he's unprofessional, because he needs a certain professional education. You have now created and created a team of people who will visit Serbia. But I'm asking you, are these professional people going to come down to the area of Prokupja or, shall I say, south of Serbia? Unfortunately, we can't say that the south of Serbia is KiM, you see how they're trying to kidnap us and I'm afraid if we continue with this policy, that this will happen, that certain experts will enter the village when there are five or six nursing households, who barely survive biologically, let alone to deal with certain productions, and that's where we sent these professional people. What I've also been looking for, which is what I've received confidence, and I believe that through you I will succeed, that these professional people who will serve in education, in agricultural production, will have to schedule a particular seminar so that these professional people can pass on certain knowledge. Here, not only is knowledge related to the assorted seed, but a particular profession is passed on to both the protection and storage of the agricultural product. So that's what you're asked to do. Second, what are you looking for? It is required that you today, instead of 2.2, as planned for agriculture in the budget, that this must be a minimum of 5%. For what? Because today and usually you say that in this process, in that chain, the surplus is the only one that achieves agriculture today. We boast about 1.5 billion, how much was achieved in that surplus, and let's look at the countries of Denmark, the Netherlands, how much in their GDP they're accomplishing today. So that's what we're talking about because that chain can't be broken. What you were saying, when it was in principle, is that the ultimate result is not for us to export wheat and corn, but for us to export final goods, goods that we will in some way process and export to countries in an environment or to third countries. It's an enigma and it's the only goal. We can tell fairy tales here, stories, but unless there's a degree of subsidisation of agricultural producers, if they're not allowed, first by buying the machinery that's been destroyed today, where our machinery, you see, the dragon machine industry is destroyed, the IMT industry is so destroyed. As it is said at the Institute and true, in terms of agricultural production, you have launched a whole chain of other industries, chemical industry, food industry, etc. That's what this is all about. You say, I'll finish with that – here's the customs barrier will be removed when soya-sac is imported. Please, we're importing soy shotgun that might have been modified, maybe not, we don't know. I have to tell you something, when I asked the previous minister if there is a thermal treatment, because when I wear my soybeans to surrender, he questions her and I ask him – how did you find that soybean has been modified or not, because you know what, if soy to my parcel has been modified, the bee has pollinated, so that these genetic modifications have been passed on to a soy that has not been modified. That's the problem. It says -- when you put it into one of the test fluids, you see how much totalicide is on that seed, the herbicide that we've been destroying the weeds with. Now look, can the thermal treatment destroy those herbicides that are present on the seed? I can't. That's the difference. No one will import you from Brazil, from Argentina a soybean shotgun that hasn't been modified, don't lie, because in Europe it's allowed, although it's done in Greece, the use of genetically modified except genetically modified potatoes has been done everywhere. Today in Europe, it is imported to feed cattle. That's the difference. It's applied somewhere, it's not applied, somewhere it's stopped. I'm afraid whether it's going to come through a little door or not, but it's not a topic for today's discussion, nor do I want to talk about it. I believe we're all so smart that we need to protect our offspring, to protect our country. He who doesn't have his own offspring can't even fight over it. Once again, we can talk here for days about how agriculture was destroyed, how the chemical industry was destroyed, how the processing industry was destroyed in this country, how many farming cooperatives and combinations were destroyed. All this says that the period ahead of us is the one we have to invest a lot in, but unfortunately we don't know what and how, because the human potential of youth won't be caught up in this job. Those who got old, they were biologically late for all of it, and I don't think there will be any money. We can only tell fairy tales in the election campaign, that it'll all be good, but it won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63253	Eighteen minutes used by the MP's group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63254	Before I say anything about the substance of the amendment, I think it's very important that there be no doubt here, we can't get out of this room without hanging somewhere in the air wondering if it is or isn't soya shotgun that's being imported into Serbia genetically modified. It's not. In Serbia it is prohibited to import genetically modified materials, i.e. soya juice from modified soybean. Please once again, you and all the citizens who are watching us now, any knowledge you have about it, please deliver to the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of the Interior, everyone has a police station in their city, more or less, and in municipal buildings they do agricultural inspections. So, all you know is that the opposite of what I'm saying, please deliver it and we'll react immediately. It's a criminal act. It's not about whether it's about someone's goodwill and child care or adults or whatever. The law in Serbia prohibits the import of such material. Anyone who does that makes a crime. For different types of these works, different sanctions are provided. Whoever sows genetically modified material will be destroyed the plant surface on which he did it. It's a little contradictory when we say in this debate here – well, if they sow, let them stay. He won't stay, because it's the law. So, there's no debate about this thing. Around law enforcement, anyone who thinks the law needs to be changed can say that. Anyone who thinks there's no need to change the law, not that they can say that, that's what many people in this country say. The work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, my job is to see everything and hear everything. The constitution and the law require me to say what I think is a public interest. I'm doing it on both this question and everything that goes into the jurisdiction of the business I'm dealing with. And so is this question that you've had, which refers to contaminated seeds. There is nothing in keeping with our regulations that has entered the country, and that we have managed to establish our inspection controls. If you have any knowledge, please report it, so we can take steps and measures. I'm glad you had meetings at the Institute of Ratio and Vourage in Novi Sad. As far as I can see, no objection has been made to these formulations that we've given here. Now we're talking about diversity, as a specific institute in this law. The point is, as is the novelty that we discussed on the previous amendment, it is about harmonising the formulation with the International Convention. Once again I will say, it is very important that we have the possibility of fully uncontested interpretations and the determination of the true meaning, that we know what we are applying as a regulation, and when that regulation is applied by the administration, when the right is established and obtained and when the rules, laws and sublaws apply the courts in the lawsuits, when those who are interested are seeking protection of their rights. That is why we are now entering a system and removing all its inhospitableness, so that we have the same rights as in any country that is members of this international association, and these countries are also in the east and west. This Convention covers countries with such a diverse spectrum of international interests, geopolitical influences and whatever. This is the one thing that certainly showed in life that works well and this is one call for investment in this area. In the depths, it will be essential. Four to sixm euros should be invested that there is a high probability that after the investment, whoever does this will get one variety that can then be exploited economically and commercially. We send this law an invitation to invest in this area and this activity. You have opened a very important topic and a very important question. In the very near future, we will have, I believe, a good shift in some of our institutes. Now I don't want to talk about details, but I expect it by New Year's Eve. I've been working very hard with Minister Obradovic. And also, with these most successful institutes, we're having a serious debate about how exactly to increase their power and their ability, how to get to the most efficient and operational opportunities so that the vast potential they have, first of all, in the application science, in what is to apply fundamental knowledge, to raise it to a much higher level, so that it's precious to any help, and I'm very glad that you have communication with them and that you're in a good relationship. I think it will certainly contribute to us all together on this subject, which is essentially not political, but is life and is about the possibility of using the potential our country has, to do the best we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63255	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) If you wish to use the time of the parliamentary group, please sign in. Please, you have 24 minutes from the MP's group at your disposal. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63256	You keep mentioning that international union for the protection of new plant varieties, where institutes don't see any of our futures, as regards the recognition or alignment of these laws with their laws, because surely, you know, these multinational companies don't have, or in these multinational companies we don't have our own chair to defend, or to say, we're going to sort of seed wheat or sunflower to import into Germany. No, we can't. That's the problem, that they've nationalally protected those seeds. Only Serbia remained open, where many houses now want to destroy, because first, by destroying these large combinations, the production, the food industry, and we became addicted to others. As for the application of these fundamental sciences, relating to this correlation between their relationship, it will be very difficult to come about because of this big monopoly and the big commercial lobby that we are earning today, which unfortunately is being dragged into the system of government and, in fact, as they say, so Serbia, that is how our government works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63257	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Minister Dusan Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63258	You've opened a great topic. What's the point? Quite the opposite of what you're saying. When we enter full membership, every protection given in the procedure we conduct, the licence, simply saying, becomes valid in the territory of all the member states that are within this international association. This procedure and its essence is, when you put one sort, that meets all these conditions regarding novelty and uniformity and all other characteristics, that all members in an appropriate manner have the opportunity to make their observations whether it is really a new sort in terms of the Convention and of this law or not? Not only in Serbia, but in all countries. When you get a license, after that procedure, you are protected wherever you are able to exploit your investment economically because you have to spend a lot of money to get to a new variety. That's the point. I'm not afraid of competition, I think Serbia, and that's what we talked about here several times today, there are people with very serious knowledge. We have a problem because the state institutions are three, so they can't run in a commercial game so fast, so we're going to see what we're going to ask to change here without the fundamental influence of the state on these institutes. How can they be stronger and faster on the market? But in this fundamental part, fundamentally, about whether we have personal potential, whether there is a likelihood that serious people with serious knowledge will return to Serbia, who have left if we take steps. I believe so. Then we create a serious capacity based on becoming a member of an international network that protects intellectual property, that we have our capital intellectually and financially, which will be translated into new protected varieties, in fact as one of our country's great potentials. So if we don't believe in ourselves, we're not going into this convention. If we believe in ourselves, why don't we go into an even match with everyone, with full awareness of the power of multinational companies, their influence, the way things are? I think this 20 years also shows the serious vitality of the potential that we have in this area, and that potential can only open an even bigger and more significant space. Once again, to say, the adoption of this law, the entry of the country into a full-fledged network, provided by an international organisation, is an invitation to investors, an invitation to those who have money to invest in creating new varieties.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63259	Does anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 5, submitted by MP Zoran Krasic? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 6 of this bill, with a proposal to delete article 6. Article 6 in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing this law reads in Article 10(1): "its properties which have been subject to the examination of diversity" are replaced by the words "its relevant properties". The Serbian Radical Party believes that the proposed solution contained in the basic law in a better way allows the law to focus precisely on the characteristics of the plant species that have been subject to different testing. Instead, the promoter has found a solution that refers only to the relevant characteristics of plant species, which in some cases can give negative effects and leave aside some side effects of plant variety, but also those side characteristics of plant variety can sometimes be important for further development and use and plant variety. So, of course, and here is the reason for the amendment of this member of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, as you stated in the explanation that the last changes suffered in 1991 in Geneva, and that's what you cited as an explanation for the refusal of amendments. I'm just asking, then, why did the Serbian Government, or your predecessor, or promoter, not put these changes into the basic law that was passed two years ago, because how do we see and then this mentioned convention was in force? It's likely someone's been distracted by the original solution, and we know the reason for the amendment of this law. So maybe it wasn't just a disagreement over this convention. Of course, the explanation for these amendments to the law, and this plan is Serbia's entry into the World Trade Organisation. You mentioned recently are both Russia and Ukraine, but these are countries that are in a situation, perhaps, to dictate certain conditions, to protect their interests because, we must say, they are stronger and more powerful than Serbia. Of course, unlike, say, Russia, which may have more mechanisms to defend its interests than Serbia. Of course, both the UN and Russia and Serbia are members of the organisation, but we know with what power Russia operates with, with which Serbia. In the end, we expect the minister to remain consistent with his promises to fight all forces against the use of genetically modified organisms in Serbia, regardless of where these pressures came from, to change that, even if they came from Washington. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63261	One minute and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Minister Dusan Petrovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63262	Things always stand so that the law and the law of it most benefits those who are the weakest. For those who are great, they need neither law nor law, because they can carry out their will in life. It is good for us to be protected and it is always good to enter international conventions that regulate opportunities and create, once again, a predictable situation and not repeat it. About this last finding you said. So without any doubt, we will enforce a law that is crystal clear. I ask for support and assistance in law enforcement, point 1. Point two, I think it's extraordinary that we have a debate about what public interest is, what economic interests are, what health implications are. That's a good debate. I don't know which time I'm going to say that nothing can happen on this issue without going through all the instances under the greatest light that can be present, not just to come here to Parliament some regulation, so that we can debate it, but at every point of the procedure. This public debate is already taking place and it is good that everyone has the opportunity to reason and good, and it is not good at all to get bad emotions into any question. And even to discuss atomic power plants, it's not good to have a gallant discussion about it, but to make rational and good arguments, because only rational politics, cold-blooded decisions can do good to the people. I stand for such a debate about GMOs. The law will be respected within a millimeter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63263	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63264	Mr. Minister, based on all the answers you gave my colleagues, I still got the impression that we needed that law. As I said, not to repeat, two world organisations: the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties (UPOV) requires and requests, the World Trade Organisation (WTO) also requires and requires amendments and additions to the existing law that we passed in 2009. Some things are unsaid again, and I'm sure I'm a good part here right. See how much UPOV finds its interest precisely in these changes and additions of the law and provides itself there. You have added this in Article 7, in the old law Article 11 paragraph 2(3), and it says: "and it must be different from any name on the territory of other members of UPOV carried by another variety belonging to the same or close plant variety". That's understood. No one will take the name of one variety, so they can produce another in Romania. I'm convinced ours won't make that mistake again and the Americans, for example, call it Apache. We produced NS 40S. It is not appropriate, the breed of the Apache wheat and the one that bombed Serbia. They had so many names, but that's why we're so much wiser and we've put a variety of wheat called Russia. Conversely, since they put in a wheat variety "Apac", which originates from their institute, the creator of "Pionira", and we put in a variety produced by the New Sad Institute, which is called "Russia". It's normal for us to be stronger by quality, because the wheat variety is what it is. Don't let everything they put under our noses or put in front of us, that we have to do everything the way they think it's safest. I can't understand that a law written in 2009, prescribed by France, is now being supplemented by some law that is better or written by Germany. There's a difference. To take advantage of these two minutes I've given myself as an authorised representative in front of the SRS and to ask you, Mr. Minister. You know very well that our villages are still, you well know that nursing homes are in populated areas. Let me start by asking you and give me an answer. We have over 700,000 villages in Serbia, registered agricultural holdings in 2009 and 2010, and now we have slightly less than 300,000. Tell me, will they all receive subsidies of 14,000 dinar per hectare, as you promised us in this high house and the Agriculture Committee, as well as those that did not receive, and which will, as you said from 1 January 2012 to 31 January 2012, which are the owners of agricultural holdings from 30 hectares to 100 hectares? What about the subsidies to those who handed over the papers in September, the second annual round, because they probably didn't have the right to pay PIO? Be assured that's the case. Your answer should be – will we, and you will pass this law, the precondition for joining the WTO and UPOV, will then the state think about what my colleague Srboljub Zivanovic said, that we no longer have 2.5% in the budget for agriculture or that it is 5%, as far as we are suggesting 10 years ago, and no one will understand us in that part? What's quite important is whether one day it's going to come back that up to a year ago when it comes to buying, I mean tractors and agricultural machinery, 40 percent of the total value of that tractor came back. I think it is very important, and it is important that these subsidies were received under 40 years of age, dealing exclusively with agriculture, as well as holders of registered agricultural holdings, as well as all those subsidies that were set for livestock, vineyarding, fruit growing, etc. This is one of my answers, so that the Serb pair will hear what awaits him next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63265	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63266	First thing on the agenda. What you just said about the important things that apply to the name, to the Institute of Names in this law, is exactly the thing that in a very clear way shows what constitutes the fundamental idea of international and legal protection of intellectual property rights in this area. That is why it is also forbidden to give names that are similar to the names of already existing varieties, to avoid the full possibility of abuse, because the name is an important thing in consumer identification, which are farmers, when choosing which seeds they will use and what seeds they will buy. So all those who are here with us will have that possibility of protection in all the territories of the Member States and vice versa. As far as economic policy is concerned, which is absolutely one natural thing for us when we are having a debate on agricultural law, what I said will be done. Now I'm going to remind myself of what I said: first, everyone who applied for subsidies will get that money; secondly, when we had a very heated debate and debate here, I said then that this year's budget has 8.6 billion money for this purpose. To all who first applied and met the conditions, the money was paid. Now we pay as much money as there is. By January 31st, everyone will receive money until the last dinar, as such an agreement has been reached. So, the 2012 budget debate is just starting to resolve this issue, and certainly, I'll tell you in advance because I think that's what I said and when that decision is made, that money will formally be in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget because it can't be elsewhere, but we can't count that money as regular spending, because it's money for commitments from 2011. About all the other things, and I think it's normal, natural, fair, I want to lead the discussion with other members of the government when we're having a budget debate, and then we're going to come here and we're going to explain everything we find as a solution, I've already said some things, and I'm going to stand behind it -- the incentive in milk production is not going to be less than in 2011 and five dinars of milk premium and 25 thousand dinar incentives for anyone who has at least four wrapped throats and more. There will be some news, but I'll be happy to share it with you once we've finished the discussion among the members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63267	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63268	Ladies and gentlemen, the basic law adopted by this Assembly two years ago states: "The competent authorities and international organisations for the protection of new plant varieties can make their remarks on the registered name of the new plant variety to submit to the competent ministry of the Republic of Serbia". The government is now proposing that this provision: "registered" be deleted. What does that mean? This means that the competent authorities of these international organisations can deliver their possible objections to the ministry on all plant varieties, whether they are plant varieties whose name is registered or not registered. We are against this amendment, and that is why we have suggested that this Article 8 be completely deleted. The government rejected the amendment with the explanation: "Article 8. The draft law corrects the error made in Article 12(3). The law on the protection of the rights of plant breeders which is prescribed that the competent authorities and members of UPOV may make their objections to the registered name of the variety to deliver to the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management." The SRS believes that the old solution was not a mistake but a better solution than the one proposed by the government. We simply believe that our ministry should deal only with the names of those varieties that are registered. If a particular variety is not registered, if it has no name, it practically does not exist. Why would our ministry be burdened and engaged in something that doesn't exist formally? Secondly, we believe that this international organisation should not be given the right to, peoplely speaking, interfere with names of varieties that are not recognised and do not have their own name. Here is the question of what stage will this international organisation be able to engage in? Then perhaps the best solution for the Republic of Serbia to launch an initiative to amend this Convention, in the sense that each member is obliged to submit an advance name proposal to this international organisation when proposing and registering new varieties, so that it is based on this statement. What I wanted to point out is that this law has 24 members. The proposal of as many as 11 members of the government has explained and justified compliance with this international convention. What's unusual about that? It is unusual because this international convention on the protection of new plant varieties was adopted in 1961. Meanwhile, it was changed three times – 1968, 1972, and 1991, so 19 years ago, and we passed the basic law two years ago. My question is - how could it happen that when writing the basic text of the law two years ago, such mistakes were made, that solutions that are so contrary to this international convention were offered?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63269	A minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63270	As far as regulations are concerned, it is precisely the fact that, through competent organisations, a competent institution established and established by this Convention in the registration procedure, objections may be made. It's essential. Because once we have completed the registration procedure and we have a new variety according to regulations, if they are adopted today in the Assembly, which are in accordance with the Convention, then we will have the possibility of protection practically throughout the territory covered by this Convention. In order for that to be possible, all interested must be able to make certain observations in advance. Whether they will be adopted or not, that's another question. After all, a registrant can make a mistake. In that case, there is judicial protection. There are several points here where it is possible to achieve protection. I'm going back to the point again. This is an invitation to invest money in this, to invest serious capital in agriculture, in the basic part of agriculture, in improving seed and fruit material. This law will create legal certainty so that people, companies, banks, giving credit to those who are capable of doing so, can safely invest their money. Safe because it will not only be legal security in Serbia's territory but will have security in the territory of the entire area. It's not good to make mistakes, but the biggest mistake is not to correct mistakes. So if he can work now and sometimes he's not wrong. I remember a great man who answered a lot of questions about why something didn't work out, said, "You know what, I throw threes and I throw 70 out of 100, don't ask me why I didn't throw 71, but if there's someone to throw 70, as much as I do, so he can come in here and throw it for me." So, I think it's good to see that certain things aren't good, so we just passed the law nine months ago, or two months ago, and not three years ago, we need to correct them. I think we've given a large number of reasons why this concept is good and I once again appeal to the Assembly to adopt it, with full respect for all the objections you've put in place and I think we've had a valuable debate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63271	National MP Dusan Maric has a word. Time is available for 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63272	Well, with all the respect to what you've said, the question remains again, the dilemma I've raised, which is what is the stage in which this international organization is involved? You say, on a proposal for a name. If someone suggests that a particular variety is registered under a particular name, then I think it would be good if there was a solution in the law where it would be said – this international organisation for the protection of new plant varieties can make its remarks on the proposed or registered name of the plant. I think it would be more correct, in order for it to be more precise, a better legal solution, or there would be no dilemma that when someone proposes a new name, when they suggest registering a new variety, then this international organisation can react. I think so. Unnecessarily to react before that, to keep some legal space for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63273	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that this article 14 be deleted. However, I have been given the answer in my explanation that the reasons for the law being passed is that Article 14 amends Article 30(1) of this Law, which explains in a more comprehensive way the application of the right to use a protected variety. A little while, Mr. Minister, you said our institutes couldn't get in the race. I'd say we don't have shoes to run with big companies, and in due course we won't have any, regardless of the opportunities our institutes have. Our country was faced with a great erosion of genetic material. But we used to give our genotypes and their numbers were measured by hundreds and thousands, and we exchanged them with the whole world, and today when we need them, we have to sign the paperwork that we commit not to use for commercial purposes. Well, that's why these big companies that are already here on our market have opened their representations, they even have general distributors. Let's say, when it comes to seed corn, next to pawns, next to other varieties -- "Kermes", KVS hybrids, we got one of our new houses -- AS hybrids, next to our already known houses. There's also a hybrid behind which is a large company called Inosanto and the general distributor here is MK Komertz. I think you're familiar with one of those situations. This variety of corn is sown in the United States and Canada, believe it or not, at 8 to 12 centimeters. It's spraying out of the air. The fact that it's all done that way, you can imagine the kind of genotype in it. I don't think that way our institutes can compete with these big companies. We had a chance to see now, buying corn that the price from 22 dinars fell to 14 dinars, so it rose to 14.5 dinars, 15 dinars, and now it's somewhere around 16.5 dinars. We've passed the Public Storage Act here, but we're not enough warehouses. Many of our companies were forced to think because of the monopoly in buying corn, excessive prices, drying, etc., to surrender, and some even came into a situation that they began to think about making corn in the fields and covering it, because there were no storage facilities. Probably the export price wasn't right at this point, we don't have enough storage facilities. In addition to all these problems, I think you should also consider when the 2012 budget is adopted, because last year they were subsidies for open warehouses, for the construction of droughts, etc. Minister, budget levels remain the same, and this year we don't have the means to respect everything. Something strange happened. Last year, there were 8.6 billion subsidies for public warehouses, subsidies for the purchase of machinery. This year we only have 30 acres to pay, everything else had to be transferred for next year. The third quarter of the milk premium is not paid. The heifer premium hasn't been paid. I think you'll find yourself in one serious problem if, you said, you're going to go out here and we're going to debate together, if the budget doesn't come up to five percent for agriculture and you're going to be in one huge problem, although given your profession and everything, all of your organisational abilities, I doubt you'll accept being a minister. If you're in a position to form another government or something, but given what's going on in this coalition today after three and a half years and what kind of comments we hear from the political parties, no one's answering anyone, nothing was good. If three and a half years are left, I really don't get it. Generally, it is true and it is also public appearances. No one's answering anyone. SPO and SPS, the wolf is moving again, he's changed total politics. I don't think it really makes any sense, but we hope that the Ministry will make an effort to prepare for next year a correct budget and that our agriculture is moving forward because it really deserves it and it's the only economic branch where we're making a surplus and where it certainly has an economic justification.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63275	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63276	Everything that's due this year will be settled. What's said will be done. You know that last year's heifer incentive was less than it was this year. One half was paid. This year everything will be paid off. When you ask where the money is, here's one of the topics that will be fully settled, that 25,000. The inspectors are now in the field, determining everything that's going on. Of course the throats are coming and everything has to be verified. The full amount of 25,000 dinars will be paid and people in the ministry will do their best to make these procedures that they can sometimes be tiring, but the state has to take all those steps that the regulations have established to speed it up and pay off. All milk premiums will be paid. These are bigger expenses than the previous years, so there's an answer to your question. I'll say again about next year's budget. We're going to have a serious debate, two things that aren't about incentives and premiums, and they're also about capital. The first is irrigation. All institutes in Serbia that are capable of doing so will be engaged. Some have already been hired to do irrigation projects. We will do everything in our power to complete all necessary procedures by this month and by the beginning of the construction season. We can go from the present state of things, where we have 100,000 acres of land under irrigation, in the next four years to a million and 100,000 acres of land. We've defined for next year the projects that are now somewhere at 70,000 hectares. We need to see everything and how quickly it can be completed through projects so that procedures can be conducted in the selection of performers, that we get the best and best prices possible and that we turn right away as soon as those weather opportunities start of the year allow it to be done. We're going to go out very quickly with estimates of how in the last 10 years alone we haven't made any revenue, which would be legal, how much our lost profit is because we haven't taken advantage of the country's potential in irrigation. Given climate change and one trend and entering this whole part of the world into a crawling drought, I think that's essentially the most important thing. In addition, over the next year, I think we will wait until the end of next year to finish it, we will create a network of hydrometeorological cells throughout Serbia that will actually be information centres where we will be able to determine the existence of various types of pests within a very short period, which will greatly reduce the cost because the protection will be very precise. As a result, these advisers have a very serious job to inform them of all this as soon as possible. Economically very important thing, but also in the quality of production because we will have a better production due to less use of means of protection. So it's just two segments that are going to be the subject of a budgetary debate because it all takes money. I share with you your fundamental claim that every penny invested in agriculture can, not fivefold, tenfold return, but that dinar must be spent in the most precise way possible and we need to establish control of the spending of that money. What happens to every dinar that goes into agriculture? It's our common interest. That goes beyond our usual parliamentary debate. It's a question not only of the country's economic capacity, it's a security issue. The stronger we become, the more we will have the capacity to implement a policy that fully enables the protection of all our interests. We have one huge potential, and I think we're one step ahead. The large instrument for this will be the 2012 budget and will not only be aware of whether it is 140 euros per hectare or not and whether it is per quantity or per surface. That's what people are interested in because it's the living money they're getting. That proposal will be complex. It'll give some things just as an effect in 2012. Many things represent an expansion of the capacity the country has to take advantage of its incredible potential and now that I'm not burdening myself further, which is why it's important that we increase the depth of hummus on land and that we can't do it without the development of livestock farming and that we have big jobs to finish. No matter who the minister is, and no matter how things develop, we have a clear direction that if we carry him out in the next 10 years, we will become one agricultural force and an economically significantly more powerful country than we are today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63277	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63278	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 39th position of the word - on the field of observation and in the laboratory, to be deleted. This is, in fact, related to the old law, where the ministry may, in the field of examination of the variety referred to in Article 1 of this Article, entrust the right to the person who, in terms of personnel, equipment and devices, fulfils the conditions for carrying out those examinations or to accept the results of already completed examinations of the variety, in the field of view, laboratories or other examinations. Please, here in this article 19. you are erasing - in the field of view, laboratories, so I ask if these tests can be done somewhere in a potty or to be done, as I said at the Institute of Physics, where modern methods can be used, using plasma, to determine the degree of germination of a plant. But before I begin to professionally explain this amendment to you, so I don't forget, this morning when I leave, believe me, the citizens are following this, and they're asking me, will this fourth remaining tranche of rural pensioners, when will it be worth it, or when will the martyrs come to order? You well know that this peasant bread is not with seven, but with 77 crusts, that, if I may say so, it's the bloodiest profit. Because you talk and listen well, and why I say it – it's nice to say it all, but is it possible to carry it all out today, firstly, biologically, because today, we have no descendants who would continue the cycle of production because of the incompetence of many people and have gone to cities. But to get back to what's most important and important, this law. Please, how long it takes, just setting up scientists at the institute of this amendment, to tell me -- it takes a long period of time to monitor the genetic mutation. So you can't go through this modern plasma method, so that you can now determine the degree of fissure and call to determine how much it is or how the genes are left based on mom and dad, which were conducted during the study. What's also very important, I want to tell you, is that not only do these subsidies that you mention 14,000 per hectare, why don't we take another method? Let's make subsidies according to the quantity produced, let's see. That's where we'll all use agrotechnics, but to make these subsidies bigger, there'll be more states, and there'll be more of those who produce them. I'll tell you, parity price related to milk production. In 2000, I was one of the largest milk producers. At that time, the price of milk was 18 dinars, and the price of oil was 23. Today the price of milk is moving from 25 to 32, and you well know the price of oil and all other inputs in the given production. Do you need to increase this production? Today, 550,000 hectares should be sown or already sown by this reduced method or by any possible desire of peasants to sow wheat. Unfortunately, the seed goods were not used, they were mostly from the barn. Will a million and 500 thousand acres under the corn be sown? I doubt it, because 250,000 acres of land is blocked. They're the ones who put it out there that say it -- we don't have a receipt to invest, because in the end, it's not. Look at what my colleague Kristin was saying about the sunflower. It's, we call it, an industrial plant, but it's not. Over a million and 200 thousand are sown, and we have this asortic that will sow. But, you see, here we have the largest, we call them, the varieties, the most significant results achieved right in seed goods, as far as sunflowers are concerned. Let me tell you one more time, watch out. We're getting there, what do I tell you by the amount of subsidy? We, with the same seed in Russia or anywhere in Hungary, achieve between five and eight tons using our seed goods, and we can't go from three to five. What's he saying? He says we haven't applied all that agrotechnic. That's the problem that's bothering us. Secondly, there is another problem which, unfortunately, I did not set up Mr. Ciric, and he left, because my moment was short, so why don't we use 10,000 euros, as used now, to raise that level of production in the Kragujevac flag, at reception, or the worker that he gets to stay in his workplace? Why don't you give 10,000 euros to a small agricultural producer to make a deal with him and continue the production process? Because, biologically, if you don't connect that production, the livestock production to the village, they won't, they'll all leave. There's nothing to talk about today. Biologically, everyone leaves the villages, heading towards the urban center. So that's the one problem. There's got to be these subsidies, if we're thinking about all of this together today, what we've been saying to some kind of reproductive system is what needs to be done on agriculture, only the only help is the state. I'm telling you, because the combined, processing companies have been destroyed. Just look at the chipper that was in Chačka. She, unfortunately, is closed. What's closed? For criminal privatisation, by buying everything he bought. Look at the cooperatives, look at the companies where today, when you enter these companies, you see a tree growing where people used to clean their shoes, shoes, to get in, where a little more land was held, so the seed plant fell there and there was growth, so plants, fruit or anything else, it devastated Serbia today. We can talk, we can lie to ourselves, we can mention that we will get grants from the EU, we can say that we will have access to pre-accession funds. There's nothing to do with that job. We have to trust ourselves and our beaks. In Japan, they produced food in the leus, as we produce onion today, and that's where they produced it. And if there were no peasants, the big economic crisis that took place in 1993, 1994, could be difficult to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63279	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63280	I'll talk about the amendment first. This is about the cost of questioning. In addition to the examination in the laboratory field, all questions related to the name are identified, inability is determined, etc., so that there are other costs, other than what is in the field and in the laboratory. Then it must be foreseen, so that this whole procedure can be completed. The EU is a matter that is very important for agriculture. Just one example, I think it's very picturesque for us. Lithuania is a country that has 3.5 million inhabitants. They have between 500 and 600,000 families involved in agriculture. Their budget, or to be said, their own, original is, more or less like ours -- 200 and a little bit more millions. What they get from the EU as a budget for agriculture is a billion euros. So 3.5 million people, 500 000 families involved, have a billion and 200m euros in the 2011 budget. It's the EU for peasants. Serbia would look dramatically different if it had a billion and 200,000 euros budget for agriculture for four years. Much different than it is now. I respect all our differences about where the country should go. For this reason, I believe that we should join the EU, because it is good for 800,000 agriculture families. I think we'll have more talk about the subsidies. I like to hear all the suggestions and ideas, because there's a lot of resistance for subsidies to be in quantity, not just per hectare, and that's why it's good to have a debate about it. Basically, of course, it's bad and we don't exactly have 250 thousand acres in the parlogus, so by statistics, we have 175 grand. But basically, we would be a great force, which is in agriculture and in the region completely unattainable for everyone else. This will be the goal of agrarian policy in 2012, to raise the average contribution. I'll make suggestions on how to do that. First, I'm going to make proposals to the members of the government, so we can get the budget. When we look for him, then I'll ask for support here from you when we show up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63281	Thank you. To Article 20. The amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 22. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Christin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63282	It is common knowledge that we have tried to convince the Minister to accept these amendments that would absolutely improve these amendments and supplement of the Law on Plant Varieties. Mr. Minister, I must also confirm the fact that you and most of us are going to vote this bill. There are irregularities in some we have had in considering these amendments. According to the Rules of Procedure, it has always been a rule for the government to support and give its opinion, as it is, but the Committee on Agriculture seems to not exist. I don't know what it is. The president of the Committee is from a non-existent traitorous party and I can see that no one is sitting with the SNS, or what they are called, forward Serbia. Go, Tomo Zukorlic and WikiLeaks. However, we did not maintain it, so that we could support the board as the SRS of this amendment and get some support, where you would, above all, be there. Since I have a little time left, I'll just remind you, Mr. Minister, try not to experience our combineds entering our fields of intervention next year, and I mean wheat, without knowing the price yet. I speak for all those who sit here and deal with agriculture, as I am, such as Mr. Prelic, Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, etc. Try to eliminate these financial powers and tycoons once. Last year, a ton of sunflowers cost 400 euros, and this year 315 euros to start with the price of oil at the beginning of the harvest with 153 dinars of oil "Diamant" and "Iskon" 147 dinars. Then there's an explanation - we're making social policy, someone from the government, by normally giving the price of 315 euros for a ton of sunflowers. Not a farmer, which is why I mentioned it in my presentation, when I said the Serbian pair, don't let the 2011 cousin start us off with a price of 17 dinars and ends with 14.5, i.e. Now something's getting bigger. It's always the story of these tycoons and these financial powers -- you know, it's low in Danube, we can't export. Don't let that happen. A Serb patron, believe me, has endured sanctions and endured anything that could endure, but cannot withstand tycoons. You know, these are financial powers that dictate. Last year, the price of wheat was paid, remember, 16 dinars and 80 pairs, and it ended with 32 dinars. Who got that in their pockets? The one who worked, the one who sweated, who paid for the seeds, the fertilizer, the chemistry, the combination, the fuel, or the one who just stored it? There, Mr. Minister, you must make and the government must cut, otherwise, while there are financial powers and while the tycoon, which destroys the fallen Serbian agriculture, is not going to be good for the Serb steam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63283	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63284	I stayed in debt to Mr. Zivanovic just a little while ago. We'll see everything in the budget for next year. I agree with you, it's a big social issue for citizens who have very low incomes and are in poor social conditions. Peasants' pensions are one big thing and a big subject, and we're going to have it as one important and very important issue when we talk about the budget. Cereals are stockpiles and not all of them are just abuses of a dominant position on the market. I think this year, you know that we've intervened with wheat, that we've bought 100,000 tons of wheat per 20 dinars, the wheat has only now left over 18 dinars on the stock market in the last few days. It wasn't a rush to sell wheat for 20 dinars. We've been buying more than a month, because obviously, now in terms of supply and demand, we only buy wheat from registered agricultural holdings, we didn't buy from large companies. So people estimated they had a place where they stored the wheat and they said -- I'm not selling for 20 dinars because I expect it to be more expensive than 20 dinars over the year. It's a business decision by agricultural producers. We bought 100,000 tons by taking a few weeks to buy 20 dinars. On the other hand, both you and the citizens, let me inform you, as far as bread supply is concerned, be calm. We have a stable regulated market, and when it comes to mills and bakers and what we've done with the price limit on bread, it can't be more expensive than 44 dinars, I mean the bread from the "Type 500" flour. That's how it stays, the market works between 31 and 44 dinars and that's great. Repa, I don't think there are any countries in Europe where tails would have a higher price than in Serbia this year, 45-50. Let me tell you, someone sold 60 tails. It's contracts. We exported to Croatia, right, because Croatian sugars paid and made contracts here. As you can see, we have no problem in the production of sugar. If we had banned exports to Croatia, there would have been a lower price here and the peasants would have gotten less money. That's why exports to Croatia went. Because we have to play a free game while it's fair and those who are strongest begin to abuse and threaten those who are weaker. That's why she went to Croatia. They know how much farmers have earned producing sugar tail this year. A thousand euros was the average profit per hectare. That's it. It is good that we released exports to Croatia, because this enabled the competition and the peasants could make more money, and it will also instruct domestic sugar producers to now start thinking about how they will negotiate production for 2012 and at what price and what surface. I think there should be 80,000 hectares under the sugar tail next year in Serbia, and we can have huge sugar production and we will make proposals to support it. Everybody makes money and sugar gets even cheaper than it is now. Now sugar is cheaper than it was three months ago. Sunflower and soybean are stock. Today corn is more expensive in Serbia than on markets. Soy and sunflower, trade is done. Unfortunately, the Danube was unmanned and couldn't go, because trucks can't export wheat, it's too expensive, as well as corn, but only with barges. But it's all within what fair trade opens as a possibility. I'll be back for the wheat. The manufacturer's decision is not to sell wheat for 20 dinars, which means people have a place to store it, about what you gave me as a note store. And there should be more public warehouses and we'll work on it next year. Here are the conditions which are much better than they were in previous years. Next year, these conditions need to be even better. We'll have different measures that apply to the stock reserves. The stock reserves will be much more powerful than they are now. I believe that we will succeed in 2012 to create a system that will open up for everyone in the chain of production, peasants, processors and merchants, the possibility that everyone has a fair relationship and a fair profit. We will, wherever we can, prevent illegal competition and monopolies from taking advantage of the position on the market. Finally, it is important that we as consumers all have a well-provided market together, a higher quantity of goods at lower prices, and I think we have already made one good direction and a good trend in the new year. My belief is that we'll have more good news as shoppers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63285	Thank you. Mr. Zivanovic, you have a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63286	All I can say is, the stock reserves can't be as a guardian of social events today in Serbia, but actually be one regulatory body that regulates currents. You say it at a fair game, so whether it was a fair game when the price of wheat was 30 dinars and when you banned the export, that is, there was a fear that after that we wouldn't import our wheat that we exported. So, it's not all a fair game after all, when you feel a peasant should make a living, you turn it around and don't let him take his goods off the border. This, of course, led to a drop in prices and social cases today in Serbia. It's what a peasant did today, and he does it all the time. What we're talking about, we need to put it into action. What you say – the price of sugar beet or sugar price, see the prices that occurred in October of the month, how much there was an increase in certain provisions of life in Serbia, because there was an increase in inflation. That's the problem that's following us. We cannot keep talking – we will until there are guaranteed prices, but through Serbia's stock reserves, or agriculture must have its constant decline.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63287	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63288	Except in the papers, I don't know what happened with the prices of basic life supplies. I read in some newspapers that sour milk cost 3%, although they didn't say which manufacturer, because there are a lot of dairy producers. When we started asking about which sweets had been collected and what was it with that sour milk, we couldn't see at all. All I know is that sugar with 130 dinars, that sugar that's sold from stock stores, has come to 95 dinars. I believe, and I can see that the producers said that, too, the great sugar producers, that the new balance will be established at that wholesale price that will not exceed 80 dinars, which gives somewhere in the retail price below 95 dinars, and is very important for the candy producers and the juice producers because it opens them up more competitive capacity with foreign markets and with foreign producers. So it's important, when these things are said, that we talk about very specific things and what happens to prices. For the past six months, prices have been completely stabilized, moving downhill. When you ask me why the export of wheat and who had the damage of it is forbidden, only large companies. The same reason the export was opened. Why is it not forbidden to export tails to Croatia, although there is no basis for it, but it is not difficult? So the peasants can make more money. The ban on the export of wheat was not lost by any of the small farmers. Big companies? The state must also take care of the public interest. If we hadn't banned the export of wheat, we wouldn't have homemade wheat in half of May. The bread would be 100 dinars. A hundred dinars would be a loaf of bread. As long as I'm a minister, it won't be like that. It won't be like that. We need to open up the possibilities for everyone to play a fair game. If everyone doesn't make money in the chain we're in, the production will stop. So I think that slowly, step by step, we establish good relations and those who sometimes, because of some state-owned loss measure, understand very quickly that the point is that they all have more and that they all earn more because then their ability and potential is increasing. In a poor country, in a country where it's too expensive for a huge population, where farmers make little money, what kind of big company can survive? There's no big company without a powerful state. It's not possible for someone to be a very big company if they don't have a powerful state behind them. It is fortunate for Serbia to have as many powerful companies as possible, that means that we are a powerful state. Those who are the greatest have social responsibility for all those with them in the chain. Every big company, if it doesn't make it a better hundred thousand families, will have a problem, first of all, with its perspective. Our job as a government and your job as an MP is to create an opportunity for everyone to develop. We have this great potential and therefore I believe that Serbia will be a country that, for so long, will not be able to do so, will significantly improve its standard, because people will have the opportunity to earn more and to live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63289	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. We have completed and completed a search of the bill in principle and in particular, so the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue work in 60 minutes, so a few minutes before half-five. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The Minister is on his way, and he'll be joining us any minute. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from Ms Malovic, the minister of justice, I have called for the sittings to be attended by Mr Jovan Ćosic, head of the Justice Department and Zlatko Petrovic, head of the group at the Justice Ministry. You have received amendments to the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on High Council, which were submitted to the bill by the MPs together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kiršmarton, Miran Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Boris Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojić, Mirko Munjic, Aleksandar Martinović, Nemanja Šarović, Milorad Buch and together Nenadak Čana Čana, Bojan Kostrjan Žarović, Žarov Mirov Mirovar. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63291	Ladies and gentlemen, continue to belittle the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ms. Malovic, who is known to sit neatly and regularly when the laws she represents are being discussed, is not here today, or is currently not there, which speaks about the government's demeaning and unserious work in relation to the National Assembly, and not only when it comes to the presence of the government's representatives, but also about the government's obligation to parliament when it comes to the proposal for a KIM declaration, which you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, announced for days, so you told us through the media that we would have a session on the subject and on Sunday, and on Saturday, on Monday, and then on Monday, none of it. What is startling is the fact that yesterday, about an hour ago on a show, Boris Tadic announced that negotiations could continue without a declaration and you, through the media, in a direct phone call in the daily RTS, also informed us that it could be done without a declaration by the Serbian Parliament on KIM. It's really unserious and irresponsible, I'd say scandalous. When it comes to VSS and DVT laws, we also found in the principle debate that these two laws were changed because the VSS abolished the immunity of a member of the body, Blagoja Jaksic, who was arrested for abuse of office. We remind you that Blagoje Jaksish, Judge of the Major Criminal Court in Belgrade, has been suspected of helping his friend Ljubomir Biševec obtaining an illegal property benefit of more than 20 million dinars. The same Blagoje Jaksic, four or five years ago, was declared the best judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade and with such "quality" you elected him to the VSS. When we claimed that you did not have a good choice in both the VSS and the UDVT, we claimed, above all, that you chose representatives of the regime there, that you chose people who couldn't deal with such important functions because they were unworthy to perform these functions, we talked about some names, but, of course, when you plotted what they told you from Andric's wedding, the majority must accept it. Then, when you get into the situation that we were in because of Blago Jaksic, who was arrested and who, no less than a member of the VSS and who was one of the elected judges, members of the VSS, who decided on complaints from judges who were not elected, then all this says is not only about Blago Jaksic and not only about VSS and DVT, but about what you call reforming the justice system, which, by all accounts, brought the Serbian judiciary to such a low branch that never existed. So, the representatives of the judicial authorities have never been independent in Serbia, and they have never been as the Constitution provides apart from the executive authority, but what is now at work, especially since you executed this re-election, then it is indeed a disaster. You know, we also spoke when the re-election of judges was held, that at that time we presented the fact that the security services were following and listening, of course, unlawfully and unauthorizedly, to all the candidates for judges and prosecutors and that, among other things, it ruled on who would be elected judge or prosecutor. Of course, you chose this Mr. Blago Jaksic from such a group. As the judiciary in Serbia works, we need to remind ourselves of several examples of KIM. We spoke, when Mrs Malovic was here, I hope that she will join us today and I expect that she has prepared answers to some questions about what we have already asked her, and we have asked her what she is, as a competent minister and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done on the basis of the fact that the Cypriot municipal court in Mitrovica ruled Serbs from Raska, who drove trucks across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in the territory of KIM. We didn't get an answer from Mrs. Malovic. We asked, using the right of business to ask the authorities, is it a competent ministry and will, right now, Ms Malovic enter, and I am pleased to hear these questions because I really expect the answers, the competent state authorities, above all the Ministry of Justice, to do something about the fact that we have presented and which we are now repeating, that the president of the Assembly of the Serb municipalities in the AP KIM, who is otherwise a member of the SRS called Ničić Radovan, and with him was Dragutin Peric, the president of the SRS Pristina, had been driving advertising material from Kosovo, with the intention to cross over to Gracanica, i.e. in Caglavica, where did Mr Nicic and the Cypriot police bring them in, we took away the propaganda material that had actually been crying to the SRS with the influence of our President Vojislav SRS and the SRS – Not in the EU? Along the way, to remind you that this idea of the SRS is today followed by 54% of Serbian citizens. Also in the car of Mr. Nicic and Pericic were copies of the SRS newspaper "The Great Serbia", where it was also told on the front page that we would not be in the EU and imagine, there was a Greek policeman who was tasked with taking a copy of the newspaper "The Great Serbia" so that he could find out whether there was something they said contrary to the Constitution of the state of Kosovo. Of course everything he writes in "The Greater Serbia" is primarily a criticism of the ruling Tadic regime in relation to Tadic's regime towards Serbs in KIM, according to national and state interests. What also happened at the time, it was October 20th, it seems to me, those Ship's police officers asked Nicic to remove the SRB mark from his car, which is the mark that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have on their cars. Today we received a letter from Serbs from KIM, signed by Svetozar Petrović, Svetozar Janićijević, Snezana Percinović, Planinka Ivanovic, Nastka Zdravković, Novica Radić, Milivoje Milisavljevljevic, Gordana Dobrosavljevic, Biljana Kecić, Milomir Ivanovic, Saša Samardžić, Radovan Nikolčević, Javorka Prlinčević. It is about people who were employed in the state-owned enterprise of the state of Serbia, i.e. in a building belonging to the Republic Fund PIO, which was leased by the company "Genex" together with 36 employees, I am talking about Brezovica, and how does the state of Serbia behave? Some director of the facility, Ljubisa Vasic, quit all of these people. He's the only one and someone he's declared his deputy to receive their salary, while the other Serbs are fired. He now, for God's sake, fears that the Serbs who got fired are allegedly threatening him. Imagine, Director Ljubisa Vasic, the director who is in the state-owned enterprise of the Serbian state, has filed a criminal report against the Cypriot prosecutor's office in Pristina against these people who signed this letter. I read all of this because I expect the ministry, or the minister, to tell us if you are doing anything to protect every minister from your work, and then the government in general to protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. So, they are completely left there to themselves, naked, unarmed, opposing barricades to armed representatives of Eulex, armed terrorist group Rosa, and the regime is not doing anything but not even discussing parliament on the subject. They're just texting us like Boris Tadic, yesterday on that show, we'll never sign Kosovo's independence. Well, they won't because nobody's asking him to, they won't put on that one signature, but they'll put ten others around the independent state of Kosovo. What have we read in the media today and we would like to know, Mrs Malovic, were you in a group of ministers who advocated or otherwise, I hope that you will tell us that you have advocated that the Supreme Court of the false state of Kosovo will confess in this way, that in disputes concerning the cadastre and the parent books, in disputes that the Supreme Court of the false state of Kosovo will rule in the final instance? So this is really a scandal and the one who advocated it and signed it, no matter what it's written today, that act that's signed, we can't see anywhere, that one has to answer at that time. This is the most brutal violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and this is what the media say happened two days ago in the government of the Republic of Serbia, at the initiative of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. If the Minister himself, I assume you know and will explain it to us. As regards this member to whom the amendment has been submitted, which concerns Article 9, I am talking about this article that you added under Article 1. The bill, you also predicted that this member was talking about a distance from the post of member of the High Council of the judiciary and then you predicted that an election member of the Council could be away from that function when the procedure for its resolution was initiated from the position of member of the Council. We thought that this could not be left like this, but that this formulation must be replaced by the word "beings", because we simply think that the law, that the legal form cannot be this casual and cannot open up the possibility of abuse, and whenever you leave someone to decide whether or not they want to, you tell them in law that they can, and not necessarily, then the cases of Blago Jaksic will be who knows how many times repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63292	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63293	Let me just point out that I used this time before as an authorised representative. A colleague, Zoran Krasic, has submitted an amendment that speaks of a decision on the distance and duration of the distance of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary against which the proceedings may be conducted. You have here predicted that the decision to vacate a member of the Council should be made by the President of the Council. In line with the views of the Serbian Radical Party, we have intervened here with the amendment by drawing attention to you that it is not good for one man, whoever it is, to leave such broad powers and such jurisdiction. In any case, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that, instead of President of the Council, a decision on distance from the Council's post should be taken by the entire Council. Regardless of this argument of yours, which you wrote here, we're about to do it already, and that, minors, we don't need to accept, we disagree with this argument of yours, and I repeat, we're saying that you can't pass laws that will create the possibility of abuse and that will force you to amend the laws as the UN tribunal's Rules of Procedure, which are changing those Hague judges. That's what we told you in the principle debate. You know, this law came about as a result of the arrest of this Jaksic. Speaking of the law, one Democratic Party MP said Djura Mutavi introduced a protected witness institute into Serbia. You know, when Djura Mutavi showed up and Djura Mutavi decided to talk, then you decided to change the law and introduce a protected witness institute, modelled by The Hague tribunal. Now Jaksic has appeared to you, you are now regulating how you will distance or stay out of the position of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary or later of the State Council of Prosecutors when he commits a criminal act, and we are just drawing attention to you to accept these amendments, so that at least these changes will not happen that in 10-15 days or three months we have to re-change the law because something that is not regulated by this law will happen to you in practice. Mrs. Malovic, here we will use the discussion in particular to ask you something concrete through each amendment and expect answers to these questions. I would like to remind you that on 3 December 2010, the Serbian Radical Party participated, or shortly before the start of the hearing, at the time it was scheduled for a hearing in the case against Bosiljka Mladic, and then the Serbian Radical Party MPs and activists of our party were in the Court of Justice with the intention of supporting the Ratko Mladic family. There, a person with an official number of 279 dared to physically oppose Serbian Radical Party MP Milan Adamovic. We asked the First Basic Court in Belgrade to provide us with information on who this man is so that we could initiate an appropriate procedure against him. Meanwhile, he initiated proceedings against Milan Avramovic. Milan Avramovic, the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, was in the First General Prosecutor's Office on Friday, and there the deputy prosecutor offered to make a deal that Milan Avramovic paid 1,000 euros and to forget all that. That's what he told him. Imagine miracles, Mrs Malovic and Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, and Nenad Konstantinovic happened to be there. Apparently, he had some business of his own and accidentally broke into that office where Milan Avramovic was invited. Does that sound like a coincidence to you? Certainly not to us, but very deliberately. With nothing, Nenad Konstantinovic joined the prosecutor's deputy to convince Milan Avramovic that I don't know what account he pays 1,000 euros and to cover it up. Mrs. Malovic, please take advantage of your powers of supervision, to see who this prosecutor is, who is the one who filed a complaint against Milan Avramovic, who is the official number 279. Have mercy on those there to send us this information so that Milan Avramovic sues him for physically hitting on a MP who neither disrupted public order nor insulted anyone, only with the other MPs and activists of the Serbian Radical Party were present at the Hall of Justice, held the transparency "Stop the persecution of the Ratko Mladic family". We were only there to support Ratko Mladic's family in that terrible persecution they had before Mladic was arrested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63294	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63295	National MP Sreto Peric, by amendment, intervened on Article 1 or the new Article 9v, which states that this member is talking about the right to object. It states that for the reasons laid down in Article 9a of the position of the 3rd Act and for an electoral member of the Council, the Council shall be entitled to object within eight days of the date of delivery of the decision. We in the Serbian Radical Party think this should not stand, for the reasons prescribed in Article 9(3) of this Law, because it should be deleted because the Serbian Radical Party's view that there must be no difference in the reasons for the distance from the Council member's post when it comes to the right to object to a member to whom the distance may be concerned. So everyone has to be left with the right to appeal, and this whole member needs to be completely changed. We only have three amendments to this article because of the specificity of the procedure, because of the specificity of the person to which this member relates. We think that if all three of our amendments to Article 9v were accepted to get a member who would really be applicable and that would mean something when you're changing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63296	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63297	I'm staying with the amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS, but I'd like to join this opinion and the position of Ms. Verice Radete. Madam Minister, you have suggested that the decision to vacate a member of the Council be made by the President of the Council. Will you answer me what will happen if the President of the Council is to be removed from his post or from the Council, then who will submit the motion for a decision? It's about Article 7. I said I'm staying with this member where I invested the amendment. I ask you, you are not unknown, in practice, here, because of individual cases in Serbia laws are passed. This has not been recorded in any country, and it is not a custom, but when you have already predicted that the distance of a member of the council is being made on a proposal from the president, do you forget and why you have interfered with the mind that it may also be on the agenda of the President of the Council? Now tell me, how will the decision be made? What happens if he's on the agenda? Are we going to do it again in a month or two, and it's not excluded that any official, legal holder, or advice, should not be resolved or removed for any objective reason? What's gonna happen? This member was to be formulated in the following way: "The proposal for a distance, namely a decision on distance from the Council members' office, is being made by members of the council, mostly by votes, by not being able to participate in the vote of the one concerned." Therefore, this amendment, which Mrs Verica has invested in this direction, is absolutely necessary, I tell you, to accept it. It doesn't change anything, it just improves the text. And you're not going to get into a situation where one day, for a while, you show up to get the president away from the council, then you get into a situation where there's no way out, that you don't know who's going to make the decision about his distance. It would be only right - the decision to move away is made by members of the council by majority of votes and points. I repeat, you will have a big problem if it happens that the President of the Council needs to be decided. Then you will find yourself, or you will find yourself a proposing, and we will come into a situation where we re-change the law in individual cases which I absolutely believe is not such a solution, but it is necessary and necessary, the amendment is objective, that this decision on distance from function cannot be made by the president, for these reasons I have explained to you. So please, here, maybe I don't get it right, what's going to happen, what's the procedure, what's the procedure if we need to get the president out of the way? Please, if you could give me an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63298	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63299	Thank you. Mrs. Malovic, in the context of the story of judicial reform, you said that this government would, I say, push through the entire mandate because it meets its objectives, something like that you said. You also said that it fulfils its goal, among other things, through judicial reform, by passing new laws and by changing existing legal regulations, all in line with the needs of real time and in line with EU regulations. I could agree with you that this government really does meet its goal in some way. It is true that it is working to meet certain goals. Unfortunately, these targets, which the government has met, and as regards these areas on the agenda today, are indeed not in the role of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. It often happens that it is a pure satisfaction of the form, that it is a mere satisfaction of the form, and even more often that it is the satisfaction of the form that the EU requires of you. Therefore, the adoption of regulations, both new and changes to existing ones, are carried out by order from the EU. That's what we've been pointing out all along this government, when it comes to the judiciary. That's what we're pointing out today. That's kind of not what you're hiding. That's what you say in the explanation of the others, as well as this law. However, we continue to argue, argued, that this government absolutely does not care about the real application of these laws. Many of the regulations under these laws that you have passed so far are in practice inadmissible. Many are not regulations that are in real time and real space applicable. And this draft law on amendments and additions to the Visa Council Act of the judiciary is brought into the context of a specific case, a case which we discussed in principle, a case mentioned by Mrs Verica Radeta, with one basic objective, which is to prevent future members of the High Council of the Judiciary, for example. They have their own attitude, for example. Unlike your position as a member, or don't give God away from Bosko Ristic's attitude. That's impossible. If that happens, then there is the application of these rules which you have proposed and which will be adopted on the basis of this amendment and the addition of the law. This amendment, which I have submitted, concerns the case that a decision has been taken to vacate a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I asked for Section 3 to be deleted in the new Article 9v. The statement of objection shall not retain the enforcement of the decision referred to in Article 1, that is to say, paragraph 3. This expropriation, Madam Minister, is required in the context of the previous amendment, which requires that the deadline for the objection be reduced and that it be three days instead of eight, and that the time limit for the response be three days instead of the time limit that you provide for, instead of eight days. It is perfectly logical that the proceedings for the distance of the judge from the post of member of the High Council of the judiciary will be a procedure that will be very expeditative, a procedure that will be swift, accurate, precise, a procedure that will not allow public shagging and public movement by means of public information by the one whose distance from the post of member of the High Council of the judiciary is required. Mrs. Malovic, without public conviction and without a public link, as in practice with us, must not be allowed by yesterday to be a great judge, who until yesterday was a member of the High Council of Justice with extraordinary characteristics, and as one chosen as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary suddenly becomes someone who is unsuitable for that function, someone who is the worst, minor criminal. Is it possible for you to choose criminals as members of the High Council of the Judiciary? Where else is that? It's only because it doesn't do what anyone wants, just because he may have his own attitude, which has some views that may differ from the views of you or anyone else in the High Council of the judiciary and in the end, which has a view or viewpoint that differs from that of your EU. That's why he's exposed himself to public debauchery. In the end, we have no intention of defending this man or anyone else from the High Council of the Judiciary. That's the least we care about, but we're talking about your policy in principle, we're talking about how you deal with the unspeakable, how this is going on. I wonder what's going to change in the next period, probably in a short time, so you can get back in a situation to ask for changes to this law that's on the agenda today? What are the new circumstances going to take place to make you look for changes and additions to this law that you will soon, likely, adopt? That's what you do, that's what's not good, that's what's not good for Serbia at all, or for its citizens. You know, while you are already calling for this EU of yours, do they often change laws or laws longer. Are they even brought in to last longer? Well, of course. These are some basic things that we all learned in law school, and here are the amendments and additions of laws and regulations from today to tomorrow. As soon as something changes, as soon as someone has an attitude that differs from someone else's attitude, let's change and supplement the legal regulations. I don't think it's good for Serbia or for its citizens. That's why I think even these changes and additions that you're proposing will absolutely not contribute to anything good and nothing new will do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63300	Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Martinovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63301	Aleksandar Martinovic submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and requested that Article 2 be made. The bill is deleted. Let's remind ourselves of what this Article 2 applies to. In fact, in this proposal, it amends Article 45 of the basic law. You have here deleted part of Article 45, which states: "The decision to initiate the procedure can also give a measure of distance to the end of the discharge procedure". We in the SRS don't think this provision solves a problem that could possibly happen and that it's not good to leave things like this unfinished. Our view is that when initiating the procedure, the measure must be expressed until the decision-making process is completed. Of course, a crime is a crime, no matter who does it. There are also qualified crimes and there are expedient, difficult circumstances etc. Imagine not being treated in the same way as a member or president, don't give God, the High Council of the Judiciary with someone else who commits a crime, even if it's a judge. The high council of the judiciary is the one who chooses judges, resolves, or proposes resolutions, proposes distances from work, etc., therefore, great powers of the High Council of the judiciary, and then means great responsibility, I guess, should. You can't if a member of the High Council of the Judiciary commits a criminal offence for which he should be removed from office, or a criminal offence, here, as in this case you've had for abuse of official office, then you can't leave any possibility of running or expressing or not expressing a measure of distance but that the measure has to be expressed. What do you need someone who's committed a crime on the High Council of Justice? One day, what do you need? So, we don't think it's good, and I repeat, it's not good that you changed the law just to frame Bogdan Jaksic, a member of the High Judiciary Council, in law. Another Jaksic, in some other circumstances, will happen to you in another way. Then what are you going to do? What will you do with him, then, until you change the law? I really don't understand why you didn't accept these amendments. You've seen, if you've seen them at all, maybe one of your associates, that the amendments are really good. We really wanted to fix the text of the law to the amendments, because we think that members of the High Council of the judiciary, especially because we doubt their dignity and their expertise, have shown ourselves and these have been written to you by your various European friends through which reports, how badly you have done the re-election of judges, etc. It turns out that we from the SRS were absolutely right when we said you didn't make the right choice. You will not listen to us now, but explain to us that you do not accept the amendment for the reason it is in Article 2. Proposal for a law implementing legal and technical intervention in Article 45. I'm sorry, erasing the position, the decision to initiate the procedure may set a distance to the end of the discharge procedure, call the legal-technical regulation inconclusive. This isn't any legal-technical editorial. This is an essential question. Are you going to bring procedure or express a measure of distance or not? You've decided you won't. We don't think that's good, and that's why we offered you the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63302	National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63303	In Article 45, paragraph 1, which you have not touched here, it states that the decision to initiate the discharge procedure shall take advice within 15 days of the adoption of the initiative. We thought, again, because of the specificity of the person that this applies to, that this 15-day deadline should be replaced by an eight-day deadline. We think it's more appropriate, and when we wrote these amendments, when we talked about this bill, we even thought about this being 48 hours. There's no reason, imagine, to wait 15 days for someone to think about whether they're going to initiate a discharge proceedings against a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. Especially since that decision is made by the Council. What is the problem with meeting this advice immediately, if the basis for resolution happens, that the advice be met as soon as possible, and then that what is said by your colleague, when you shortened those deadlines, then there would be no need in Article 9v, again, the possibility of whether or not you want to resolve it, so that in some way you would deny the right to appeal, and yet the appeal does not delay execution, etc.? Because you've extended those deadlines a lot. This has to be some kind of "lex special," because it's about people, possibly, if there's anyone else besides this Jaksic. It's about people who are in the highest office, who not only judge in their cases, but they choose judges, propose judges, propose prosecutors. Imagine what these people are doing, what jurisdiction you're in that group at the High Council of Justice. Imagine what a responsibility it is and what important jobs you are doing in this country. For this reason, this must be some kind of "lex specialis", with the shortest possible deadlines – within eight days at the most. I'm saying, we were thinking of proposing a 48-hour deadline. In that time, to meet, to assess, to look at the reports of the MUP, the prosecution, and to decide so quickly, because detention in the High Council of the judiciary for so long has been unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63304	The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milorad Buha and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Mr. Buha, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63305	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, for the Serbian Radical Party, it is unacceptable this way to amend the law. This is the second amendment to this law that was passed in 2008. We need to take a critical look at this change, because it talks about how to norm and how to pass the law. Not enough attention is paid to the ministry and professional services in the ministries, including the government, as well as to the Assembly and individual provisions. More or less, it goes through all state institutions, from hand to hand, and finally here when the adoption occurs some Blagoje Jaksic and because of him, that is, because of the situation that has arisen, we need to change the law. Sometimes Serbian citizens of the Serbian Radical Party's intervention, particularly the amendment, are sometimes essential. Sometimes they're very important. Sometimes only in a particular detail talk about the seriousness and preparation of the Serbian Radical Party, when we consider individual legal proposals. We don't have enough time, but you have plenty of time. You have plenty of time to consider and get an expert opinion from various judicial institutions. There's been a problem, Blagoje's in custody, etc., we can't do anything now, let's change the laws, etc. You don't just do that. Now, Blagoje Jaksic, member of the most judicial institution, detained, media say, some crimes 13-15 years ago. Didn't the investigative authorities know about the crime committed 15 years ago? They knew. Now he's distracting someone and let's get him out of here. It doesn't work that way. You can't do that. You can't do that. If even the slightest shred of doubt exists that it is a criminal offence, that it may cause certain negative repercusions in its approach to certain items, documentation etc., it must not be in that function. You're still promoting him, too. That clearly speaks of a non-serious approach, slightly speaking. When we talk about whether or not we should do it this way, the position and position of the SRS are clear. More importantly, we are only dealing with one segment of the judiciary, instead of discussing more vital things today, state affairs, Kosovo, etc., my colleagues have talked enough about it. I'm going to stress in my opinion a very significant segment of justice, which you're running away from. These are the so-called lists of war criminals, what Croatia has provided to the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, but only as a list. In 2006, prosecutors of Serbia and Croatia signed an agreement on the exchange of documents on war crimes committed. Serbia's prosecutor didn't get that information. In 2010, you signed an Exchange of Documents Agreement with the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, and no documentation was provided by the Croatians. You delivered it. What did the Croats do? For them, it's all nothing. Officially the highest institution, the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia said – that is not the case for us. What about their lists? They were under obligation, according to the signed agreement, to deliver all documents to carry out a review of the proceedings. Has the procedure been audited? It's not. You signed that agreement. Why not? Who's responsible here? Who can bear the responsibility, if not the one who signed it? But she's carrying this institution, too. In front of this institution, there must be a list of complete documentation, to be evaluated here and to assess whether it is void or not. Your secretary of state said, a little bit and snidely, a little funny, imagine, says – a Serb who hit a Croatian horse is a war criminal and is suspected of a war crime. He's still on the list today and he'll be responsible for that one blow. If he hit a dog, he'd be a war criminal. Is that a crime of war crime? No, but it's on that list. You don't apply what you signed. You must perform a review of all documents. You don't have any papers? You have to look. A signed agreement? Give us the paperwork, let's sit down and talk. You see how the Croats work – nothing at all, it is out of the question. Tragically, none of the proceedings, not one of our judicial authorities, the prosecutor's body, SUP or any other body collected documentation on crimes against Serbs in Republika Srpska Krajina and the Republic of Croatia, except for those procedures that were initiated in 1991 by the mostly military prosecutor's office. The Croats said, "We don't care about that, it's nothing to us, and we won't talk about it." Everybody washes off of it. What about us? We blindly carry out all that they impose. We're doing all the work. You arrest people here and take them to Croatia. All over the world, Serbs are arrested, brought in, taken away, etc., and you are silent about all this. Is he allowed to keep quiet about it? He can't keep his mouth shut. There's got to be a debate here. This parliament must take a stand on all this. To this you are bound by international law, by domestic legislation, and by a lawsuit against Croatia, or by a counter suit against Croatia, which you referred to, here, was completed 10 days ago. You're a lawyer, you're a minister of justice, for which crimes are you talking genocide, if you didn't accuse any Croats? No Croat has been charged with the crime of genocide, war crimes, or only one on that 44 list that you delivered to the Croatian Ministry of Justice, only one Croat. There are no others, all Serbs. What genocide are you talking about? Why didn't this country collect all the documentation? You've received all the documentation from the Krajisniks who've been coming here since 1990, every crime is recorded in state authorities, but it's broken. Who knows where those statements are now. Is it summed up, collected, and has the previous procedure been conducted on our part, and even if it went further than that? The state institutions, starting with the first man in this country, are praying to God to withdraw the lawsuit from the Croatian side to get us away from it. It's a criminal act of complicity. If a man is aware that genocide has been committed, as the most serious crime, he must report and submit all documents on it. The president of the state says - we'll pull out. How can you pull something if it's genocide? Or are we playing? As little kids, you hit me, I'll hit you, I'll tell my dad, I'll tell my teacher, I'll tell my aunt, and so on. It's a game. Your secretary of state said seven days ago – since the Croats won't, we offered them to withdraw the lawsuit, but the Croats won't, they have the documentation, they have 1. 549 people on the list of so-called war criminals. How much do you have? You don't have anything, you don't have anything processed. You have nothing systematized, no procedure initiated, etc. It's beating into the blank, what your ministry does, what the state institutions of the Republic of Croatia do. How long? How long can you put up with that? Who's damaged? Citizens of Serbia are damaged because they bear costs. Here, I mentioned in the principle debate the Purda case. The man filed two charges. You said he committed a war crime, etc., you have the file, he did it indisputably, that and that, etc., and in the end you gave up the procedure. Why, if he committed a war crime? Who has the right to play with these people? If someone died, if someone was involved in a struggle to commit war crimes, they must answer. Well, we all declare that, at the end of the day when we really need to do the processing then we say - we don't have enough evidence. Who's to blame? Well, it's an international mess. It's of international importance what you've done. All the newspapers, all the state institutions of Serbia, all the individuals in power said that a crime was committed, etc., he must answer and ultimately, we have no evidence. What did your institutions do, the D.A.'s office and your superior ministry? You're the first man in this department, you've got to be responsible for all this. Well, we can't play, it's a game. How long do we play? What about the Krajisniks who are not allowed out of this country, they cannot leave their town just because they are put on the list because of political opportunities. Some aunt over there heard this guy did it, and that, and so on. What kind of evidence is that? In what system is that evidence? Why don't we do a review? Let's collect everything that's important and say, sit down with the Croats, and we need to free these people because there aren't enough elements. Up to 800,000 Serbs have been expelled here, all property taken, and you're playing with that people. Nothing legally returned to you. How long? As the Ministry of Justice, you must, as regards this case with Croatia, propose measures here, not legal measures, but suggest one piece of information about what you consider as the competent ministry as regards the overall trial procedure with Croatia and the disputes that are going on in Croatia against Serbs and those procedures that are open here and lists so-called. war criminals who are in fear and in terms of the countersuit, i.e. Croatia's lawsuit. You won't succeed in that dispute. The Croats, along with all the documentation they have provided, will deliver thousands more documents, but they are systematically collecting, delivering it to The Hague. What did you deliver? What can you deliver when all this is not summed up, no action is initiated? I'm telling you one more time, you can't play with the people, this is one game someone's ever gonna answer for. Don't do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63306	With a comment that you are overly widely interpreting the agenda, I conclude that we have completed a search on all amendments, so I am concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since, as you know, we have also carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 17th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Council of Prosecutors Act. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz, Zoran Krasić, together Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovan Radovan Radovanović, Sreto Perić, Dusan Marjic, Mirko Munjic, Aleksandar Martinović, Boris Martinović and Milorad Buha. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63307	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors are identical with the amendments to the VSS Act, so the amendments to the SRS are identical and all our arguments, too. Since we failed in this first part to convince Mrs. Malovic, we will try to convince her now that we are talking about amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. Of course, now we have to remind ourselves of the prosecution, the prosecution's duties, their work, especially the war crimes special. Mrs. Malovic, we were also asking some questions when you participated in the principle debate here, so I will remind you that you could give us the answers to these questions later. We're in the SRS, reminders for, since you started with what's-his-name. reforming that you are, in fact, tribunalising Serbia's judiciary. You denied it. On the other hand, we allege that the UN tribunal is an instrument in the hands of the United States and the EU, that it is a political so-called. A court aimed at the trial of the most prominent Serbs. If we were right, of course, we have repeatedly shown, and we are constantly proving that we are right, this is best spoken of by the UN tribunal's verdicts. I will return to this show that Boris Tadic participated in. At that time, one of the journalists, I think this Zarkovic from "Time" told him, around, that they come from various EU and here issue orders that must be listened to, which is undeniable, but it is interesting, and Boris Tadic did not deny it, he said – when they come to you from EU File, Brammertz, Dežer etc. So Brammertz doesn't come as a prosecutor but comes as a politician along with Phil, Deger, etc. Since you, I assume, spoke to Brammertz, I'm going to ask you if you asked him what we asked you and now we're asking you again, two things. Let's first ask you if you asked and did you at least meet Serge Brammertz with the fact that President Vojislav Seselj was denied the right to defend himself in The Hague? How? By denying him unsupervised communication with his legal advisors. We talked about it, and we asked you from here, and I don't know if they delivered that question to you from the Assembly. Therefore, Vojislav Seselj cannot contact his legal advisers unless he calls them to listen to the conversation and to make all that is heard and used in the conversation. Of course, they listen and so-called. privileged conversations, but at least they can't use what's heard in those conversations. What's in the finals of the trial of Vojislav Seselj, why did they deprive him of his communication? Because pre-election campaigns are being prepared in Serbia and God forbid they forbid him to communicate at all, as was before the last elections. It's all evidence that it's a political court. What they're doing now to Vojislav Seselj, and otherwise, for nine years there, they're violating human rights, for the exercise of their basic rights, they had to fight with hunger strikes and all this, I have to remind you, because none of the authorities ever speak to you every few months, and Serge Brammertz comes to you every few months, he didn't say anything on the subject. The ban on unsupervised communication with legal advisers Vojislav Seselj did not occur at the time of Tito's communist regime, when he served in Zenica and was tried as a dissident. So, the most cruel violation that can happen, because one of the most incomparable, most sacred rights, you certainly know that, is the right of the defendant to defend himself. I ask you, did it occur to you to ask that Brammer man – do you know what you do to Serbs in The Hague tribunal or do you invite him here to hang out, so he can write a report there to justify a salary of 48 thousand euros? That is why the UN tribunal's proceedings are stalled. I asked you, Mrs. Malovic, last time you were, and I hope you'll let us know if you asked Mr. Brammertz about that, too. An interview with Jakushi Akashi, former UN Secretary-General for the Balkans, was published, and he said - that the only relevant report on who is responsible for the deaths of 68 innocent civilians at the Markales market is all the time available to The Hague tribunal and that in the UN which established the court for the former Yugoslavia. The blame for this tragedy cannot be put on the Bosnian Serb army. Last time I told you, Mrs. Malovic, that it was a crime in Markalam, that the accused were generals Milosevic and Galic and that General Galic was convicted. Has it occurred to you to tell that Brammertz – you have to review the procedure, you have convicted a man of a crime for which he is not guilty? For an act that cannot be put in place, here is Yakushi Akashi, saying what has been announced is not only Akashi's opinion, but an act of the UN Security Council. From the beginning available to The Hague tribunal, but who cares? Let's not worry about those in The Hague tribunal, you don't care. Not to worry about the representatives of the regime, you only had the task of sending everyone you requested to The Hague tribunal and saying the other day Boris Tadic – who normally thought that when the Hague condition was met that all conditions for Serbia's entry into the EU would be met. Well, no one's normal thinks that. We knew, but what about his normality, when he claimed it, and all those who followed him. So, I expect you to answer this and all the other questions that we ask you and that we're going to ask you, as we expect you to look at these amendments again and think about them, the amendment where Article 1, and in this new Article 9, we're asking to delete the word "can be" to replace it with "being," of course, represents the position of the SRS on how the legal norm, and this is a legal-technical editorial, but it's also essential. What does a legal norm have to look like? The legal standard must be clear, precise, concise. Such that it does not leave many options if it is possible to leave at all the possibilities for abuse, and in whom you have after this Jaksic, which you have elected to the High Council of the judiciary, in which you, Mrs Malovic, have such unlimited confidence in this High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, that you can leave him at will whether or not he will step away from the office of a member of the State Council of Prosecutors if he commits any criminal acts. You'd better accept our amendments. You can see that they are both meaningful and logical and that they really contribute not only to improving the text of this law, but to raising the level of legal protection and legal certainty in the state of Serbia, which is very, very, very missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63308	Mrs. Radeta, it's obvious you've been talking about the amendment for one minute. I would ask you, indeed, that, in particular, mental health qualifications, even if I understood the political zeal of your participation in this debate, there is no future way in which you address both Serbian MPs and officials. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63309	A colleague, Zoran Krasic, has submitted an amendment to the same amendment and to the same member as to this law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary and to the State Council of Prosecutors, and has also proposed that this Article 9b. be replaced by the first President of the State Council of Prosecutors with the words "State Greater". Again, we reiterate that this amendment is better because it certainly reduces the possibility of abuse in deciding on distance and length of distance from the post of member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Although you really want this law and these laws to make sense and not be changed again. You see, you passed this law in 2008, so you changed it in 2010, so you're changing it now in 2011 to have time to deal with something else in the ministry within your jurisdiction, let's once accept our amendments, to pass a law that you won't have to do again because of some new situation to change. You have to admit that it's really a much better solution, that the state's senior prosecutor is deciding and making a decision about the distance, possibly the distance of a member of the State Council, than the president himself. A colleague, Jojic, when he spoke about a similar amendment to this article in the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, asked you a good question. Who's going to decide if it's necessary to get the President of the State Council out of office? No one guarantees that even the president of the State Council of Prosecutors might turn out to have done as did this Jaksic, whom you arrested. Then who's going to decide and what are you going to do with it? I'm speaking hypothetically. What are you going to do with him until you do because you have no instrument at all that anyone can make a decision about the distance of the President of the State's Attorney General and the President of the High Council of the Judiciary? No one in the state can do that. What happens if one of these two high-ranking officials happens to be able to get out of work for a felony? What are they gonna do in the meantime? Imagine if it happened during an extraordinary session of the Assembly, when the Assembly doesn't ambush at all, you can't change the law, what are you going to do? Isn't it easier for you to accept both this amendment and the one that just before the amendment to this law on the High Council of the Judiciary and that you don't have a headache and that you don't think about whether it's going to happen or not but that you have a law ready if it really happens? So, we propose that you adopt the amendment of counterpart Zoran Krasic to improve the text of law and legal certainty in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63310	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you are, Mrs. Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63311	We're not in a hurry, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. I'm applying neatly. Article 1 or new Article 9 v. speaks of the right to object and foresees in this position, firstly, a decision on distance for the reasons prescribed in this previous article – an election member of the State Council has the right to object to the State Council within eight days. We have predicted, or suggested in this amendment, again as in that previous law on the same article, that this part should not remain for the reasons laid down in Article 9a(3) of this law because we do not consider that there is any difference here in the reasons for the distance from the office of the State Council of Prosecutors when it comes to the right to object. You can't deny anyone the right to object, no matter what he's done. I was just talking about an uncut and one of the most sacred rights, defense rights. I was just talking about an uncircumcised, one of the most sacred rights, the right to defend. So, whatever he did to this Bosko Jaksic, what's his name, the one you arrested, whatever he did, whatever crime he did, and it's obvious that it's an abuse and some big money, he can't be denied the right to defend himself, he can't be denied the right to object. It can't, and what he'll be able to prove or what he'll be able to prove by the prosecutor, it's still a matter of procedure. So you can't choose for the reasons prescribed in the article or not prescribed, everyone has the right to object and every law must make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63312	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mirko Munjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63313	Since this amendment, submitted by counterpart Dusan Maric, is in direct connection with the next amendment, which I have submitted, I will say a few words about this amendment. A colleague, Dusan Maric, asked for his amendment to be replaced by the word "three" in article 1 in new Article 9v. It is, therefore, the deadline required to file an appeal, i.e. to decide on an appeal for a member of the State Council of Prosecutors who objected to the decision of the State Council. In his explanation, the Government tells him this: The Government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the draft law solution is more consistent, given that Article 9v, paragraph 1, provides for a period of eight days for the submission of the complaint, and that the same time limit is also foreseen for the decision to be taken by appeal. A shorter deadline than the deadline laid down in the draft law would be difficult to achieve in practice, given that the State Greater collective body is composed of 11 members. So, Mrs. Malovic, as far as I understand this argument, the fundamental thing in it is that the State's larger prosecutor is a collective body consisting of 11 members, and it would be difficult for them to come from their post to Belgrade within three days to decide within three days on the objection of that member of the State's Council of Prosecutors. I think this is an extremely inappropriate explanation. This Serbia is not, unfortunately, so big that it cannot be reached within three days. Do you know that Belgrade can be reached from the southern destination within three, four hours? Also, from north to Belgrade could be reached perhaps sooner. The three-day period is not enough but is indeed an appropriate time limit to hold a session of the State Council of Prosecutors within three days and to decide on it by appeal. What do you need an eight-day deadline for? I said a little while ago, and I'm going to repeat for the public, all the longer the deadline in such sensitive things is the more opportunity to do something else, in some way that no one wants or maybe no one wants to. Maybe it's conscious, I don't know, but it's really so sensitive when it comes to objecting to the one who's moving away from the state's council's office. This is so sensitive for the very responsibility of these people who are members of such an important state body. What's taking you eight days to get the State Council to meet? Isn't it a perfect three-day term for them to come out of their seats and hold that seat of the council of the State and decide according to their complaint? I don't think you've been following some of the principles that are really needed here when it comes to such an important case. I think you should have accepted the amendment submitted by colleague Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63314	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63315	Mrs. Malovic, since it is an analogy with the amendment and addition of the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, everything that has been said in principle about amendments to the Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary applies here also when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. So that something unexpected would not happen in the State Council of Prosecutors, in any case, you bring regulations that regulate the issue of distance from the office of a member of the State Council of Prosecutors, because it is indeed obvious that every day it becomes increasingly obvious that you, your ministry, have since the beginning of this famous reform of the judiciary every month or even every day, are moving from one phase to another. Here, and here, in the context of changing these rules, it's about moving from one stage when something has to be done so far, so it is done or not done, in a phase where something has to be done and there is no compromise. This is obvious from these regulations that you are applying to the adoption of the congregation, and not only is there no compromise, there is no mercy for those who are not obedient. This is clearly seen from the case of that Jaksic from the High Council of the Judiciary. This is clearly evident from the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the State Council of Prosecutors Act. After all, you gave both judges and prosecutors, as well as members of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors a clear message that you didn't even want to put into obland, which you didn't want to interpret between the ranks, but you said it directly. Let me remind you, you said whoever shows a contribution to judicial reform will receive a reward for their work. On the other hand, whoever doesn't answer that in the right way we'll find a way to make his work worth it. There's something you've wrapped up in the coast, but I think it's clear to everyone what you're trying to say. Besides, these regulations that you're proposing here make that clear. This is where you envisioned it as adequate to the High Council of the Court of Justice from the office of a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. In any case, as in the State Council of Prosecutors, the case as in the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, as in the case of Jaksic, there should be a regulation that will remove an insubordinate member, a member who does not have the same attitude as you, who does not think as you, who does not think as your EU immediately from this post, from the post of member of the State's senior prosecutor. We asked the amendment, as well as in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, to be deleted in Article 1 in the new Article 9v of Article 3. This is why we asked the previous amendment to reduce the deadlines for filing an appeal, as well as the deadlines for resolving the complaint from eight to three days. Then it is perfectly normal and logical to wait within such short notice for the Council's decision of the State Council of Prosecutors. Why did we ask for shorter deadlines? Simply so what this government has been practicing for a long time doesn't happen. First, some news as an affair is being released into public information, and then the media hack begins, media persecution starts, the entire media trial begins, judgment is being passed. Then the one who usually goes forward with the conviction. Then, after that, there's this real procession, which was supposed to be the first. That's why we're asking, as I said in the previous amendment, for the deadline to be reduced from eight to three days. Mrs. Malovic, there is a real impression when it comes to your reform of the judiciary since the time in 2008, when, at the end of the year, you started with this famous reform of the judiciary, that simply, really, without malpractice and without any need to offend anyone, you seem to be making your own judiciary. Not you yourself, but a certain group of people. There's a feeling that by all the way you're doing that judicial reform, you want to make someone your own justice system. Persistently, while both those from the Venice Commission, the EU, etc., warn you of many things about the wrong policy, when it comes to judicial reform, you remain silent. But it is not for us that you remain silent about everything that comes to you from the EU as a criticism, we don't care about it, and we love what it is like, but simply, you remain silent about the arguments that we here in the Serbian Parliament present to you. We do not really believe in the sincerity of these criticisms coming from the EU. You know, and when it comes to the State's Major Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, or the judiciary in general, what do they care about our judiciary? What they care about is whether relations in the State Council of Prosecutors or the High Council of the Judiciary will be regulated properly and adequately. Well, what is the interest of someone out there from the EU, someone who takes 15% of our state territory, having a real and justifiable interest in solving the issue in our judiciary in the right way and properly? Therefore, persistently insisting on compliance with EU rules, I think there is no specific standoff and there is no standoff in some sound reasoning. Because if this Europe is blinded, so it doesn't really see the suffering of the Serbian people in KIM, what are we going to do in such a Europe? Why do we need such a Europe? After all, most citizens now make it clear and unequivocally clear to you now and say that they are absolutely not interested in Europe and the EU. People have many problems of their own and beyond the EU. They know that in this and such an EU, these problems will only accumulate. That is why this reform of the judiciary, which you are doing, is really not good and we believe that these proposals, which you are delivering to the Serbian Parliament, are not real, are not good and do not go in the interests of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63316	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63317	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, I had no intention of reporting, because the work of the opposition is that it attacks the ruling majority and that it attacks both the ministries and everything that it thinks is badly done in this country, even for those things that the same opposition knows are very well done, because the job of the opposition is to criticise the ruling majority. However, criticism should be constructive, offering some good solutions, some alternatives. I believe that the job in the area of justice has been done in the best possible way, with respect and expertise and high professionalism of all the people in the ministry and that there is certainly the greatest step after the change and after the establishment of this government. So, I think that, above all, you should be congratulated on everything you've done, and I believe that all these laws you're making here are not the result of any pressure and blackmail, but the result of the willingness of the ruling majority to change this country and to regulate all the institutions and segments of this society according to the needs of our society, rather than in accordance with the demands that we have. We do not go, nor do we want to go to the EU to court anyone, nor do we pass laws and implement reforms so that someone likes them and likes them. We do it because we think it's good for the citizens of this country. We are absolutely convinced that the greatest benefit from the work we do has citizens of the country not only for the mandate of this government, but also for the mandate of future governments. We are sure that when our mandate is over, we can be proud of what we have done in the area of judicial reform and strengthening the institutions of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63318	Thank you. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63319	This is the amendment of MP Aleksandr Martinovic. These others, as far as we're concerned, are not MPs. I know you don't like it, but I have to take advantage of a deputy named WikiLeaks who reminds him that Miodrag Rakic was still on November 3rd, which Manter said in 2008, got a warrant from Boris Tadic, who gave him the task six months earlier to encourage Nikolic to break up with the SRS because the base supporting SNS will be important for Serbia's progress on the pro-European programme. So, just a confirmation of what we've been saying over and over and over again, and that reminds you that it's a group of people who didn't participate in the elections and that they can't be MPs. I'm just embarrassed, Alexander Martinovic is read along with the group. I'm on my way to the amendment, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Please, don't derange yourself. Mrs. Malovic, we didn't get an answer to the question, when it comes to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, so we repeat the question. We are informed in the media that the Croatian prosecution has initiated proceedings against Aleksandar Vasiljevic and says that Aleksandar Vasiljevic is charged with commanding responsibility for the abuse of civilians and prisoners of war in five camps in the Serbia-Croatian area, and this Zivanovic, because he knew about torture in camps, has done nothing to prevent it. We asked you to inform yourself of this Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes, as Mr Vekaric here said that the indictment was sent to the court through legal aid and that they had not yet received and that they could not speak of their next steps. I remind you that at the time, your Secretary of State Slobodan Homen stated that it is not time for Alexander Vasiljevic to be prosecuted now and imagine, is it premiseable to you, I think, because it happened, your Secretary of State to say that it is not time to take a year for a war crime. We asked you and asked you to inform Mr. Vukčević, first of all, why does he not initiate proceedings against Aleksandar Vasiljevic? Why is Aleksandar Vasiljevic not prosecuted for those crimes he may be convicted of, and not for one for which he cannot be convicted, from stealing huge amounts of money from Vukovar Bank, to attacking the Jewish cemetery in 1991 at the Zagreb cemetery Mirogojno, until the attack and the same year on the Jewish municipality in Zagreb, to the fact that Alexander Vasiljevic is a false witness in all and in fact that he is a false witness in all proceedings in The Hague tribunal where he is sought as a witness, says that this is why the state of Serbia and the regime in Serbia protects him? This Aleksandar Vasiljevic is responsible for the crime on Ovcara. He took three colonels there, or sent them to Ovcara, and they organised a crime in Ovcara under his conductor's baton. I'm sure you know that Mr Vekaric and Vukcevic know that. The question really arises: why aren't these actions being conducted, and here, on the other hand, you're running proceedings against people who are neither guilty nor debtor? You accuse the entire Serbian people of a crime in Srebrenica, you called it genocide even. So I'm talking about the regime, but you're not going to do what your job is. I am also talking about, above all, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office that conducted the Ovcara crime procedure here in Belgrade, so some people are neither guilty nor debtors, such as Predrag Milojevic, Chinese, have been sentenced to years of imprisonment. Mrs. Malovic, you must, as resolute minister, really take care of yourself within what is your jurisdiction. We know you can't interfere directly with solving a specific case, but you have jurisdiction over the right to control. Use that right. Use it and don't blindly trust everyone in the D.A.'s office or the D.A. or the D.A.'s attorneys and his war crimes deputies. Believe me, there are so many work gaps and this war crimes prosecutor's office and the D.A. and Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac and so on. A huge number of criminal charges, due to serious affairs, due to serious crime of certain, god forbid, high-ranking officials and your party and representatives of authorities and tycoon, are in the offices of the state's attorney. There's nothing to be done. We ask you, "What is waiting for?" When will this fight against corruption and crime begin? Boris Tadic announces it whenever he shows up on TV. Whenever he needs to grow his popularity, he comes out and says it will be a dangerous action to fight corruption and crime. We ask – when? Corruption and crime continue to flourish. The D.A.'s office, or the D.A.'s office, is not doing their job the way they should. They're directly dependent on the executive. Of course, you set it up with the law. When you passed the law, we warned you that prosecutors should not be under direct control by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must not propose them. You didn't listen to us. You have now, and you do not have you, but have a problem with the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia which does not operate the judicial system. A country where one of the strongest pillars doesn't work can't make any progress. We now warn you of these amendments, at least do this law in case any new Blagoje Jaksic happens to you. Do it with the law, so you can welcome him with the law. You, in this article where hekol Martinovic asked for an amendment to delete this position of Article 3, Article 9v, provided that Article 45, which says that a decision not to initiate the procedure can give the measure of distance until the resolution procedure is completed. The same goes for the state, as for the High Judiciary Council. You must accept the fact that these are not ordinary officials, members of the state council of prosecutors. They are not ordinary officials, but they are people who elected all the prosecutors in Serbia, i.e. prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. That's the group of people who make up the state's major prosecutor. You know all the judges and prosecutors are cleared, so they're re-elected. These are people with a huge amount of power, which you also allowed by law, because you invented the choice of judges and prosecutors from the National Assembly. Yes, only the first choice is in the National Assembly. Is that right? That's right. I don't know why you're looking at me like that when you know I'm right. Of course, I know what the basis is. What can be done is to accept this amendment to get at least in this part a serious text of the law that will not surprise you, if God does not let happen again some Bogdan Jaksic. We really don't want that, believe me. We don't want to find out that the D.A.'s office was someone who, I still don't want to call him a criminal because he's still being prosecuted, he's just being charged, and we're gonna see if he's going to be convicted, we don't want anyone else who's the perpetrator of the crime to turn out to be a member of the State Council of Prosecutors or the High Council of the Judiciary. But if it happens, wait for him ready with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63320	Mrs. Radeta, the truth works, just some facts. The procedure for the Begeci assembly centre is being conducted in Croatia. That's one fact. The second, Mirogoj, is not the Mirogojno name of the cemetery in Zagreb. So, Mirogoy. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. You've got six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63321	I'll be right there. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't have the habit of reporting on the topics that come from this legal area or legal regulations. I think the SRS has people who can talk about it competently and can talk about it. But what I can't keep quiet about is when anyone or anyone else comes to praise Serbia's judicial reform since it began to be implemented since the government's term of office. Everything we've been saying, incriminating the concept of government, from the adoption of the Law on the Network of Courts here, has indeed been confirmed in practice that we were right, from the functioning of courts geographically, to essentially, as you lawyers say, about the scales of your operation and your obligations and your jobs. Of course, and thank God the SRS did not participate in the bestowal and selection of prosecutors etc., we believe that politics has nothing to ask for, in this one sick or pathological sense, but we are full of papers that prove our claims rather than claims that you implemented justice reform properly. What we can agree on is that this is your maximum. We're just afraid, in fear we're thinking about what the Serbian judiciary would look like if you did it on average or with a minimum of power, if this is the case with your maximum political strength and will. These are the papers, Madam Minister, for you, the official documents of the courts you have been handling since 13 October 2011, in the Vranj Criminal Court, the Department of Vladic's Han, a solution to the ageing 15 cases for the period from 1 January 2011. These items include cases relating to local officials of municipalities in which the Court of Justice in Vranj operates. Imagine that. These infringements include cases initiated by a market inspection, a state body. The state organ starts, finds a find, finds a mistake, finds a problem. The courts won't judge, they won't work because they're under political pressure because they're politically elected and placed. That's the problem. Here's again from the public prosecutor's office, again the same problem, a public firm in Surdulica, a municipal company, has been charging prices against the law for three years. You initiate the proceedings and a public prosecutor or some of them from the D.A.'s office informs you, will be decided after the Constitutional Court's decision has been made. That's from 1.12.2010. Then you get the court's ruling, the ruling of the administrative court, Madam Minister, on 24 March 2011, is hidden for three months, we cannot reach the court's decision - to this day no one is responsible for the fact, nor has a case been brought against someone who, past the law, charges certain municipal services to the citizens of the Surdulica municipality. Now I wonder – where are these epochal results of judicial reform? Not to go into serious crimes, etc., these are violations, you can say, as you lawyers say – there was no acquisition without grounds. But if this is a mirror of the superhuman and epochal efforts and the success of the regime to advance and reform the judiciary, we really get a chill at the thought of what it would look like to have done not without but with half the force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63322	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63323	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I did not understand who submitted the amendment and what it said in the amendment, but I understood the reasons for the amendments and the facts that were made here. You know, someone can talk about judicial reform by looking at and bringing up individual cases here, and there's always going to be some irregularities in individual proceedings, there's always gonna be these controversial cases that everyone can catch up with and disqualify the judiciary. But when we talk about the essential measures that the justice reform has contributed to, if we talk about the fight against organised crime, if we talk about what the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice did, by deciding on a blow to organised crime, when we brought here in this House the law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime, which some parliamentary groups, perhaps unconsciously, may not have voted, when we talk about what was done to bring these organized criminal groups that represented evil for our country and society to a place they deserved, to bring these organised criminals to justice, when we got congratulations from the world on the successes of our security services and the prosecution for organised crime, it's easy to present the flat-rates that the situation in the judiciary is not good. Today I heard an argument saying that the number of proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights is increasing. It speaks of citizens' awareness that they can appeal to that court, but on the other hand, I will remind you that at one time I could not complain about the solution to the detention, let alone complain to some higher instance that this detention was unfoundedly determined for me. Not to mention some time when these countries were harald organized criminal groups and when they even had type epithets - Mr. Legion, or some other epithets they were getting. I think that a huge job has been done in the judiciary and that we are all together, as the ruling majority, and all the political parties that make up the ruling majority, have really made a very significant contribution to judicial reform and that this reform of the judiciary and this significant contribution are being looked at in the fact that there are no more organised criminal groups in Serbia, that these organised criminal groups are no longer involved in money laundering through privatisation processes, that these organised criminal groups are terrified of those measures that we have taken, such as the confiscation of property acquired by crime, that we have passed this law concerning people who are involved in politics and public affairs and that these people must be aware that if they commit a crime can be held accountable for crimes. New legal solutions are also being prepared to qualify for new crimes, such as intentional bankruptcy of the firm, for which serious penalties will also be prescribed. When we look at all this on a global scale, I think it's all that and how it's a good picture of Serbia and that Serbia is no longer a country that represents a polygon for the survival of criminal groups, but is a country where justice can be achieved and achieved. Of course, there are a lot of cases left in the past. There's a lot of cases that have been going through courts for years. There is still a need to monitor the courts, to constantly influence the minds of the judges. Of course, there are also controversial cases where someone, prosecutor or judge, may be wrong about the oath he took as a judge or as a prosecutor, so he'll do something that isn't worthy of that function he performs, but again, I'm saying, it's sporadic cases. Generally, our judiciary is moving in the right direction. That's what the speed of the process is about, among other things, the number of laws we've passed and applied, which are not just passed as laws that would be a dead letter on paper. And finally, that's what the effects of that reform say. Let me just tell you that under the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime, several hundred million euros were put into the state budget, which through money, which through the material and technical means that were given, from the folk cuisine through the poorest and most endangered groups of the population, to the state authorities and institutions that are fighting organised crime. Once again I say - all congratulations on the courage to carry out some measures. All congratulations to the people of the Ministry of Justice who took responsibility to arrange things in the area of the judiciary according to the measure of the modern man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63324	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted in the same text by the People's MPs Milorad Buha and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuha. You've got another minute and a half from the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63325	As with the previous law, so is here, but before that a few sentences about what is said here, which is that the opposition is there to be constructive. The opposition is here to be a co-ordinator of power. This assembly, and in particular the opposition, has an obligation to control the government's work and to be critical and constructive and unstructured. I think the SRS is constructive, and through the dialogue that is being conducted here, through certain objections and through certain suggestions that point to problems in society and seek and offer solutions in terms of overcoming everything that bothers us in the system. That's how he helps the Ministry. Through this debate and through these two draft laws, we have made many remarks, constructive remarks, all that we as MPs and as citizens see what does not fit and ask you to react. You are here, you are an executive body, you have systems and you have a way of doing certain adjustments, changing the situation, offering solutions and proposing to the Assembly everything that you think is important, etc. What I see, and among other things, is about this amendment, it's about the prosecution, the prosecution has one big task, you're probably aware of that, but I don't know how much in public. We did not get enough information on what the D.A.'s investigative authorities and authorities did in terms of the collection of documents and the conduct of the process in human trafficking. It's about the most serious crimes. Among other things, it is now an international legal aspect after our initiative and after a declaration adopted by the Council of Europe and the UN authorities have also taken certain activities, etc. The state institutions of the Republic of Serbia were obliged, and in particular the prosecutor's office to carry out the procedure, to collect all facts and data, to press charges and to be tried. Who? The perpetrators of crime. Why? Because they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the Constitution says. We had to have information here and consider it before it was presented to international institutions and information on how many cases were ruled. Do we have one? We don't. Do we have the charges? We don't. Then what are you talking about? Furthermore, the SRS points to problems in the functioning of the financial system and asks the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia to unpay everything publicly, to see who does not pay the tax. Serbian citizens pay taxes. Let's see who doesn't pay? Officially, we're getting information through the media, a little bit of it coming out of the context of the tax administration that it's some amount of five billion euros. Maybe it's five million euros, but you have to know who doesn't pay. Those who don't pay must bear the consequences. Has anyone ever had any controversies before? It's mostly not. Who doesn't pay? They don't pay tycoons. It is a total of over three billion euros. Why is he keeping quiet about that? Who's responsible? The IRS, the Ministry of Finance and the Government. What are you now as the Ministry, you have on a bunch of charges against individual perpetrators, non-payers, how many proceedings have been carried out? Not one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63326	The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63327	Madam President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank all those who participated in the debate on amendments, but also those who participated in the principle and I would like to give you this opportunity to answer some of the questions raised in today's debate. First, first of all, I want to say that I cannot agree that the Ministry of Justice as a proposing of this law is responsible for which it is not regulated in the original version, when the law is adopted in the Assembly, a regime that will apply to members of the VSS, if a certain criminal procedure occurs. In fact, I would remind you that in the proposal for a VSS law, when adopted in 2008 in the Assembly, the members of the VSS, with all rights and obligations, had largely drawn from the judge's own status. However, by adopting one amendment, and this amendment did not come from the ruling coalition, it came from one opposition party, members of the VSS, to say how much they got out of the regime of judges, and they must be subject to special provisions that will be found in the VSS Act, so that the suspension applied to judges, when criminal proceedings take place, cannot apply to members of the VSS. Of course, I am not transferring responsibility to the National Assembly, which adopted this, but is an indication to us that, as legislators, when we accept amendments, we must fully consider the consequences of accepting such an amendment can be produced. That is why, even now, at the end of 2011, we are, after three years, in the National Assembly with amendments and primarily additions to the VSS Act. As for the proposal for an amendment relating to the need to have the mandatory distance of a member of the VSS when the procedure is in place, I must say that I am very much in agreement with it and I do not believe that it is the place against which the criminal proceedings have been initiated, to sit, both in the VSS and in the DVT. I simply don't think it's sustainable because there are large palettes of criminal acts, sometimes these crimes have been done in an untimely manner, sometimes they're not, of such importance as to influence the judge's dignity. This may sound a little paradoxical when I say it, but it's just like that, and I'm deeply convinced that you're aware of that fact, too. The question has been asked what happens to VSS President, or DVT if the procedure is initiated. They are not covered by what applies to the members of the VSS, because the president is, in his capacity, there, and he draws his original rights and obligations from the judicial or prosecutorial functions, so that he is subject to all those provisions relating to judges and prosecutors when criminal proceedings are initiated. I fully understand that when the law on VSS and DVT is discussed, it cannot be firmly held by the members who make up the bill, but is also discussed with the full reform of the judiciary. Like I said, it's completely understandable and I accept that kind of discussion because I think it's necessary and necessary. It's a pleasure to have you in this distinguished home to discuss it. Unlike some previous times, I can assure you that criminal charges are not held in drawers. I don't want to say if they're going to have the fate of a trial, whether there's going to be a trial, but they certainly won't stand in drawers like they used to be. There may be an impression, precisely because of these negative experiences from the past, but sometimes a pre-criminal procedure may take a while from the moment the application is filed to the initiation of the trial, because sometimes it's very complex crimes, whose processing must sometimes involve several authorities, not only the MUP, who is competent to shed light on criminal acts, but, for example, If it is some property crimes, which has been mentioned here recently, the tax administration must participate, etc. I'm saying this primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, because I know you know it well enough. As for the election of the prosecutors themselves, why the government is proposing them, I may not think that this is the happiest solution, but it is a solution that we must respect because such a solution is contained in Article 159(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if we are talking about prosecutors and if we are talking about the Republic Prosecutor, such a solution is contained in Article 158(2). The Constitution. We have tried to re-referencing that provision to the laws because we have introduced the obligation to propose DVT to the Government of Prosecutors. I would say, at least until now, such an experience has been that the government respects what the profession says. Also, I want to point out the fact that members of the VSS and DTV in the line of judges, that is, prosecutors are chosen by the profession itself, are not chosen by the government, even less by the Ministry of Justice, and the final seal on the fact that the National Assembly is their choice in this distinguished home. For other issues that are not related to the subject, I will give an answer in writing. I'm trying to answer all these questions, so I believe I'll be able to answer these questions as well. Once again, I thank you and express my hope that this law will soon be passed in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-11-14-0.u63328	I thank Mrs Malovic, Mr Cosic, of course, the minister in particular, who, as always, is active with us, in live communication. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 17th November 2011, starting at 10.00pm, as the day for voting on all agenda points of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Let me inform you about the way you work today. At 11.00 a.m., we'll be due to the activities that will be in the Assembly's hall terminating until 13.00 hours, and then at 13.00 we'll continue voting, so please concentrate these thirty minutes, as far as we're doing, to do the most work we do. After that, at 13.00 hours, we'll get back to work. The session I scheduled for 14.00 hours will begin at the end of this session and today we will have a debate on the first item of the agenda, or the Rehabilitation Act. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. It's obvious there's more of us in the O.R. Please place your cards in the e-system Members' Units. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. How many of us there are 126, there are conditions to work. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We declare the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a NATIONAL STRATEGY, PROTECTION AND SURVEILLANCE IN EXCUSE SITUATION I put to the vote a proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations. Since the National Assembly accepted this proposal, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 160(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move on to a decision on amendments. On Part Three of the Strategic Area. "Use knowledge, innovation and education to build a culture of security and resilience at all levels" the amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 107 voted in favour. I find that the amendment has been adopted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the National Strategy Proposal, in general. I put to the vote a proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 122 voted yes. I find that we have adopted a proposal for a national strategy for protection and rescue in emergency situations. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a CITIZER LAW After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the residence and residence of citizens, in principle. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a law on the residence and residence of citizens and we move on to a decision on amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, six voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, nine voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 113 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 98 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, together Zlata Đerić, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic and jointly Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalić and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 108 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 104 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 24th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 102 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 106 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 99 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 96 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 105 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 31st amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting the amendment to Article 15. The bill, submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic, came under Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of the amendment, gave rise to the need for the committee in charge to submit new amendments, which bring the amendment adopted with the text of the draft law. I ask that the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee meet immediately and to submit the necessary amendments, i.e. the report. We'll be back in the O.R. and start working at 12.30 hours, due to the busyness of some MPs after 15.00 hours or already how much. So, the break is from now to 12.30 p.m., but I'm asking you to be in the O.R. just a few minutes before 12.30 p.m., and until then, the committees and professional services have completed their work on the preparation of the amendment.
