ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57687	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record, I find that 81 MPs are present, and please insert identification cards into the electronic voting system to determine how many MPs are present with their identification cards in the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic system, MPs' cards have been identified in the electronic system 86 and 24 other MPs are present in the hall without identification in the electronic system. Notice of the absence of Members of the People's Parliaments I hereby inform that no one has provided information to the National Assembly that they will not attend today's work. Notice of the invitations to the sitting unanimously of Article 90(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, also attends today's session, in addition to the representative of Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of Finance and: Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zoran Ćirović, Assistant Minister of Finance Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Dragana Ratkovic, Head of the Group for Bilateral Financial Relations at the Ministry of Finance, Aleksandar Kostic, Assistant to the Ministry of Finance - Public Debt Management and Dragisa Martinović, adviser to the General Director of the Public Enterprise "Serbia". We continue to work and move on to a search in detail of the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Second item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of the City You have received amendments submitted to the Bill by Members of the People: Together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pjeljić, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Krasic, Milorad Buha, Vladan Jerjemić, Donka Banović, Milica Banović and Milica Voj Milan-Mirić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I ask the National Assembly to inform those invited to the session, which is located in the National Assembly building, to enter the session hall, to attend the debate, or search in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57688	The Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 1 of this proposed law on amendments and amendments to the Law, and it seems to us that the Proposer, and if he had accepted the amendment, would essentially not have changed his negligence, nor would this essentially affect it. However, what raises the question here with this amendment and the addition of this 9th member is indeed a question – so far, citizens' income tax has been released from high school students, or from those of the Home School, from the fees they receive for this purpose. By amending and supplementing the law, they, in one, seem to me, magically deleted from this law. What the amendments and additions of the law establish is that citizens' income tax will now be freed from the members of these study programmes, as you have written here, i.e. high school or police academy. Now we're interested -- what did the promoter want, because in his explanation, he didn't say one word about what would happen to income tax for those who were tax-free, and the students are Internal Affairs High Schools? The government may have made a decision in the meantime that abolished the Central School of Internal Affairs, but if that's the case, then it was really meant for them to tell us and to be one of the reasons why this law is changing in this direction. But there's not a single word here about whether or not we have an internal school or we don't have it anymore. On what basis have the conditions been obtained, and what has made it possible for the students of the Home School to be exempt from taxes for income income, on behalf of the compensation they receive, or from the state, on the basis of that right? For the SRS in general, these changes and additions to the law are really insignificant. They, as we said in the debate in principle, will cause one tax ejaculation, i.e. a reduction in tax revenues, on the one hand, and on the other hand, should be kept in mind that because of the failure of the tax system that you have failed to change and bring to order at a level that would be acceptable, these revenues are still very low in total participation in the tax revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It would really be correct if there were someone from the government, to give us an explanation -- will the children who are going to the Central School of Interior from now on pay taxes on the income of the citizens in the name of the compensation they receive or will still be released? If she's going to be released, she doesn't write any more in these changes and supplements. That right has been denied by these amendments and additions. It would be correct, at the very least, if one of the government's representatives explained to us - why is the change so drastic now, why are they no longer high school students, but people who are in academic studies and why are they not both exempt from the income tax of citizens? I repeat, these are not large amounts. I think it would be correct if a solution had been found to free high school students, as well as students at the Police Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57689	One minute and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move to search for the amendment, which is next in line, to remind and inform the National Assembly that representatives are authorised to search in particular the MPs: for the PUPS parliamentary group – Sinisa Stamenkovic, the MP group Nova Serbia – Srdjan Spasojevic, the LDP parliamentary group – Bojan Djuric, the SPS-JS parliamentary group - Zoran Kasalović, the DSS - Milan Lapčević, the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia – Veroljub Arsic, the SRS parliamentary group – Milorad Buha and the ZES parliamentary group – Branka Ljiljak. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57690	We wanted, first of all, to draw attention to the legislator that one is income, and the other is income, when it comes to income tax for citizens. Maybe this will take a little longer, and it probably takes even more time to figure out what that difference is. In the case of income tax, the citizen is a citizen, but he who pays him some receipts he actually makes payment accounts for efficiency, etc. The only tax on the total income and the taxpayer and the accounting officer is a citizen under certain conditions if its total income during the year is more than some amount. I think there were a million and 500 thousand dinars for last year. Look, this is Article 9. The bill, which reads -- no income tax is paid to citizens on the basis of the income, and it is now stated, I must say, 26 points exist, 26 situations when tax is not paid and citizens are receiving. It begins with the rights to receive under the rights enjoyed by wartime people, and then parental and childcare benefits, compensation for other people's help and care. I purposely potentiate these things. This isn't about actual work, working relationships, it's about exercising some right. So, the citizen is statusual in a situation and this status guarantees him some rights and fulfils the obligations under these rights is on the side of the state or the para-state authorities, because the funds are para-state bodies as well. That's how it all works out to regular number 26. In this group there is also aid for the event of death, aid for the destruction or damage of property, organised social or humanitarian assistance, severances, foster care and support fees for the users of foster families, etc. Then out of pure peace, from the sky and into the ribs, the billmaker puts point 27 in the bill. – the costs of volunteering carried out by a volunteer in accordance with the law governing volunteering. We asked the amendment to delete this "in accordance with the law governing volunteering". If formally-legally observed by the Government with a negative opinion on this amendment, at first sight it is right, because volunteering is only what is regulated by the Voluntary Law. What is added "in accordance with the law" is essentially excess or confirms something. The purpose of our amendment was, above all, to distract you. Why? We have several categories of citizens who are in some practical work, and they are not in a working relationship and can be subject to, why not say, exploitation. We have in our Constitution at the level of constitutional form raised a provision on banning slavery and slavery, but what to say about those citizens who have been working for years in some very strange contractual relationship, so for some time it is a contract of action, and not some inventors, artists, or extremely capable of their work being so significant. Then we have youth and student cooperatives, then we have temporary and occasional employment, then we have a working relationship for a certain time, then we have a working relationship for an indefinite amount of time, so the first day his working relationship grows to indefinite time immediately becomes chief because he's been in some, you know, actual work at some firm. Hundreds of thousands of people, according to official statistics, find themselves in this undefined position, are in fact working, two or three times less paid than a colleague who works at the same place, and is reportedly in working relative to indefinite time or perhaps at a certain time. Do we have the right to just interpret volunteering as what the Voluntary Law says? Is such a law on volunteering a kind of legalization of a state of action that is unacceptable? Can we talk about social policy, and there are places to talk about social policy, if we keep a man in a state of uncertainty where he has to agree to everything and everything, where a young woman has to agree to delay the birth of children in order to maintain a working relationship, because first she is through a youthful cooperative, and temporary and occasional jobs, and volunteering, so pray to God for a certain time, and pray to God for an indefinite period of time, and only then think about whether she is going to give birth to children and form a family. Look at your interviews, what kind of polls are employers looking for new workers? What can we talk about about about the category that passed 45 years and became transition losers because of the successful privatisation that was done in Serbia and they are in different contractual relations, so you have, say, the head of accounting of a large bank that begs God today to find a job, to be a porter at a company. There are two students, a wife in the same position, waiting to fill her years of life to make some minimum pension. Did the Voluntary Law actually legalize a state that is socially unacceptable? Can the volunteering term be interpreted and a little wider? Remember one thing, if you said in article 9, that you are not taxing those receipts that are mentioned, who are you essentially helping? The person with the status or the payer's income? Here are the student and youth cooperatives, though not this member, but there are later some members who refer to it. You're actually helping the organizer of that job, you're helping him, you're not helping the person he's actually working with, you're giving the employer stimulant, and those receipts that this man receives in that semi-slave relationship will still be small, insufficient. The purpose of some tax exemptions and some tax benefits are not for the benefit of a formal person, you legally say is a taxpayer, but are a formal legal income for the payer of that income. It's just amazing that in these conditions you go to this kind of change when everyone allegedly swears that you need as many people as possible to get a job, that I guess as many people as possible are in working relative to indefinite time, because that's the only status guaranteeing employment. Volunteering, hiring through youth and student associations, controversial work contracts, temporary and occasional jobs, work for a certain period of time, these are undefined situations from the perspective of the individual's status, its main goal is to secure a working relationship indefinitely. I guess that's what needs to be provided, I guess that's where some benefits should be given to get as many employers as possible with that category. One other thing, I'm sorry if we have the moral right to criticise this type of employer, entrepreneur or owner of small and medium-sized enterprises, if the state abuses when establishing a working relationship with a suitable unemployed person. If public enterprises abuse it. All our public enterprises of republican importance, the Republic level, have co-operation with youth cooperatives. Look at "Nikola Tesla" Airport. It is precisely known which youth cooperatives engage in what people. The life wish of the unemployed is to engage through a youth cooperative to work at Nicole Tesla Airport. There's no slave relationship. There's an important party book. Right? Well, is it? Everybody knows that. And let's break up more with these games because if you're still playing like this with the status of unemployed people, then you're really opening up a big space for some unforeseen stuff. There's a lot of people who up until a few years ago had as much security as they did in working relationships. A married couple took a living loan, charged for the next 15, 20 years. One or both of them lost their employment, got into some difficult social situation. You know how these bankers, people without a soul, spin over their taximeters. You understand that. I just can't figure it out. Is it possible that everything that's been done in this country has to be in favor of banks? Let's do something for the benefit of the citizens. Why all in favor of banks? It's not every Serb's dream of being a bank clerk. It's not the ultimate dream. Not all of us can be capable of a bank clerk. What do we do to the poor if we have to open 1,200 banks to live well in Serbia? I guess there's something to be produced in Serbia. Whether or not you want to produce something has to be born in Serbia. It's supposed to come down, if nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57691	Nine minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not on Article 2 of the amendment, the People's MP Milorad Buh has submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57692	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, this is about the seventh, except for the law that changes the termological one and the same thing. On the first change, the SRS suggested that this category, which represents a statistical and traffic and commercial category, should be defined by one law. We had the Budget Law, we had the Budget System Act, we had the Tobacco Act, we had the Excise Act, we had this, we had the Next, and so on. In legal normation, there is a rule in legal and technical correction that when a situation like this occurs we change it by one law, we count it all by one member and we say that the rule is introduced. Unfortunately, you don't. You say you're thrifty, you take care of every dinar, etc. This shows you're not taking care of. And in a legal-technical sense, what you're simply putting it together, you're putting it into a number of laws and thus you're collecting the whole process in work, among other things, this Assembly. When we talk about the legal technical characteristics of this category, new categories, consumer price index, we need to look at it in general. What does she really represent? It is a financial category, reflecting certain relations in the transport of goods and services, but above all statistical categories. Why is it important to stress that it is statistical? Because, not because it's published by the Bureau of Statistics, but because it represents a choir of all goods that correspond to the government, and what is not acceptable to the government is cast out. She's an artificial woman. It has been inserted as one corridor in these relations, but from the aspect of the SRS, even economic theorists object to you, ask you to find a certain gymnastics, and above all a fiscal category. Why fiscal? Because it does not have to mean that from that point on, the increase in prices of goods and services on the market will automatically result in an increase in the financial revenues of the taxpayers, i.e. that the fiscal base will be increased. Are those identical terms? They're not identical terms. In practice, we have the next situation. Our prices of goods and services are increasing, profits were frozen in 2009. We had over 10% inflation, and before that inflation, or consumer price index, as you say and how we baptized here, was close to 15%. Now you're saying that in the fifth month it's 13.5%, 13.8%, etc., that due to certain measures in the monetary and financial sphere, and even in the sphere of interest policy, there will be a release of that amount. However, the main problem is that the financial base, i.e. the fiscal base, is not the same as the basis of the consumer price index. We have a situation today that citizens will pay more than on this other basis. For SRS, the reference rate is far more acceptable. She's somewhere at 12% right now, and she's fluctuating. It varies because certain macro-economic data and basics are changed both in the area of trade and in the area of transport and in the area of interest policy, etc. She's thorough. She's the NBS base rate. It, in the opinion and attitude of the SRS, should be the basis on which all fiscal and financial obligations will be accounted. Let's get back to the law now. For the SRS, this is an unacceptable way of changing the law, as the government's obligation to itself says that it is socially responsible. There is a commitment and constitutional obligation, which you have not implemented until the end, which is the application of the members and the basic principle of the constitution to pay taxes and all other obligations towards economic power. Unfortunately, some of the leaders of this government in the last year, two, three have said that our tax system and our fiscal system are unfair. It basically protects the rich on a supply of the poor and that the poor pay in the budget, while the rich remain a ban of taxation. Why isn't it being verbally spoken, why isn't it being translated into laws? For years, the SRS has been saying that monopolies, tycoons, monopolies don't pay, that the gray market pays nothing, and that innocent people pay. Why doesn't that change? Why don't you make the system measures? One strategy for sustainable financial existence and residence, not only in this area, but also in other areas. We have a situation where tax liabilities are in the budget in terms of income and income around 93-94%, and non-tax revenues are only 6-7%. In charge of the economy and the citizens in charge can't settle and settle tax obligations, we need to make that clear. This logic of picking up coercion, etc., must be interrupted. Here I will provide you with certain information that can be found on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, that in 2010, the Tax Administration discovered a tax evasion of 42.5 billion dinars, which at that time represented something close to 8% of total income and budget receipts. In their opinion, about 5% of the total tax revenue and still on the gray market. Meanwhile, the company goes bankrupt or goes to gray markets, etc. In the end, we don't even have what is the basis of tax evasion, and we don't have a way to charge for violations or possibly criminal proceedings to take away what was obtained by a tax offense. The practice is very black, the current government must know that what makes it harmful for Serbian national interests, that our financial and fiscal system is unsustainable and without turning in this policy we will not have the opportunity to get out of the deficit, we will not have the opportunity to make up for what we have in practice now. What is our practice in the field of income? Here's how officially this power has taken over, and that's three and a half years, we have a deficit of over four billion euros. If we add to that the deficit already planned in the 2012 memorandum of a billion and something, we will have over five billion euros in deficits in the budget. Why? Because we don't charge, because our income, our original income, all the other tax-based incomes and all the other fees paid by citizens are small and they can't settle everything this country spends. With five billion euros in four years, it is the worst result of the government in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism and Serbian authorities. For itself, this government says it is socially responsible, but the data I have provided from our practice suggests that this is the socially irresponsible government for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57693	Seven minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57694	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the government's argument is read why it does not accept the amendment, some impression is that, this is the law that was passed in 2006, which was so far in application, simply, just a little bit coordinated, improved, corrected, etc. Otherwise, the law states that it would have been only one attempt to increase the number of persons employed, i.e. the number of unemployed persons, and even certain categories, which are persons who should enjoy certain subsidies, i.e. benefits from employment as well as their employers, are said to be – an employer who is employed indefinitely, a person who is less than 30 years old on the day of completion of a contract of employment and who has been registered as an unemployed person at the National Employment Service, at least three months without interruption, is exempt from paying the billed and suspended income tax for a newly employed person for a period of two years from the day of establishment of a working relationship. And that's just fine. Yes, it was one attempt, I'm not saying that it might have been necessary to extend that list when it comes to subsidies for the year, etc. However, we do not know at all what the effects of the law are, for almost five years now, in application and how much this has affected the reduction of the number of unemployed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and how many employers have freed themselves from paying taxes for the income of citizens and what is the damage to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. However, a new position is now being added in that article, employers who have used or used a relief in paying the income tax on another legal basis, in accordance with the relevant regulation, cannot make the tax relief provided for in this Article for the same persons. And that's fine, but I asked to delete this part because I don't know what other regulation. Can there be two tax exemptions under this same law? Well, it's possible theoretically, but I can't at the same time, because someone who's under 30 can't be over 45 and someone who's disabled is certainly not going to use a facial subsidy under 30 because that subsidy he has is far more suitable and a face older than 45, because it's also far more suitable than this one for these two categories. The question is raised, so in what sense do these subsidies, which are with other regulations, and it is known that this government cannot put anything before the Assembly by special decisions and special regulations, so we have even had that famous case that, according to the Law on Income Tax, the Health Care Act pays taxes even for persons who are on maternity leave, even though they are exempt under other special laws. But that was solved by a sublegal act, one regulation, and after three, four years of fierce criticism, I hear the government finally changed that regulation. However, I still don't know what other legal basis is, and I can only assume that it is the basis for the newly employed persons and those subsidies that the RS government is paying for foreign companies that are opening certain production plants in RS. It is the only other regulation in our legislation, since it is settled in the last contracts, agreements and regulations, this National Assembly does not know about it. Now, if we're looking at it, it's totally fine, there's no need to release anyone from tax to whom you paid for a ten thousand-euro employee. To whom you gave a free location, to whom you gave free connections to electricity, water, sewerage, made roads for him, it doesn't take any more relief to give. But I'm just asking a question from all the people here, does anyone have anyone who doesn't know how to open a factory if they give him 10,000 euros per worker? There isn't or anyone who doesn't care about that at all. Subsidies when you give, give to something that is feasible, and that is what is realistic is a new value, not a new job, a new value, but a product. What is produced, what is done. Why not reward the companies that are coming to open the plant in Serbia with that exports from Serbia? That's where you give them the subsidies. That's where you motivate them to export, to bring in foreign exchanges, to open jobs, to hire people. Here, I see it is now in front of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Agriculture, I'm glad it's here. Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not give up paying subsidies to agricultural producers on a processed area? Give it for a made product, let it be raw, not that someone gets a subsidy does not process the land, not that some retailer rents free of charge from the state land to rent it and collects subsidies again. What's this about? Or is he renting from other agricultural producers to get a certain subsidy again, even if you don't look up to countries in the environment? Look at Croatia, giving subsidies for every can of sardine it exports, the state is giving up, but that's why they have no problem filling that part of the budget because they have employees working in the industry. What about our agricultural industry when we talk about it? PIC, Pogorjevac, the tenth in the old Yugoslavia, Serbia's sixth, what's left of it? "Foot product" in bankruptcy, MiP in bankruptcy, the cattle food factory doesn't work, "Bambi" privatized, what's left of the PIC? Just because all those plants that could get privatized and even out of bankruptcy could work, they stopped working because they didn't have the help of the state. It's all made with an export orientation. Give up more subsidies for new jobs. Bring subsidies to agriculture and business, for what is produced, for what is made and for what is exported. This is how you literally pay someone not to do anything. One more thing, if you had such subsidies, anyone involved in any production, both agricultural and industrial, would have reason to do more, to produce more, to employ more people, to earn more and to fill your budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57695	It's been used six minutes and 30 seconds since the authorized representative's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57696	As with the previous member, the SRS correction goes in terms of far more acceptable variants, and this is the NBS reference rate. We insist, here, this is already the seventh-eightth law we're changing, we insist that it be that category. From the point of view of the SRS, it is far more acceptable because it has far more financial and fiscal elements than the consumer price index. Not to speak now because I, as well as my colleague Krasic, also stressed what the index means, how it is manipulated and what it means to statistically sum up certain data that correspond to the current government. But it's an interesting explanation. You say - the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is the harmonisation of the dinar amounts referred to in Article 21 in point 7. The law on income tax, defined in nominal terms, suggests a consumer price index parameter, which is the basic measure of inflation in the conduct of monetary policy in the Republic of Serbia. I guess that's the NBS reference rate, not the consumer price index. This is how you kill yourself, but this isn't the way to explain yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57697	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57698	This amendment is a good opportunity to say a few words about this change that statistics have been preparing for us for, I think, three years. Since, at the same time as the rise in prices, prices showed little data from the consumer price index. You know, if this static method had been applied since 1993, since 2000, 2001 and 2002, then in general, economic indicators of what was happening with us wouldn't be as black as statistics and some rightly showed them, and so the black results were the basis for some political change. What's this about? In this method, the consumer price index reduced the impact of those prices in the jurisdiction of the country – energy, electricity, impulses, pharmacies. There's more. There are seven groups of prices that the National Bank and the Government negotiate each year. For what? Because of macroeconomic stability. I don't blame it. It's a normal road. The state is obliged to use some parameters in those areas where it regulates those prices. Based on this, the National Bank sees the situation and thus leads macroeconomic policy, and above all, the policy of the dinar course. It's all right. You see, the consumer price index also reduces the number of funders, and thus also the impact of prices that determines the country's growth prices to a small extent. The rate of inflation is virtually reduced. So the inflation rate is dropping. Our statistics have been preparing for several years to move on to this system. We've only been practically since 1 January, but for the last two years, we've had a parallel demonstration and price growth at low and consumer price indices and we've seen what that difference is, how much that difference shows up. In statistics, that's a big difference. The percentages can also be seen to have some differences. But when you look at it over time, that difference in methods is nothing, and we come to this where with a pure one mathematical and statistical method we get indicators of better, if I may say, our life. Here is the saying – our dika called statistics. It's not all that we can do in statistics, but, look, this is one time. However, this creates inconceivable consequences. You see, such a display of price growth in a little over 30-40 years with us, regardless of what methodology Zivkovic used, the former director and the main methodology in our country, has made it possible to demonstrate in a completely different way the value of a good one. Based on this, we have come into a situation that perhaps even with less work, someone has shown much greater value, so it is based on it, and therefore they have created mutual debt-trust relations. We today have official data that the internal debts of legal persons within Serbia are 20 billion euros. That's a terrible amount. So multilateral compensation is impossible. Why? Because it starts and ends with the state. The state is the biggest debtor, but the state is looking for the most, on different grounds. The consumer price index will certainly be good for the citizens in charge. Nobody slows it down. It should also be expected to have a beneficial effect on this difference that exists between importers and exporters, to reduce the antipode. But from the point of view of the total value and the observed state, it creates an abnormal headache. Since 2001, we've had three multilateral compensations clearing up internal debts. Less or more were successful. It's always good when the balances are cleared, so let's be clear. A new starting position is being created, with a much smaller minus or with a much smaller plus, or it doesn't matter, but it goes with clean bills. In this situation, I don't even know who imagined doing it in 2011 which is a crisis year by all parameters. This year will be very difficult. We will end up with negative results this year, regardless of what growth will be of 1.2% of GDP. But all our GDP growth data are -- throw your hand, at half-six to make a deal. They don't have real coverage. They haven't had real coverage in years. They don't have a real cover for 30-40 years. We're only talking about these nominal effects, where inflation may have the most impact on bloating that statement, and we have a real decline in the physical volume of production in all areas. Excuse me, as long as there's a ghastly fall in the real volume of physical production, we're doing negative business. What would you stress the importance of a financial transaction that draws some value? We stress the importance of health services. We have a multiplication of some of the services based on a number of basics that enter the GDP, and we're fitively making a balloon that's getting high. We don't really have the goods. We don't really have a job. Our basic problem is that there is little work in Serbia. That's what our results show. How do we increase the work? How do we increase the volume of goods and services? That's the central question. That's what we need to sort everything out, and then all the financial stuff to point it at. Today we have companies that open up to drink coffee, and there's really nothing to do. We have countless private companies, which are mostly in trade, services, and that I don't order any further. That's our problem. Work needs to be encouraged. It works in a bit of a joke, Mladjan Dinkic gives 10,000 euros for the open job and which one of the factories did he open? Where he'll open the factory, he can only spend money and nothing else. Another thing, since obviously this won't be adopted because this is still some, as you say the euro stat standard, etc. And you have the urge to compare yourself with the EU, wrongly, but come on, you're headed that way, so what can I do to you? Mr. Petrovic, don't look up to Croatia, please. Do not look up to yourself in Croatia, and do not increase the production of sardines, please, because unfortunately, we still do not have any seas under our control.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57699	Seven minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kosreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 6, it is a similar situation as in Articles 4 and 5, which is why I skipped reporting to one of these amendments, with Article 6 providing that non-tax-paying persons, i.e. the employer does not pay taxes for newly employed persons, and they turned 45 years old, so again we have the same restriction, if he used one convenience, etc. We have not established under any other legal act, but under this law, we have come to the conclusion that this law makes it impossible, for the same person twice, to execute the same subsidy, or tax relief. But what bothers a little bit in this whole story is - people from 45 years of age who have lost their jobs are popular in the people's name – losers of transition. You know, they lost their jobs because of companies that were privatized, that went bankrupt. Many had little to do with retirement, so they were able to achieve any working relationship in order to achieve that right of retirement. On the other hand, the state is conducting an extremely repressive policy on the matter and employment, but it is also a wealthy retirement. Now we have a situation, when it comes to retirement, that a person who is 40 years old can't retire if he has less than 59 years of life, so we even went on, this Assembly passed the law and increased that age line to, well, fill the gaps in the budget, so that workers don't retire. What are the profession profiles where someone can have 40 years of employment and less than 59 years of life? The most common are the most difficult occupations, and these are the most common miners. You have a similar situation -- that a person who worked in a mine, a surface spear or anything, already after 20 years of effective labor has broken down health, is already a difficult patient. It is not easy to work with sulphur evaporation, living in a dusty, dirty environment and preserving health. Already after 30 years of working hours, they already have a 40-year retirement condition with benefits, but they can't, there's no 59 years of life. Then our companies, big systems, like "Columra", "Costoc" and so on, can't keep these workers in jobs and in production anymore, and on the other hand they can't hire new ones to replace them. Simply, instead of stimulating employment, you have a situation to stimulate non-employment in those productions, where it owns the state and where workers are not cost, someone earns money for the state. You now have a situation to ensure the continuity of production, to engage youth cooperatives. Who uses it the most? He owns a youth cooperative. Do you know how many workers there are across youth cooperatives? I'm 42 years old, and some of them who work through a youth cooperative are older than me. Just because we're going with tightening the legal rules, and we're not literally looking at all the consequences that are going to happen. So there are no subsidies except in the military, police and mining, which can, without 59 years or 57 years of life, turn 40 years of employment. But it's an important story, when a law is passed that we turn to savings, and on the other hand, we increase the government and open up parallel state bodies. What's this about? I don't think the government will, with these amendments and additions to the law, secure a slightly larger flow of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the debate in principle, I said that every worker does not only fill the tax budget he pays, and when he buys a good, full budget and when he uses services, the full budget when he pays for electricity, water, communals, heating and every policy where employees are stimulated by employment or by some small, small money to achieve some savings in the budget, on the contrary, just reduces the flow of money into the budget and nothing more. That's why I spent a little time criticizing both the Minister and the Government. Serbia cannot develop because we do not have a strategy. We can't develop because our ministers are running around Serbia like geese in the fog and they don't know what they're going to do. There's no serious strategy, whether we're going to be a agricultural country and develop a agricultural industry and a monitoring industry next to it or be an industrial country that we've never been to in our history. I wish we could be, but so far we're not or in the near future we'll be able to. Then let us turn to those things that bring improvement to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not empty stories of a better life, who, with such power, knows when it will be. From all this, the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will not vote to amend and supplement this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57701	Four minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57702	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is always interesting to me when, due to the lack of arguments, when defending an amendment or when that amendment explains or attacks, or the content of the amendment wants to fix the law, but there are no sincere intentions to correct the law, but there is only the intention to demagoguely criticise itself, using terms such as the Ministers of the Republic of Serbia running around Serbia, as the geese in the fog or the ministers of this government do not know how the people live or the ministers of this government are alienated from the citizens, and then the question arises how these people, in fact, see themselves first, and only then how they see the Government of the Republic of Serbia and how they see the ministers. I can only say, well, you know, it seems to me that some opposition leaders are running around Serbia, a bit of a hunger strike, a little order for the US Embassy, a little shake hands with the ambassador, a little bit of standing on stage to watch that American embassy burn, but I don't think it's going to improve the quality of the law, or understand the reasons why it should or shouldn't support such an amendment. I think he certainly has every right to criticise the government, he has the right to criticise both the MPs and the ruling majority, but the arguments, the terminology, and even the terms used, and even those metaphors, are not even a little picturesque. On the other hand, if someone wants to go back to power so badly next year, they will have the opportunity to show their knowledge and convince citizens. (President: National MP, please in accordance with Article 106 on the amendment. I thank you. I've reacted, I don't understand the explanation of this amendment, so I can't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57703	Two minutes and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57704	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear long ago that no funds are being chosen to fill the budget. A series of moves made by the government, which insists that it is socially responsible, have completely counterproductive effects on a better life of citizens. I won't remind you of all those pre-election promises made by this government about social responsibility, but I will remind you of the exposés of the finance minister, or the Prime Minister, of two words spoken in this assembly recently. A better life for all Serbian citizens now and now. The changes to this law show how this life will be better. Then when opposition MPs submit certain amendments that only need a little something to improve the life and condition of young people, then the government refuses, without a valid explanation. I'll remind you that at the end of last week, we discussed the Youth Act, where politics was discussed for young people, how to fix it for young people in this country. The amendment submitted by Mrs. Donka Banovic is just saying this, about increasing this amount of scholarship and credit, in order to slightly improve this state of youth in this difficult time. It seems that the government does not live in real time, lives in some virtual time, promising, lying, misleading, and life in Serbia is getting harder and worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57705	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 71st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 74th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Milorad Buha, Dragan Stevanovic, Vladan Jeremic, Sredo Perić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Rade, Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Natasa Mićić, Bojan Đurić, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popović, Marija Bulgarčić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Kišmarton, Milan Knezić, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatić, Predrag Mijatić, Ljiljan Milajan Milajić, Borić, Bora Milajić, Bora Šilić, Žilić, Žilić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žila. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Judita Popovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Vladan Jeremic has tabled an amendment to Article 21, which refers to heading 41. In the principle debate, we criticised this because we believe that the republican administrative fees, the law that regulate them, were not passed in an adequate way, to the extent that they would fully, entirely, be fair and be correct. On this occasion, we mentioned that some tariff numbers provide for a request for a single solution in the Republic's administrative tax, and then the solution that is obtained for that request is re-paid by a number which is three times larger than the requirement. My friend Buha explained what kind of shop the state does when I apply to the state to give me something. The question is, what do we pay for it as a favor from the state when we apply to the state? Of course, the government's representatives were silent at that point, they didn't say anything. I don't know which minister he was, but it's all the same, so we assume by silence they wanted to let us know that we were wrong. Then we came up with a debate in particular and, let's say, you come here in heading 41 and you see that through heading 41 things can be solved rationally and correctly. I'm not a lawyer, and I don't know what it's called, but look, let's say in heading 40, it stands like this – for a solution to the request for authorisation for issue, etc. So many dinars. So, you don't have a request here, so you have a solution, but you have one tax paid for it. That's one thing. This indicates how superficially this is and how much this is exclusively in the function of filling budget gaps, nor in the previous law, Mr Petrovic, nor in this moment can we recognize the country's definition of taking its tax revenues seriously, as well as in everything else in the country, something you've been doing for 10 years of your European story. Here, I ask you, since when did you get in agriculture the status of preferential beef exports to the EU, since you received one-fifth of exports and preferences to this day, or quotas you are unable to respect. I'm not putting that on your mind. But that illustrates the state's relationship to its affairs and obligations. That's how it was with the law a little while ago, and here we come back to that same story. There's no commitment to work here. Now I'm asking you -- how is it possible that in the state you have a tax that in the last few years I don't know how many years you pay with a thousand or two or three thousand dinars and that the government is now proposing that we pay the same fee for 60 and some thousand dinars? What happened in this country? Has the standard of citizens increased? Do we have the possibility of being so generous to the state? The state brings it back to us through good and service? What's this about? Is there any rational explanation for that? In heading 41, which we are talking about, say, is said: "For a solution required to obtain authorisation for issuing a registration sticker, 70,000, 69,850". That never existed before. I can understand and accept that you've gone from 2,000 to 4,000 -- you don't have money, nothing works, etc. I can understand why you brought it in. I can't justify it. Then in an explanation when we throw it out, you know what the government says? "The Ministry has proposed it." What do we care what the ministry suggested? We're the Assembly. I guess we're determining what the ministry is going to do and what regulations and laws the ministry is going to rule and how this country is going to function. They say - the ministry has proposed. They could've offered 200 grand, and 500 grand, and someone would've been there, and not taking care of why he was raising his hand. And then what? We're getting into a situation where you can't charge for it. You have a regulation that is in practice completely inadmissible. Such fees, whoever they're referring to, are really pointless and unacceptable, in this amount and this amount. But that's the thing where in the country from today to tomorrow everything is solved. In a country not dedicated to the country's projection over the next three or five years, but from the election cycle to the election cycle. So today we will rule over what will ensure that we function until the elections, which we will not anger the citizens or make them angry, but on the other hand, we will benefit a little more from, or finance at our disposal. You can't miss the Law on Income Taxes of Citizens to patch up republican administrative fees. Because, by law on income taxes, the citizens we talked about a little while ago, nothing is really going to change. Even, we say -- there will be less revenue in the budget, but it's not a huge budget deficit. Because that tax doesn't largely participate in incomes. But you can't make up for it. By the way, you sit well in that government, as you promised in 2008 before the elections and in the election campaign, you promised to reform, change, standard, quality of life, so you analyze the vertical, horizontal, this or that tax justice, so you see where the problems are, what the problems are, so one comprehensive way to solve this. Not like this -- ad hoc, today 2,000, tomorrow 69,000. And you're asking someone to take you seriously. That someone in the state of Serbia may take you seriously or that someone on the side of you, outside the borders of this country, will take you seriously. This is what people who come here pay for. Maybe they chose to come here, live, work and invest. So they wonder, is this a predictable tax system? What can they expect after the next changes in the republican administrative taxis? What can expect them at the beginning of next year, which in fiscal terms will be harder than this one? Loaded with interest, debt burden, tax and election campaign, etc., etc. We deal with republican administrative fees. We have just finished the debate on the law – 160 and some different tax bases in Serbia on which salaries are paid, and therefore the tax on earnings is calculated. That's what no one's into in this country. Nobody cares about that. For the same business in both sectors, two different sectors in this country, and profits vary dramatically, and taxes vary, so you, Minister, are obliged to bring such republican administrative fees. It is not a picture of a serious state and Serbia in the election that needs to be cleared up. To put an end to this forest and this chaos. Political and economic chaos. You have no arguments to convince anyone. We said in the principle debate – no local management is playing this unseriously with administrative fees for services provided by local self-government. Such a luxury is at least the government of the Republic of Serbia to which these local self-governments should be viewed. What kind of message are you sending? Is this about the state? Care for the payment opportunities of those who participate in the business life and even those who live here? Did this go through any serious analysis? It really isn't. The SRS can't support this. We are not unreasonable, and we believe that the state of power which imposes its laws or some of the new services it provides must be charged. But it all has to be measured. As long as you're not ready to give up waste on one side, this won't be able to patch you up. The state's gonna be in trouble. This is not the way for a country's finance and fiscal policy to be settled. The fish are cleaned from the head, not the tail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57707	Nine minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 23rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Trivan. This amendment was adopted by the Government and the Financial Committee and the Legislative Committee that it was in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system that became an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The 28th amendment was also submitted by Parliament member Jelena Trivan. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Micic, Bojan Đuric, Judita Popovic and Marija Bulgarcic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group together submitted to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57708	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, section 33. The amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Taxes regulates the introduction of new tariffs, namely tariffs in Tariff No 69 – for a solution to the requirement to issue solutions for the placing on the market of plant protection products of 80,000 and for a solution for the entry into the register of land-eating and land-mining products in the register of plant-eating products, land-mining agents 45,000. It states in its explanation that the amendment is not accepted because the resolution ministry has proposed these fees to carry out certain professional activities in order to issue an appropriate solution, etc. But, Mr. Minister, that's not what the applicant pays. Pays the one who uses the service, the one who buys the funds, the one who uses the funds. That's the agricultural producer. You know that well. Those who defend this government and don't understand the reasons for the amendments, I don't mind, I don't understand the reasons why some laws are passed, why some things in the state are done wrong. We cleared up, so Serbia in its history was a agricultural, agrarian country. We've cleared up that we don't have any more agricultural industries or that she's negligiblely small. We concluded that exports of real agricultural finished products are almost gone. Exports of wheat or flour, exports of corn, exports of fresh meat. It's all raw materials or semi-species, but there's no real product. I remember the factories that ran the fourth shift so they could justify their export arrangements. They had no economic account to export at the price paid to them by the exporter, but they had a receipt, due to state subsidies for each of their products. This was also the situation with the meat industry Pogorec, the situation was also with the fruit product of Povorec. Someone's gonna say, I believe there's been a lot of these -- well, I know, but why should we pay some owner if he's not worth exporting? That can be said by someone who doesn't understand himself in some areas. To be clear, I don't mind that Serbia is producing refrigerators and freezers and electric stoves and televisions and cars, but if someone is going to tell me that, say, a slaughterhouse that only employs 200 workers, I can tell them that they have no idea what they're talking about. He doesn't hire 200, he employs 5,000 people. Every tractor with the owner who wants to work will be in the field. Every barn will count on it to load cattle, whether it's big or small. Any farmer who has no stables will count on him to sow corn and wheat because there will be demand for that food, not only for human consumption and exports, but also for the production of tow cattle, in order to finally produce something and export it from the ground. We can't be ourselves enough. We need to increase the number of employees, reduce the pressure on the budget, cut credits with banks. We don't have any big financial support, we have ourselves, and we have to turn to what can give us, as much as possible, a certain profit, and for ten years, it's all about destroying it. Here you are, Mr. Minister, coming from the city where these funds were produced, so they are now manufactured. Are plant-nutrient products produced? Does anyone else in Serbia produce that? Are there any azotars in Serbia? They're gone. They're closed, sold. What's the problem? You said it would be cheaper from the imports. I remember that perfectly. Yeah, he will, but he can't be a monopoly. It must not be a condition of 100,000 tonnes, for example for the sake of artificial fertilizer of a species in order to get permission to import these goods, because four or five can do so, it must provide storage capacity. If it's four or five, isn't it a monopoly? Do a liberalisation. At least let the tow truck in, let him in. No, I'm gonna mind Colette and the team around them, maybe Miskovic, I don't know who. But it is obvious that when you liberalise imports of plant protection and nutrition products, I am absolutely certain that it will be much cheaper agricultural production, which gives us hope that our product will be competitive on the outside market and that it can be sold. Like this, how do you think it's gonna be the cheapest when we've even introduced 37 dinar excises for regular D2? Not for those cars that go down the road, so we say they're wasting roads, but also tractors that are in the fields. Does the state have a serious strategy to stimulate agricultural production, in the sense that before he throws out the first grain of wheat, he knows what the price will be, at what cost the state will guarantee. Before he starts building a farm and borrowing loans, he knows what the price will be for him when he sells cattle. There are minimums below which even the strongest agricultural countries can't take care of that if a farmer can't make a profit, he can't have any losses. If the state dares to do so, the roadblocks are much more severe for much less money than in Serbia. Just remember France and the milk crisis there. Because every serious state takes care of its strategic interests, whether in the EU or anywhere else in the world. Here, Russia. They didn't have enough wheat for themselves, stopped the export, made a circus on the world market. Serbia sold cheaply, then imported, after that blockade, we imported wheat because we don't have a strategy. We need a strategy for subsidies, not per hectare, but per product, per kilogram of wheat, per kilogram of corn, per piece of exported goods, and everything in this series has to be burdened with both various monopolies and various fiscal duties, so that we can hire people. When you hire people, then don't worry about taxes, they'll have someone to pay them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57709	It has been used for three minutes since the parliamentary group's time and the full time of the authorised representative has been used. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57710	Thank you very much. No one's happy when taxes are up. Of course, I'll talk about what's in the domain of the laws proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture. It is true that these two items have been increased taxes, but it is a one-time fee, so it is not about the fees that citizens give in certain procedures that are repeated. Therefore, it is a solution for the placing on the market of plant protection products and for the entry into the register of plant and land-mining agents. So, business entities that acquire licences, in fact, to deal with this thing, when they apply for a particular product and want to get the right to participate in the domestic market, pay these taxes and they are not small, but given the size of the traffic does not significantly affect the costs themselves and what Mr. MP said, that they burden consumers, or farmers. I don't want to pollute too much, but just a few answers. We didn't import wheat between the last harvest and the harvest that's now beginning. We've exported, if not historically maximum, but we've exported a lot more than the balances anticipated. That's why we banned the export of wheat. We've exported 650,000 tons. I agree with you that it is not good to export wheat, but it is good to export wheat products, but it is good to export and wheat, when the situation is already like this and it is good that manufacturers benefit from it. I think we have very serious indications that they will invest in agricultural processing facilities and that very serious quantities of corn will already be converted into starch during the season that is coming there beyond this season and that Serbia will have a very significant export potential. Also, I think there's some serious investment going on in the mines and in the production of artificial fertilizer, I mean phosphate mines. This is all good news for our country's economy, for farmers because in strategic areas we will have in the next two or three years a completely different situation than we have today. Finally, I would like to say that the first three months of 2011 exports increased exports of agricultural products, exports of the food industry increased by 45% compared to the first three months of 2010. We wait now, I hope by July 20th we have statistics for the second quarter, so for the whole first term. But it is obvious that the trend in export growth is good news in Serbia's economic life. I'll remind you that in 2010, we had a record export of agriculture and a two-billion-dollar food industry and 200 million dollars. With all the difficulties that agricultural producers have above all, with a lot of serious issues that we need to resolve on the market, which I completely agree with. I think this year is quite certain on the threshold of being, as far as agriculture and the food industry are concerned, better than in 2010. To prepare very seriously the exporters for a performance on the customs union market, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, where six companies that manufacture and process meat and six companies that produce or process milk were granted export licences. To increase exports to the EU, to increase exports to CEFTE countries, and I think we will have quite good encouraging results, as regards agriculture and the food industry this year, and to take serious strategic action. I think I can be expected in 2012. We'll get ready in second-hand this year. We're going to get ready first of all when it comes to irrigation and we're going to have a broad and serious debate about this thing. We'll make decisions. We're going to have a debate on next year's budget, and I also think we have serious prospects for the funds of international financial institutions. When these basic things, I mean improving the work of our institutes that have very serious references to seed production in different cultures. When it comes to the opening of new facilities for the production of artificial fertilisers and the third pillar is, of course, irrigation. I think Serbia can take advantage of its big chance in agriculture and the food industry. This opportunity is certainly reflected in the fact that the price of food is globally, so in the world in the last 12 months it has increased 38% and that we are all together, and above all two million people in our country dealing with agriculture, we have one big chance and I agree with everyone who stands at the point that we should not miss that chance. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, I'm standing here very tight in a position where I will fight my strength to take this opportunity together.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57711	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. National MP Zoran Krasic, then MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57712	I must at first draw attention to the fact that we are on the subject of a republican administrative fee. Just to remind the public, we're talking about tax stamps. We're talking about tax stamps, that's how it came to be. When a man generalises with his country, he submits a request, glues a tax mark, a dinar two-three. Why was there a tax stamp? For seriousness. That the request is serious. Why? Because whoever signed it has separated two dinars from obtaining that official tax mark and is entering the official procedure, mainly administrative procedure. Right? At its own cost, that was symbolic. Why was it symbolic? To allow every citizen, every legal person, in those situations where he wants to exercise a right or thinks he is under threat to a right, so to protect himself, he informs the state authority that the paper is an official and serious document. And the tax stamps were in traffic until a few years ago. When did the tax stamps get kicked out? The moment the state made the decision to earn on the republican administrative fees. Now it's a nightmare for some to provide for tax stamps. But there's no more taxes, there's no more bills. As soon as the check came in, the money went up, the amount went up. Now the jury money goes for everything and everything. So the first metal problem is that tax marks can't be a significant source of budget funds. The next very important thing, the republican administrative fee at its own cost does not correspond to the price of the administrative worker's work. So the administration service doesn't cost as much as the tax stamp, or that amount of payment. Why? So unless there's one request over the year, then it turns out that those people who work on those cases should die hungry because they don't earn their salary. It's not true, their salary is secured in the budget, so the salary is not dependent on taxis, tax stamps. This may seem a little funny, but it's true. Why is it true? Something went wrong in the head, not now, long ago in the head, that republican administrative fees could be a significant source of revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that's the first mistake. All those who justify this high are the republican administrative taxis by talking about the price of the service, then the office, then the paper, then the computer, then the phone, then the records, so the request with the files to go through three or four hands, etc., etc., these are simple fairy tales. We now come to this Article 33 relating to plant protection funds and the appropriate solutions for these means to be registered and put on the market because without that solution, it is impossible for it to go into legal traffic. You see, under the current law, for those two items the amount is 13 990. What did the promoter suggest? That these amounts increase to 80,000 and to 45,000. Now those of you who have digitrons, you have these lapa-tapa computers type into them and see how much that's a percent increase. This exceeds all possible inflation rates in our country, so no matter what bill you take, the consumer price index and prices rise to a little bit, etc. So, the dwarves are set. Why the dwarves? Well, he needs state money, this country has only solved one problem, there's no money. You know, kids, we've solved one problem, which is Dad's problem, he doesn't have money. He says 50% of you are going on vacation and 100% you're not going because there's no money. And in order to secure money and everything about these taxis, it's all over to someone extreme and that's the end of us. For the manufacturers of these pesticides, it's the cost of doing business, 80,000, it's probably some big cost to them, but it's a grain compared to when it's overrun as a cost in the price of all their products later. We suggested that what was point 1 be 4000 and what was point 2 to be 2000. Of course, the amendment cannot pass, because we suggest a reduction in the existing solution. Now you're drawing conclusions about this tax won't be the production of vancides, it's not true, it can be someone talking fairy tales now, but here in the foundation is the wrong approach. All these republican administrative fees should be treated as tax marks. Literally said as tax marks, because if it becomes such a large amount in the structure of the budget it is also negligible and it has to be said, that someone does not think to provide 50% of the budget, far away, no, not provided. But for the physical faces of some even salesmen here, some tariff numbers are really big. Especially for those who are located as south of Belgrade as far down as possible, where you yourself know what the average incomes are, not to speak now, where it takes a huge savings to register a car, savings. Family needs to save to register a car. There are some more mistakes, I don't want to go to the small intestines now, so I don't devalue this. Let's talk about this law, like a tax code. If we bring him down to tax stamps, then we'll solve all the problems. To know that the amount of these taxis should be as low as possible and so that every citizen can be made available and addressed by the authority. That's the problem with the court cabs, too, you know. There's an enormous amount of taxis in a court cab, so there's still got to be paid before something ends there, and that's how with that amount, we're distracting citizens from the competent authorities, courts and authorities of the administration. It is not good when citizens are forced and partially and therefore have to take justice into their own hands. The worst thing is when justice is taken into its own hands, because then there is no limit. Then that kind of self-help and necessary defense can cross every possible limit. Let's not by any law feed it and contribute that kind of self-help that loses its limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57713	Five minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57714	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Of course, LDP MPs also submitted an amendment to this article with the requirement to virtually delete, i.e. to issue administrative fees for these two items, i.e. for plant protection and plant and land-mining products, remain at the level that so far existed. Mr Krasic here is absolutely right, not from the law itself, nor from the reasons that are mentioned as the reason why our amendments are being rejected, it is not clear why the procedure has become more complicated, or why the costs of the work of the state authorities in issuing these certificates, i.e. the solutions for placing on the market, have become so much larger that it proposes an increase in taxis in one case already three times, in the other five or six times, or 45 thousand dinars and almost 90,000 dinars. Along the way, that amount of 89 or 90 thousand dinars, I believe, is one of the largest amounts of the Republic's administrative fee under this law. It is approximately that much tax to be paid in case of the expansion of mining spears, or fields for exploitation. I really don't see that these two situations are comparable at all in any way. In terms of complexity, or as you say in one place, in an explanation for which you reject one of our other amendments, this complex and multidisciplinary approach. On the other hand, if you want to shoot or focus on the economic power of the law enforcement officer, there is also no valid reason. I also don't think this approach is good, it's generally not good. Therefore, reasons for the collection of republican taxis cannot be based on the fact that each ministry has made an analysis within its portfolio and the Ministry of Finance sent requests. This is legitimate from either a professional or bureaucratic level, but there is therefore a finance minister, who is mostly a politician as in any serious country, and a prime minister or prime minister who is without exception a politician, and he takes care that both tax policy and tax policy and fiscal policy will be defined in general. With such a structure of public income, absolutely everyone in this country believes that the ministries create requirements, in that they place taxis in relation to the funds they need to cover their regular, administrative and all other costs. Ministry and Ministry of Finance experts from your ministry, Mr Petrovic, and everyone else doesn't have to worry about that. You've been dealing with politics for a very long time, and you know that these things determine the view of public opinion towards politicians, according to the government, that all those citizens who were thrilled with the success of Wimbledon yesterday, this morning when they submitted some request to the authorities of the state administration, forgot that great success, if they're unhappy with the level of tax, and they're mostly dissatisfied. And that it will eventually produce consequences that, believe me, none of us want. That it will create much greater space for populist parties, some new ideas on three dinar bread, than for those parties that are pro-European and which such laws must also change in line with the needs of harmonisation of our legislation with EU rules. You're right when you say that the end-user's one-time payment of this kind of charge for these funds won't be too burdensome. It probably won't lead to an increase in price compared to the current price. If we look at the investment potential, the business climate of this country will cause enormous damage. The World Bank of all other institutions involved in this work do not make as precise calculations as it will eventually collect some plant protection product. The number of procedures, the number of days needed to satisfy a particular procedure, count the period of time it takes to get a certain permit. It would be good, I don't think we've got that in any way in this debate as information, what are the net effects of this law? How much higher is budget revenue, and how much do you expect higher budget revenue in the second half of the year? This law will apply for a little less than six months. How it will affect the functioning of the budget. Mr Petrovic mentioned at one point that preparations for the adoption of the budget or for the preparation of the budget for next year are already beginning. They should, however, be almost in the final phase under the Budget System Act. It would be good to talk about it from the point of view of agriculture and from the aspect of this law. It's not good for the state to operate in many areas. That's why there are problems with Galenika, the functioning of the Pension Fund, the Health Insurance Fund. That approach is really completely wrong. Can't the state and its, let's say, parastate bodies, like these funds, predefinate their costs and have a certain number of employees, program the costs of getting a vehicle, all other costs, and then set up a definition for citizens. That's the reason for many problems in this country. If this approach were to be abandoned, let's say we could finally put in place a rule that the prescription is absolutely identical in both the state and private sectors. Since our state has the ambition to predetermined number of state pharmacies funding every year practically through the Health Insurance Fund, then there is nothing left for citizens, or for those involved in the business in the private market. When you hold that system for 20 years, then Galenika happens, and especially if in the meantime Galenika, by state decision, starts to take over its suppliers or its partners on the market, those who need to be distributors of its products. So this debate is about to end, maybe we should reroute it in another direction, or start talking about some specific numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57715	Six minutes used by the MP's group. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57716	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, also submitted an amendment to article 33. It is very interesting that all practically parliamentary groups of opposition pointed to the exact same problem. It is likely that the government is absolutely not aware of this kind of suggestion, of such an unscrupulous increase in taxi prices. We've been a little bit in the essence of some compromise and with our amendment we've been looking for not erasing, but to eventually make a certain increase, but not to take this kind of numbers. So in Article 33(2), the number "80,000" is replaced by "40,000", and in Article 33, paragraph 3 "45,000" is replaced by "20,000". The explanation of this amendment, "we respect that reasoning of the legislator, heading 69, A tariffs, however, we believe that the increase in the amount of the prescribed tariff from 13.990 dinars to 80,000 dinars, or from 13.990 dinars to 45,000 dinars, is indeed excessive, over every measure. From this amendment, we propose the amounts of value tariffs which are much more appropriate to the situation in which our economy is located." So we offered a certain compromise. Of course, this amendment isn't this kind of suggestion, it didn't go to the government. In principle, the NS highlighted a number of problems that this law is practically about taxes. Mr. Minister, Mr. Djelic was last time, where you were sitting. We've shown that this is not the only increase that happens in a succession, we practically have from month to month, day to day different increases, you know, because you're coming from that branch, practically a year and a few days ago, the court fees are 50% increased, you know how many problems these problems are in the functioning of the judiciary, and you know that natural persons and legal persons are very difficult to deal with these taxes, since executions are in a catastrophic state, regardless of the change in the law of enforcement. All this, very, very, very badly affects the situation and certain legal status of Serbian citizens. When we talk about other gatherings a month ago, perhaps 15 days ago, Minister Suleiman Ugljanin explained that excises, so great excises, are the reason for the practical, social moment, the charge of the budget. The man openly admitted all that. When we look at this kind of increase, it's really not good for the citizens of Serbia, it's amazing that to this extent, as my predecessors have said, not respecting the rate of inflation, but it's just cutting itself so categorically, so it's 50%, 60%, 70%, it goes on forever. I don't get it, I'm not an economist, so I don't get it, here's the fifth year that I've never been an MP here before, the law to reduce anything, to do anything in the spirit of anything. You know, it can only happen here that the course of the euro is increasing, so it only shrinks, but it's probably some things that are manipulative and where there are some huge differences and where citizens can't even figure out how it's possible that gas, for example, this much or oil jumps, that the course falls, and that when the course of the euro falls we don't have in any situation a reduction, for example. fuel, because we give the Excise Act right now, so let's make one phenomenal nivelation. So there is nothing to do with any tax cuts, or any reductions that would be in the interest of Serbian citizens. You know that, when you happen to talk some time about not increasing pensions or salaries, 2, 3, 4%, and here are the 50 and 100% increases, then permanently in several situations five, 10, 15 governments, the IMF, the economic institutions of this country, talk about that approval of 2, 3, 4%. It is not clear to me whether someone from the government to present to the IMF what kind of increases are being made here and that Serbian citizens absolutely cannot withstand such increases, say, 3-4% pensioners or workers, people who are at the budget of 2, 3, 4%, which is day and night, and this is a great success, and then we do these increases and we totally minimize any salary increases, we practically get into the heart of every man in this country, we suck blood, and we take off the skin of Serbian citizens. I mean, not us, but the government that is current and the government policy, I'm telling you, I'm thinking of Parliament, which is often not clear to citizens, but they all say that you all make laws there. No, Serbian citizens should know that the ruling coalition is passing such laws, and that the opposition is against such brutal increases in all segments of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57717	Five minutes and 55 seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word in the debate on the amendment to Article 33? Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57718	Once again, what I said before, I apologize for not sounding so good. The ministry's professional services, proposing such a change, had in mind the costs needed to get a new preparation into the market. I'm going to say once again that it's a one-time payment, as taxes are paid, when new medicines or health protection funds are entered and placed on the market, so there's also a procedure here that, of course, has its own specificities, has its own costs, and that's one side of the thing. The second is that it is indeed a measure that is reflected in the economic strength of the payer of this administrative fee. I want, above all, to inform the public that, by taking a step by step towards the EU, we are expanding the circle of inspection supervision that I am talking about in the phytosanitary area on the one hand, because these taxes apply to this area, but also to the veterinary area, it is necessary to meet all the necessary standards that are prescribed, above all to the Food Safety Act, for the protection of our population. It is not only an EU issue or even a major issue of the EU, but also the protection of consumer security, but also the security of our economic interests. It is enough that in one or two shipments, certain harmful substances are found in products that are extremely important to us and that we are at risk of getting a ban on the external trade of such products. In order to warn such difficult and dangerous things, it is necessary that we do so from month to month, to increase the number of controls and we increase the number of controls. You've seen, on the other hand, that we've increased the number of preventive controls in buying places and buying raspberries, and here we are now buying wheat. This is not our own income from the Ministry of Agriculture, so this tax is the general income of the budget, but I just want us all to have a sense together that there are certain costs that the state must have to bear to provide both the economic framework and the framework for the preservation of the security of the transport of elementary life supplies. This is a serious increase, but the increase that is paid once, the serious increase in taxes, but the tax paid by producers and traders, which have a serious economic power and I think this is a measure that is not unfair, and that all together it is necessary to bear the burden of the costs that the state has, in proportion to its economic powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57719	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57720	Respecting some things about the needs of the state, I can agree with the minister, but I would really like to hold back on this amendment a little bit, regardless of these increases. The new Serbia, practically by its proposal, has accepted an increase of 60, 70%, if these are needs. But, Minister, is it normal to increase from 13.990 to 80,000? That's 600% higher and rising from 13.990 to 45,000, which is almost 300%. So, the state has functioned so far with these taxes. If it increases something 60, 70% which is wrong with the inflation rate, our proposal is practically in that direction we know you won't accept to delete this and that's why we went to meet some kind of proposal. I really don't understand how the state has functioned so far with everything justifiable that you said we should join the EU, the state has certain needs, etc. In particular, Minister, since you haven't been in the debate in principle, I really expect you to have an amendment where you might accept and that you will later intervene, I don't know if you know that the tax for interpreting the law from 1,000 dinars has been increased to 10,000? Come on, if these are the needs of some day-to-day work, etc., but if something needs to be interpreted and sent out, the legal person's tax has been raised from 1,070 dinars to 10,000th is really not common. Look, it's about interpreting the law, if the law is completely clear, there's no reason to interpret it, if there's a certain failure, everyone here who makes the laws knows that sometimes something can be clear. Come on, at least cancel that tax, because it's real, it's not transparent at all, and it's not right for the interpretation of the law to be taxed at 10,000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57721	Two minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. Is there anyone else answering for the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Krasic? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57722	Mr. Minister, as the debate moves away and as we listen to these comments, what the SRS is talking about is that it has really not been seriously approached either by analysis or by changes, by additions, however you will, these republican administrative taxis. We're coming up with a member who, by what is essentially proposed by the SRS, is just relying on it or you've given the creamworth for something like that through your story a few minutes ago. You say, Mr. Minister, that you're increasing control, that it's very important that in a contingent, in one, another or third, you don't find one thing that's bad because of our export definitions, which is why you're obliged and obliged to promote the fitness sanitary and other control, which refers to external trade. Now watch out, with all your commitment to improve our export of agricultural products, see what you have suggested - a request for food safety control in external trade - 410 dinars. You've raised that tax, I suppose, for this index, whether for inflation or what the government has defined itself to, and this suggests for the SRS that it really didn't seriously interpret the meaning and role of individual taxis that citizens, or potential exporters, should pay. The SRS has proposed that this request and this tax be increased. Those who are able to deal with external trade exports, or foreign trade, or to export our food and our products, think that it is really not much for them to pay 2000 dinars for such a single request. Here we return to the story of what is paid and the request to be submitted and the solution that is obtained. But this really represents one good basis for the story I'm trying to tell you. So those who are able to export and who today have such a possibility, for them 410 dinars, you have to admit, represent nothing. That's what the state promotes and represents as unserious. It is not a mandatory task for the state to just charge its service, but for you as a minister and competent in the state to have enough mechanisms and arguments in your hand to control these inspections, so that whoever you charge 2000 dinars some solution indeed that inspection, fitness sanitary or whatever it is you want to do, must have an adequate service to provide and his job must work properly. What is the obligation of one who for 410 dinars has to pay for a favor and do it? How will they relate to that? It won't apply at all. That's why we're asking for a serious and studio approach. So that we're not populists, as representatives of the government, here we are, asking for this tax to increase. I deeply believe that if agricultural matters are the way you just introduced them, this will not be unacceptable for you. If everything grows, if we export everything, our potentials are like this or like that, then for one exporter, who exports 200, 300 or 500 tons of raspberries, wheat, it doesn't matter what, 2,000 dinars really don't represent much. Don't, Minister, do us a favor to our agricultural producers and exporters by charging them an administrative fee in one pointless amount, but, Mr. Minister, guaranteeing a high-quality purchase price for the raspberries, guaranteeing a high-quality ransom price for cherry, ransom price for wheat, corn, etc. etc. That's what you have to do. Ensure them adequate subsidies, give them adequate subsidies, that the structure of these subsidies is what they need, that the moment of payment of these subsidies is what they should be. This is what is expected of the state, not to meet them by one way that administrative fees will be meaningless, and another by passing the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Tax Income of Citizens, where we say they are insignificant, and then we present them as a subsidy in agriculture. That really promotes this country as a non-serious one. The SRS cannot agree with you when you say – historical record exports. You did make it perhaps compared to the years before these record exports to the agriculture sector, but, Mr Krasic said earlier, you did not increase the volume of production. Mr. Petrovic, you were lucky that the prices on the product markets that you did the dominantly export went to heaven. Compared to the same period last year, 20.30 to 40% of prices rose. You performed that statistical acrobatic, and that's why you presented the external trade balance as it is. That gave you an argument to present agricultural production and export capacity in the last year as it is. According to official statistics, 250,000 hectares in this country have been unprocessed. You're talking about irrigation, that's good. The community I come from, Surdulica, can really recognize his interest in all of that. There's one system that should be put into operation, and if there's hearing and reason in the government, it's going to be seen. But you, Mr. Minister, don't want to talk about the draining and the problems we have in Banat. None of the government's representatives opened and raised their voice on water and soaked land in Banat. With how much less worked area for production and corn and wheat you enter this year than you entered last year? Tell me, Minister, why was something exported that was in the ban regime? Why did we export wheat and not have to? Why was wheat exported to the volume and quantity in which it did not need to last year? That's what you just said, right? We pulled something, 650 thousand tons. That's not how much of a plan it was planned to take off. Then we questioned our own market. Then by the government's measures, by reacting to the baker's industry and the production of bread, you tried to turn out to be great, the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's absurds and non-sesis and it's something that can't happen, if you want to strategically design stable exports, stable production, etc. So this is an amendment that we wanted to show that, unlike the government, we may have taken this seriously and we have the courage to say, yes, this needs to be charged more. Do not take care of agricultural producers by objectively charging them with a small amount of money, and on the other hand, those who produce should shake at both ransom prices and on the payment of these and on subsidies and on everything else. We don't think this is serious. Now, whether you want to accept it or not, it's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57723	Seven minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a minister, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57724	We have a different political approach to this thing. I said a little bit, where there's one-time giving and where it doesn't represent a huge burden on the one who pays the tax, those fees have been increased very much. That's what we talked about for a while. This is about a large number of demands. So every time something should be exported, you have to pay a tax. The definition of the ministry and the government is that the increase is determined in that area in order to preserve the value of the money. So what's less inflation, that's what increases are. It's our political position. I appreciate that you have another view of that thing. We think that this way we will achieve the best possible effect. There was no illegal export of wheat, more wheat was exported than planned, but from the moment the government decided to ban the export of wheat did not even come out of the country. On the other hand, we allowed the export of flour so that the mill industry wouldn't suffer any damage, since it had arranged jobs and proved that we had maintained the balance. We made a check on the reserves in early June. They were a little over 300 thousand tons. After that, we decided to suspend the ban on exports of wheat, because the domestic market is not at risk. Of course, I fully appreciate that there are different views on whether we have taken good measures or not. I want to repeat, I am fully convinced that setting the maximum price for "Sava" bread, so for this bread that is cheapest, has fulfilled its role. That restriction, or that measure, is still in effect today. Apparently, there's a lot of money on bread, and at that price of 54, 22 dinars, there's a lot of money in retail. The price of flour fell, the price of wheat fell, and as you can see some of the producers did not lower the price of bread. Again others are, which is a matter of their business decisions and that, again, is not a matter of some administrative further consideration. I think, therefore, that with the ban on exporting wheat, with the authorisation of exporting flour, by maximising the price of bread, we have fully stabilised the market for this basic supply of life. I think it was a good message for other basic life supplies, too. As you can see, somewhere from March of the month inflation has been completely stabilized. Some producers raise the price by some percentages of some basic life supplies, but other producers lower prices for the same foods. So we're not going into anyone's business policy. I want to send both producers and processors one message. Anyone who has any business problems stemming from inefficientness, we are ready to talk about it and find a way to remove these inefficientities from business, not because we have a desire to interfere in any business, but because it is a national interest to process basic agricultural products and basic food manufacturers as efficiently and as best as possible, because it is the only way to have more quality and cheaper products. So, with respect to different positions, we're going to stay in this position that we now have for these reasons that I've just presented.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57725	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57726	Mr Vladan Jeremic has rightly corrected and reduced the republican administrative fees in article 38, heading 79. The essence comes from your argument that you gave in the light of this bill, where you say that the Republic's administrative fees are public revenue which the Republic charges as compensation for a specific service provided by its authorities to natural persons and economic operators on their request. If we analyze this definition of a Republic administration tax a little bit and everything that you have stated by explaining the essence and legal essence of the republican administrative tax, then we see your inconsistency, inconsistencies in all the provisions that you have proposed here. Why? If this is about concrete work, then we need to have a calculation of this work, we need to know what in a specific case means by implementing administrative procedure, because this is about administrative procedure, whether it's about more than a number of minutes, hours, the complexity of work, other conditions, the character of administrative procedure, the kind of administrative procedure being conducted, etc. Do we have those calculations? We don't. This is where you put the proposal you received from the ministries in the provisions of the law, and you say, "on request." What's the request? The request is a wish, an interest of an interested person, a natural or legal person, to carry out a certain administrative procedure and a certain legal act following an administrative procedure, thus ending the administrative procedure with a solution, conclusion, confirmation, etc. You say you pay here on request. Is the request legal? It represents one legal act, but the administrative procedure is yet to be carried out on the basis of a request. We do not know what will be at the end of the administrative procedure, whether the solution or the conclusion of the suspension, the rejection of the proceedings, etc. You don't pay on request, there's no concrete work. The office's own request has to be accepted and moved on to the administrative procedure. There's an administrative procedure going on right now. What's the point? The point is to say, in the same tariff number, on request, then to issue a solution, to issue a conviction, to issue a certificate, etc. In fact, you charge the Republic's administrative fee twice. In particular, you said this: "For a mandatory licence application of 15,000 dinars." "For a request for an extension of the mandatory licence of 18,000 dinars." When you carried out the administrative procedure, you brought a solution or a legal act to determine a certain right or obligation, in this case it is a mandatory licence, you ended it all with one legal act and you charged an administrative fee of 15,000 dinars, but you also charged on request. So, in this case, the actual work was in a certain number of minutes, hours, or some time period of work of an administrative worker, you issued an administrative act and charged. In the second case, the following point is immediately: "for a request for an extension of the mandatory licence of 18,000 dinars". In a specific case, a procedure has been implemented, a mandatory licence has been entered into a register, you already have it, you get a new request and you re-charging the fee on that mandatory licence. In fact, you have in the records, just take it out, it's far less work. If you say in the definition that it's a concrete work of a state body, then in this case there's less work, there can be no more. That's just one insecure thing he's talking about. The promoter accepted unspeakably everything written by the competent ministry, and since there are several ministries, then we see the colour, in one case at the request, and the request means – the office, the stamp and there is the end of the procedure and the expedition goes to the competent referent. It's work. You're in specific examples, one requirement is 150, another 240, about 3,000, about 6,000, etc. for the same work. It's about inconsistencies. The Republic's administrative fees must correspond to specific work themselves. Since you don't have an estimate, you don't have a specific work analysis, this is all arbitrary. I am responsibly telling you that every local self-government has far more serious access to this issue, that it has far better and more harmonised administrative fees, because they make sure that they don't burden the citizens. If we know that the revenues based on the administrative fees are five, six billion this year, and the total costs of the state administration are 220-230 billion, then we know there's no concrete work here. So the administrative fee should be symbolic, it must be small, it must give every citizen the right to ask for what his interest is, and so does the legal person. You're breaking the Constitution. You've established a sum of 1,070 dinars for the same operation of the state's body for natural persons, for legal persons of 10,000 dinars, and for interpretations. It's, first of all, unprofessional, irresponsible and unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57727	Seven minutes have been used since the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57728	It's always good in politics to point out what you think are bad solutions and try to find better solutions together. I understand your concern for what you're talking about, but there are several elements. I, a little while ago, said that professional services in my ministry, in a ministry whose head I am, and I'm sure in other ministries, were doing their own analysis. They don't have to be perfect, but I don't doubt they did it in a competent way, so I wouldn't agree with you that the people who did it were inconclusive. I don't think so. As far as paying taxis on demand and taxis on solutions, everyone knows that, it's actually one tax. Because administrative fees represent in fact and the attempt by the state to remove too many demands, therefore, only those who really have legitimate interest are driven by the state mechanism and the state apparatus, the fact that the tax on demand is paid, so this is now a question of the theory of administrative law and not only of this law, is the payment of the running of the administrative machinery, the administrative apparatus and the proof of seriousness that there is a real desire to make the decision. Otherwise, theoretically, there would be the possibility that there would be a huge number of demands, even those who are completely uninterested in the state's decision, which would, of course, represent a completely unfair cost for taxpayers. That's why they're taxing on demand, and after that, they're taxing on a solution. These specific things can be broken down, when it comes to licences, I will return to what I said for a little while, this is about the economic value of the decision made by the state and the economic field that the user receives when there is a need for the state to grant approval to someone that is qualified to deal with certain activities, and that licence is, therefore, the right to do certain specific work. In any case, it is almost always combined with very serious economic benefits and interests for who enters and because of this and there are these kinds of taxes. In principle, it is not possible to make fair decisions unless those who are economically powerful pay more than those who are not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57729	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. The time available for the parliamentary group is 28 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57730	This argument of yours does not correspond to what you wrote in the explanation and definition of the Republic's administrative fee. In the law itself, and now in the proposal to amend and supplement this law, you have for the same concrete work different compensation. Take the MUP, and you'll see that these are very small administrative fees compared to some other ministries where they're far larger, several times, a few dozen times. What's a particular piece of work? How much is this work costing workers in the MUP and how much is it on some other ministries? Why are these workers inequitable? Why are these citizens paying taxes on this concrete work of the republican state authorities unfair? You have to answer that, but not now, but you had to do it in the bill. Work must be reported and concrete participation of the Republic's administrative fee in the total cost, in this particular work that costs something. Now, what's worth, it's a total of 220, 230 billion for this year. It's the total work of the state administration. The Republic's administrative fees will eventually be between five, six billion dinars. So it's not concrete work. It's just a segment of real work. That's gotta come out. Again I say to you – local self-government has a better solution for administrative fees. It's even and out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57731	One minute and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57732	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I would also like to take part in the debate under this amendment. I believe that exactly the increase in these administrative taxis will essentially have an adverse impact on seeds that produce seed plants, because it relates essentially to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Plant Varieties. In the end, this increase in taxis will also increase the cost of the instructions primarily in wartime production, because we have several of our seed houses. In recent years, a large number of foreign companies have appeared that place their seeds, and I think that there are unjustly increasing fees on some of the Uzans here, and certainly also related to the registration and, above all, to licenses or extensions of the duration of the licence. I think that our country, and above all, the Ministry of Agriculture, should also help through this very administrative fee primarily primary agricultural production and seek to facilitate, that exactly the cost of costing the input is smaller than it is right now, and through this message is sent that it is essential that the more money is brought into the Republic's budget, and that the overall burden of purchasing these agricultural inputs falls on the primary agricultural producer. It would be all right if the state were as up-to-date as possible in the payments of what should be paid out of the budget, primarily to the primary agricultural producers. This year it was with exceptional delays, but also in previous years, essentially, the agricultural producers did not receive incentives, primarily for the establishment of primary agricultural production in some normal and optimal time limits that would benefit them. So this increase in taxis can only make it even more dissatisfaction, especially with people who are engaged in military agricultural production. I think it is also an opportunity to, regardless of what we are talking about, some concrete amendments, but to take advantage of today's opportunity to tell agricultural producers, primarily grain producers, what can be expected or what awaits them on the issue of first and foremost the ransom price of wheat and whether the state has made a decision on buying-in, first and foremost for the republican commodity reserves, as it is now in the trade portfolio and is within the Ministry of Agriculture. For, if the decision was made to prohibit the export of cereals precisely because of the concern that the total quantities of wheat in the stocks would not be sufficient for a new harvest, in the meantime, there was more precise data that there was sufficient wheat in the stocks and this regulation was abolished, but, expectations from the wheat producer, above all, that the state and the purchase, because it was a practice, a certain amount for its own needs and through at least defining some price that would be some reper for producers. Because we're aware that just now, the producers of the wheat burned terribly compared to last year. The price the state also offered for the purchase of wheat and for later events on our market and on the world market, we are aware that this price is more than doubled. On the other hand, the state did not provide sufficient quantities, or sufficient public storage space, means in public warehouses, so that all those who wish to wait some time around the sale of wheat so that they could lager their own wheat and get a certain subsidy through it. You yourself said a while ago that some 70,000 tons of storage space is currently available, that some other public warehouses are licensed, but all in all, it's not one tenth, of maltene, produced wheat in this year will be able to provide for storage. The largest number of producers will still have to manage on their own or sell, or otherwise store that wheat. I would also like, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, to ask you to make a public statement. First, will the state buy for the Republic's wheat stocks? On the other hand, what are your estimates about some real price of wheat cost? You got it from the Agriculture Committee... (Chairman: People's Parliament, article 106, applies to me and to you. So we've been dealing with the subject for five minutes, which we cannot in any way link to the amendment, so I'm asking you about the subject of the agenda and the amendment that is currently under review. I'm sorry. I'm certainly aware that I've stepped down and I'll be done. Since I just wanted to say that the Committee has requested this information from the Ministry, and to this day they haven't arrived yet. Still, our public should find out. That was my reason for this discussion. Of course, I want to underline once again about the amendment, that it is not good to increase taxes in this scope, because it will directly burden it, first of all, the cost of costing seed plants and that the promoter should consider whether it can remain in the previous solution, i.e. Not to increase these taxes in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57733	Seven minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57734	It's about the law. First, let me say what I think is important. It's about a new kind of obligation when it comes to licenses. They're not of course insignificant amounts, but given the size of the job, it really can't be done in any way, but not even a shadow can fall on end-users, because the biggest tax here is 18,000 dinars, and when you look at how many people get that license, they have an annual turnover, it can't even affect their costs, and therefore, it can't affect the price increase. So it certainly won't be a reason for farmers to protest this kind of tax. What I can tell you is, I'm going to check to see if the Ministry sent you a report on the condition before the harvest. If you didn't get it, you'll get it for sure today, because we sent it on the official route, with all the indicators that are given there and which are important. Unloading too much parliament, we'll have more wheat than last year. That wheat will be better quality than last year. I think we have quite good news about physical indicators. I can't tell you today, because I just don't have the right to do it, how things are going to stand with this question that you've opened up here. What I can say is, we follow the state here daily in the country. We're tracking the situation on every major stock exchange from Budapest, across Paris to America, to Chicago. We will do everything possible in accordance with the financial capacities that the state has, to ensure that agricultural producers are in the best position possible. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57735	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Micic, Bojan Đuric, Judita Popovic and Marija Bulgarčić submitted together to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57736	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in principle and in particular, several important questions about the bill were raised. It's actually three questions. First, how is the type and complexity of the business defined, based on which state authorities charge these taxes as compensation? On the other hand, from the effects foreseen by the adoption of this law and which are indicated in the reasoning of the bill, do we not see to what extent the budget will be filled? So, what are the benefits expected of applying this law? Thirdly, are all three parties who are interested in the adoption of this law, i.e. in amending and supplementing this law? The government says she consulted the other side. The other side is those organs that do this service for which the tax is charged. There is no mention of those third parties, which are legal and natural persons directly affected by the consequences of these taxis being charged. You will allow, this bill largely consists of increasing taxes. Taxes are increasing or by increasing the number of services charged for – is the tax rate increasing or, in fact, wrongly or incorrectly determining the type and complexity of the fees required? Let us start with this Article 40, or heading 85, which speaks of how much tax will be raised from 7.290 dinars to 30,000 dinars, all for the protection of plants, or for the protection of pesticides in agriculture and forestry. A similar increase was also contained in heading 49, which also increases the tax from 13.990 to 45,000 for plant and plant protection products from 13.990 to 45,000 for a solution required for the issue of a solution for the placing on the market of plant protection products from 13.990 to 80,000 dinars. These are large ranges in the increase of taxis and do not answer these questions that I have asked, these three crucial questions. If, and it seems to me, the minister was telling me, agriculture is a serious developmental opportunity and Serbia's export chance, in this way we refer to increasing productivity, i.e. strengthening production in agriculture, increasing taxis -- how can we expect and really what is declared, in the implementation of this declared work, that and serious results? Again, in the application of the law, or in the application of good intentions, something quite the opposite is being specified. There are also certain discrepancies with regard to members who will follow up with regard to these taxis. But we'll talk about it later. There's a serious difference between what's really going on and who's being touched by an increase in taxes? If, in heading 2, the interpretation of the rules of the Republic for a natural person is charged by some thousand and some dinars, and the legal person is required 10,000 taxes, it is not possible to see the difference between the type and complexity of the business when the service is given to a natural person and when the service is given to a legal person. I would especially like to point out one fact that in Serbia 50% of companies operate without a single employee, so it is really a serious thing when legal persons to this extent increase fees with an explanation that this is not such a great burden for legal persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57737	Three minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57738	The same as for a moment, therefore, a one-time fee has been increased. Just before we talked about the fees paid for the permits that are part of the life and traffic of the outside trade, there are taxes increased how much inflation is increased and nothing more. Here the position is that according to the economic strength of whoever is seeking and obtaining the solution that the conditions are laid down for the provision of services in the implementation of the protection measures, therefore, that he is professionally engaged in the job and lives on it, the tax has been increased from 7,200 to 30,000 dinars. The answer to your second question is simple. Legal persons have professional and trained persons who are employed by them, so they can interpret the laws, so they don't need an interpretation of the state or have the opportunity to pay on the market someone who will provide them with legal services, so if they can't provide them in either way and ask the state, then they pay a tax which is almost 10 times higher than when it makes a natural person who is laik and really has a serious problem and from the point of view of his economic power, on average looking at the point of view of the possibility of getting legal help to notify of the legal validity of the rules, so I think it's absolutely fair. And it's also one political position to pay a lot less than the legal person pays. I respect that we can do this in a different way. The government has this position.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57739	The People's Messenger Bojan Đuric has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57740	At least the minister is honest, but what he's saying is completely contrary to the idea of a tax system. If you want to hit someone's economic strength, then you do it through taxes. Tax is for that. You can't do this through tax policy because tax policy is based on one type of service, one round, the size of the business performed by the state authority, and for that to charge the price, or tax, not on the market, I'm sorry, there's no free market, the state is a monopolies in this business, only it can work. This second part of the argument that the state practically, or its authorities, appears as market participants in the provision of legal services, i.e. interpretation of regulations, is also unjustified. The state can't deal with some kind of quaint office. So companies, companies, entrepreneurs, whatever this tariff number includes, or they have the right professional workforce or they don't. Whether or not they have or will depend on their success on the market. The state cannot appear here as someone who offers his service in their daily business. Not to mention that the meaning of this provision or the scope of this provision can be practically annulled by a formal appearance as a natural person who will require a certain kind of explanation or interpretation from the state authority. Secondly, this type of service is not designed to make a legal person very often use this type of service very little. The interpretation of republican rules exists or is envisaged as category only in that, so it should be, in principle, rare situations where there is some serious misunderstanding in the interpretation or extent of the validity of a legal regulation. It cannot be a substitute for the company's lack of lawyers or appropriate experts in its composition or among its employees. What's wrong with this? Because then it's pointless to adopt an amendment to the company law. Mrs. Comic was there, she was also the applicant of the amendment, that the founding capital as a limited liability society would be 100 dinars, and then make this kind of discrimination in paying a fee for explaining the republican rules, i.e. 1,000 dinars for natural persons and 10,000 dinars for legal persons. It seems to citizens, entrepreneurs, companies, that it seems like some kind of fraud, even though I know it wasn't the government's intention or the legislator of this law. You will have thousands, tens of thousands of practically business dead businesses that will be formally registered, introduced into APR databases, and then will not be able to meet these minimum obligations which this law imposes and which are simply normal in business traffic. This also endangers the legal certainty and position of third parties in relation to such firms. You can't spend their human potential, human resources by punishing them in that situation where any law or regulation or any other regulations of the republican rank that the government has brought or any state authority will force them to pay ten times the tax of natural persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57741	Three minutes and 25 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57742	If you wish to apply the provisions of Article 91 strictly. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that taxes and other state-owned taxes are being paid according to economic power, relations under this law and all other laws must rank exactly what economic power means. So, it can't, if it's paid by economic power, the company that's lost can't pay the same as the one that has profit. It can't be the same if it has a profit, one that has a profit of four dinars and one that has 4m euros and one that has 40m euros. Telecom would then pay this country the most, but it's also done. That's not the way it is with the citizens. Citizens aren't all economically powerful to pay, you have to rank there. But you didn't do it. You mention it now, but it wasn't implemented in law. That's the point. So if you're consistent with paying for a particular service, then you need to get that service out of the way. If you combine that with economic strength, then you have to say exactly how much they pay citizens who have profits, etc. Here, you're a lawyer, you've worked as a lawyer, you've been a minister of justice, have you ever seen an exact request that the citizen has so many and so many incomes to pay so much and so many republican, administrative or judicial fees? Never. So there's no ranking, there's no conditional principle of payment towards economic power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57743	One minute and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic submitted to the 63rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 71st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57744	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the amendments submitted by the SRS could essentially, and to the law on republican administrative fees, be classified as three groups or three categories. One refers to our interventions to reduce the republican administrative tax that you propose. There were cases that we suggested that it increase. This third category is to treat in different ways, so not the consumer price index, but to go, what we have proposed in the amendment, to apply the NBS reference rate. That is what the substance of this amendment is to Article 73(1). But, Mr. Minister, when an analysis is made of the amendments and the addition of the Bill on Republic Administrative Taxes, then you will see that the president of your party and the President of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Boris Tadic and some number of ministers in the government who are calling for more wealthy people in Serbia to give up some of their incomes and that in a different way, they are distributed to make it easier for Serbian citizens to suffer the economic crisis to lose your moral right because here, on this kind of unprincipled and perhaps not from the aspect of economic justification, you increase the republican administrative fees where they have increased more times or in percentages of 700%, you say that these are administrative fees paid once. However, although they are one time I think it is not realistic, so I said that you are losing your moral right to invite some citizens to have little understanding of the economic situation in Serbia, on the one hand, on the other hand, perhaps even well if you were at least once a week an authorised representative of the government in this period as a resolute minister of agriculture that citizens can hear certain views of you personally as well as how the state struggles to protect the agricultural sector, primarily primary agricultural production. Here you mentioned, too, how and how the buy-in should have been regulated, and some of the fellow Members of the People's Parliament talked about it, but I think that this regulation that your ministry passed has not well regulated the purchase of agricultural products that there is abuse. Here, you're now saying that the number of preventive controls will be increased, I think it might feel when a seasonal purchase of some agricultural products passes. I don't think the Republic stock reserves provide an adequate answer to all the questions they might and must give an answer very often. Now when it comes to the purchase of this strawberry fruit, you know that the price is extremely low that there is no economic cost-effectiveness to meet or to charge agricultural producers, but very often if the rain starts around Kragujevac, it takes advantage of the opportunity for you in Machva, there in Podrinj, the buyers to say, today it was raining, so the price of your agricultural products, i.e. specifically the ragujevac, is not a good quality, so we treat it either in some last or third class. I think the Ministry of Agriculture, or the agricultural inspection, would have to react here and at least partially help agricultural producers, because they're going to admit Mr. Minister, left to themselves. I think the state has made some systemic mistakes, too. You came in too late, and we are familiar with the talk of the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture in Aryl, and that's exactly the day that the Serbia area has been affected by an elemental accident that the city has tried to find public storage facilities for the raspberries, it cannot be done at the moment when the harvest begins. If you had entered this action, I don't think of you personally now, if I hadn't put all the burden on you, you'd have gotten into that ministry too late, maybe by any chance you'd have been solved before, but ten years in the Ministry of Agriculture, there's no adequate attempt to resolve it, and once again I say, when it comes to this amendment, which we have submitted to Article 73, we suggest that the words "user price index" are deleted and that instead, means "the NBS rate reference is the basis for increasing the Republic's administrative taxis" and not what's supposed to be here. Once again here in this House, there has been a lot of talk about decentralisation, but I have here one piece of paper with a single statement in local self-government or in the city administration in Loznica, and on behalf of the Republic's administrative fee, 720 dinars are paid, and on behalf of the local administrative fee in Loznica overa is 80 dinars. I think that this should be taken into account, and then in practice it would show that this government cares about decentralisation, and then it would actually be carried out in such a way as to not some other proposals and measures where we have had the opportunity lately and that some legislative proposals here are being analysed and that they are even adopted in this House, and they certainly will not lead to decentralisation, on the contrary, will probably make it more difficult for local self-government to be in place than they have ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57745	Four minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57746	When Mr Krasic spoke, so we had a debate on this matter, that is the point that you put the Government in second position. I think we've had a useful debate about this. I'm happy to find out that the rules, I'll only use one minute, about the ransom seats, gave as much as I can see the good result and I see it by the number of demands that the citizens made to the Ministry of Intervention. In buying out the raspberries, it was a very small number, and here I call here at this time anyone who has any problem with the buyers in the buying places to contact the Ministry of Agriculture, all the phones are available on all the local media, both in relation to the raspberries or cherries, so of course we enter and we have entered the wheat harvest, and I think we've taken a good step. Things can't be solved overnight, but I think we're headed in a very good direction and we can totally consolidate this thing in the course of this and next season. The public raspberries warehouses are open before the harvest started or just at the time of the harvest movement and anyone who wants to store their raspberries in a public warehouse with a subsidized deck and that is the measure opened by the state in these circumstances, which is unfortunately worse than last year, with full awareness of a very complicated, complex relationship between manufacturers, refrigerators, exporters, we will discuss this with producers first of all. I also have to say that the price of raspberry on the world market is much lower than last year, last year it was 2.7 euros, so it went down. We started out with 1.7 or how much information I have somewhere around 1.5 euros is abroad now, it can't have its reflection, its expression and reflection on the price that goes to the producers, but I hope that all market participants can find some kind of sustainable solution that we can all somehow end this year. So I hope that the price of raspberries next year will be better as the price of cherry is extraordinary this year, and as the price of strawberry was extraordinary, there are simple things for someone to come out extra, for someone less good, but it's important and I agree that we can take some steps to reduce the risks and make agricultural production more specific, and I think that's the most important thing of all. A certain and increased measure of certainty not only in the fruit industry, but also in livestock production, good organisation of warfare, increased vegetable production we have a great chance of not now burdening this law on administrative taxes with this we will have opportunities soon on the Committee on Agriculture and I call on everyone interested to participate in this. I think that the president of the Committee and I will make it easy to agree that in August what we said a while ago, we will open a debate on the agricultural budget for 2012, so that we will be ready to make this big budget. Then let's have some conclusions about all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57747	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Time available for 20 minutes and 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57748	Well, now the minister's saying nice, we're tearing each other apart. Is the theme of agriculture or administrative fees, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57749	Administrative fees are a subject, people's MPs who do not respect them, I remind them, and I hope that, in accordance with Article 27, MPs also exercise their right and respect the Rules of Procedure and Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57750	I'll respect the Rules of Procedure, just like the Minister. A member of the 73rd literally said something fell from Mars. It's never happened with us, or maybe now it's happening at this more recent time, in this pro-European time, Mrs. Komic I use this anti-European time of debate, hopefully, feel free to drink water you won't choke, we have these 20 minutes to advertise SRS ideology which is contrary to EU ideology. Here I will respect the Rules of Procedure as well as Minister Petrovic. A member of the 73rd literally said something fell from Mars. It's never happened with us, or maybe it's happening now in this more recent time, this pro-European time, Mrs. Komic, I'm using this anti-European time of debate, hopefully, feel free to drink water, you're not going to hug. We have these 20 minutes to advertise SRS ideology, which is contrary to EU ideology. Okay... (President: Article 106 and agenda theme. Yeah, good. Like this, how did this fall off Mars? So let me tell you the truth, this is essentially a member that regulates indexation. The question is then whether indexation is possible in the case of rules governing tax marks, court fees, administrative fees, etc.? It's not possible, so it's not possible. Ten days ago, I was talking, that's what Mr. Labus here invented in this room back in 1993, when it was that crazy inflation, etc., and since then it's been frozen, and every year it changes with the rise in prices to the few that measured inflation. Now we're victims of one, that's a habit, literally a habit. Article 73 says about this, you have passed the Law on Administrative Taxes by headings, you have determined the normal amount of taxis, in order not to change the law in the future, so as not to change the amount of money in tariff numbers, Article 73 speaks of a kind of automation whereby each year the amount of administrative fees will be moved. To be honest with you, if that's what inflation is about, by the way, literally, it wasn't much of a problem. However, these amounts are extremely large. In these administrative tax regulations, I have to draw attention, the water falls all excuses, it's about a price service. It's not the price of service. The material condition is taken, the economic potential of the applicant is not working, it is tax and excise. This isn't working. In principle, the applicant shall have that status and there shall be no discrimination against applicants. There's some tolerance, when it comes to legal faces, that's what I have to say. That there is some tolerance for selective consideration of the same requirement, a physical person, a legal person, should be really restrictively interpreted and extremely. That's the second theme of this story, literally speaking. However, this does not solve our hunger for money. It doesn't solve, it doesn't even ease. Now I don't know how accurate the data is, if it's just five billion this year, or if it's a smaller amount or a bigger amount. If it's a larger amount, it's a slightly higher amount. So he's not. What's more important is that taxes cannot be an obstacle that prevents access to the body, the availability of organs to our citizen, to our legal person. There can justifiably be criticised for such a concept. We're talking about concepts, we're not talking about amounts, because here it's moving from 260 dinars to, I think one tax was 170,000 on natural treasures and questioning someone. It can't be an excuse and not every citizen is looking for this solution for which a tax of 10,000 dinars is prescribed. Something's showing that it's not right. If this hill was written, you can see it in the very explanation. Especially this police section. He says, for the issue of an I.D. for foreigners who have been granted a permanent stay, I say, we already have heading 36, I think, 37. It already exists. The issue of a temporary identity card for foreigners means only to add this – a personal ticket for foreigners, i.e. a temporary ID card for foreigners and there is 3100 dinars of this fee. Secondly, this part of the argument, he says, "it is also proposed to issue visas for a shorter one entry, a period of validity and a visa from 30 days to 15 days", so it does not change by this law this time-limit, it has been amended by the Foreign Act, so that this argument is slightly confused. In the end, a member doesn't stand and can stand like that. However, I must tell you that in heading 44 for the security of the person and place, there is only a small amount of material damage, a tax of 10,500 dinars. It's in line with some new logic now. When it is a small accident, there are no major consequences for life and health, we have that European record, the report, you know, to agree, etc., but you know how it is with us. We're Indians. You hit me from behind, you hooked me up here and there, there's even a crowd, the police come out, and I don't know what they're doing on that insight, it's a tiny little thing going on. In Belgrade, this must take five, six minutes to free traffic, because if traffic is not free, traffic will be crowded, etc. It's a new tax that's been put in, and I just don't see why that tax was put in, when the police essentially have to finish that shop by official duty. Officially, she has to finish that shop. One more remark, that's what the Ministry will probably interpret, and why did you keep these charges for the misdemeanor proceedings here? Why? We've got a mistrial. You can't regulate something that's judicial by administrative fees anymore. We didn't want to write you these amendments, remember one thing, what it's about. You have to regulate it with that law, even though a misdemeanor is being conducted by the authority of the administration, remember. The fact that the customs authority conducts an infringement procedure for the sake of efficiency, etc., cannot undermine the basic principle of the concept. Don't put that in this law. It's going into that law, so it's going to be the same as the exception to being applied at the customs station. If we speak consensually, what the law should look like. If you want to stick where it gets to, just get the money, then it's another thing and another concept. That's what I have to tell you. I think this kind of indexation, we're just a little bit affected by this Article 73 right now, you can see that this solution is a reference rate, etc., and that's not exactly a golden solution. You have to say that, too. You know how the NBS determined that reference rate, it comes during Jelasic, so that was 15%, 17% was the same. So if you have definitely determined the consumer price index, as some relatively permanent category, then please consistently represent that principle. Let me give you a few examples. If the consumer price index should enable revaluation or prevent loss of substance or, more correctly, show value of something, and go with the application of that index in order to balance and obtain the same value at some point after a time, then, please, that principle applies both when the state is in debt and when the state is searching. Let's be clear. Don't fight me. You have a whole series of tax rates with wide-ranging tax regulations. When someone owes the state, do you know what interest they charge there? They're pretty much like these green ones, and he's got a tax bill, and he hasn't paid his taxes, and the meter's working. There's a higher tax rate, a rate that's applied than here. What does that mean? The demand that the state has is much more important than the demand that a citizen has for the state. You remember when you're late for retirement, child support, and other things, there's no interest. Pray to God if he comes. You know, something can be a principle, so it can be a wrong principle, but it's best when it's applied. If we have selective principles, and they're applied differently, then there's a disaster. Of course, the state has absolute power, the state should be aware of its absoluteness, because it has a serious job, to ensure sovereignty, territorial integrity, and to rule the state in this area. There must be some measure. This may jump a little out of this discussion, but it's good to hear it. Just to draw attention to some things. You know, even today, and not just today, but since maybe 1992, 1993, it's impossible to compare some things. That's what I have to tell you. In 1988, 1989, the Stock Reserve Directorate had two to three billion free funds for interventions, in the area where it intervenes, where it buys surpluses to keep the price, intervenes also to keep some price. Today to talk about it, I think it would really be unobstructive, as it was unobstructed in 1992, 1993, to talk, where our directorate with two or three billion dollars. It can only sound nice, but in practice it's hardly feasible, even the director of that directorship was Ivan Stambolic, you know, you think of some problem etc. Can we stop these disturbances on the market? If we're programmed, we can, if the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate becomes a guarantee of all situations, when surpluses and deficits can occur, that's possible. Can we get to that situation? I wish we could, but it's hard to go. Trust me. Now let me mention to you, dear EU. It became a little bit more serious the moment the peasants stopped throwing tomatoes, potatoes and these other things. When she provided food stability, she could turn to other jobs, and for 15 years they have been fighting only for subsidies. The whole of agriculture is a struggle for subsidies, both national and European. But forget the story. For 500 years, they've been harassing around the world, stealing, so they've become rich and they've stolen us all for 800 years, so we're poor. I can't, "Ficia" and "Mercedes", I can't do it on the same line at all. We can wake up our Fica, but away from the abarth can't be. Now let's bring it down to these normal things. Here are two things for the Ministry of Agriculture that can significantly help – 250,000 hectares are not processed in this country since we got tractors. It is said that if oil turnips were produced there, they would have biodiesel, probably the largest quantity in Europe. So they'd use anything they didn't use. For these mountain-mounted areas of 400 metres above sea level, then up, where intense people are moving out, here is Mr. Petrovic, think about it, the project is called – cow-body, free pasture, no need for veal, the main product is calf and only changing parcels. One takes the grass off, one takes the pasture, and the next year the other. Three times a day it takes a man to tour, to organize a state ransom nicely, and all of our villages can bring people back. I'm not saying anything epochal, but there's some kind of attempt to make. So, biomass doesn't fail, it still has some function, organically correct food is produced, the most expensive can be a brand of Serbia, because Serbia is the most beautiful state, you probably know that. If you didn't know, there is no globe for a better country and a nicer state than Serbia. What are you laughing at? You don't believe me. There isn't. Tell me which country is more beautiful than Serbia? It doesn't exist? We're the most beautiful. I guess that's clear to you. So there are possibilities. I think it's a much more important will and it's much more important to throw out these intermediaries and these things that go into these jobs. I don't want to make it very hard for you now, on this beautiful day today, which all the companies are mentioned, which are all monopolies, in which they look at their monopoly, etc. etc. Enough of that black stuff. Everybody knows that. You don't need to repeat it anymore. I think that a fundamental reform of this regulation on the Republic's administrative fees is needed, if these principles of the SRS can help you, it would be good. If you think you're pushing it further this way, then believe me, next time there can be some kind of republican administrative tax, and then some big-digit heading numbers, so half of us are going to think it's a printing error with those zeros. It needs to be avoided, I think that in general these fees should be truly symbolic, to enable the principle and communication between citizens and the state. This approach should be allowed to be as effective as possible, as simple as possible by the European Court of Human Rights, when considering these complaints, submissions and when entering this procedure must be priced and what is the difference with that approach, etc. The European Court of Human Rights, it has nothing to do with the EU to know, has to do with the Council of Europe, Serbia is a member of the Council of Europe, as well as many other countries, which are members of the Council of Europe and are not members of the EU, and some will never be members of the EU, such as the situation with Serbia. Get out of these lists, those dates, negotiations and stuff. Solve these specific things, because concrete things depend on life, and these imaginary ones don't even depend anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57751	Sixteen minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? National MP Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57752	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the least of the problems of harmonising the dinar sums of the fees provided for in the Bill's proposal, and other inconsistencies are the problem for this law, as an example I would like to cite certain solutions regarding the level of taxis of heading 197 and 201, so I would just like to compare to see how this inconsistencies are implemented in this bill. For the authorisation of importing non-hazardous waste for treatment, a tax of 25,000 dinars is paid and for the authorisation of importing and placing on the market a substance that damages the ozone layer of 4,660 dinars. There's a huge difference. For the authorisation to export non-hazardous waste of 150,000 dinars and for the export of that substance that can damage the ozone layer of 4,660 dinars. For the issue of a waste collection permit, 15,000 dinars are paid and for the opinion of importing or exporting products or equipment containing or relying on substances that damage the ozone envelope of 1,000 dinars. In order to confirm the exemption from the obligation to obtain a licence of 2,200 dinars and to issue a licence for the own management of packaging waste of 60,000 dinars. There are huge differences in taxi payments for something that is ecologically dangerous and for what is actually only the cleaning and editing of Serbia. I don't think anyone's wrong about taking care of their own environment in this way. So I suppose it was not the legislator's intensities to regulate environmental protection and environmental issues in this way, but from the solutions proposed in terms of the amount of tax, this is exactly what each law carries a certain message, because each law actually represents and becomes part of the legal order. Therefore, care should also be taken to determine the level of the tax, what the tax is intended to offer to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57753	Two minutes and 35 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha. Here you go. Time available for four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57754	Thank you. We will once again point to this anomaly that we see in this law, which is in the course of this year, one sixth, seventh law, and tomorrow we will have another law, which will re-incorporate all of this that you can solve with one legal rule. Legal rules are clear. So, when you state in one legal regulation all other legal regulations that show up in the same legal category and give instructions to that law, you can change it. Then you're socially responsible, and this is not how you are. This is how we repeat, and we waste time, and so do the MPs. Here, we try, so in every law, in ten places, wherever we change it, etc., we spend our time both on us and on this congregation and on you, we keep on telling you – solve it with one regulation, change it, correct it, etc. How far does that stubbornness go? Why stubbornness? There's no reason, take care of it. We can be ideologically different, we can differ by different things, but here it's clear, there's only legal technique and nothing else. You will certainly get one quality law with that solution and we will not waste that unnecessary time, because Europe is waiting for us. Please don't waste any time. Let's use that speed, etc. This way. Not only in this case, but in hundreds of other cases, what is unnecessary, what we can legally regulate by one law, don't change it in 10, 15, 20 or 30 laws. I repeat, so far at seven or eight, this may be the eighth law, and the next one is the ninth and who knows by the end of the year how many of these laws and these amendments will be and how many amendments, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57755	It's been used for two minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 74th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57756	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, here, at the end of the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes, we have submitted to this Article 74th amendment relating to the date of application of this law. So we have offered you one solution to apply this law from 1 January 2012, not eight days from the entry, or voting. So, what did we consider this amendment of ours? That there is quite enough time in these few months, until 1 January 2012, to understand all the senselessness of these increases in administrative taxis. Many MPs have said that I do not repeat individual examples, what is happening and what are the effects of the adoption of this law. There are two cumulative effects of this law. The first is what you claim to be a full budget, which is a very suspicious category. The second cumulative effect is something that is reality, and that is an increasingly poor citizen and an ever-increasing hand of this government in citizens' pockets. It's the effect of this law. On the other hand, when you, Mr. Minister, explained and spoke of not accepting these amendments to this law, you spoke and mentioned serious strategic procedures. I have to agree with you, there are really serious strategic procedures. One refers to the sphere of foreign policy and serious strategic procedure and the collapse of Serbia's territorial integrity, which is called the recognition of the fake state of Kosovo. The second serious strategic procedure concerns internal policy. The strategic procedure is called – an increasing number of people fired, an increasing number of poor people, an ever-increasing debt to citizens and an ever worse life in Serbia. Now, these are strategic procedures that you have tried to explain to the citizens of Serbia. It's this socially responsible government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-04-0.u57757	It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the sitting agenda, and pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Tuesday, July 5th 2011, starting at 14.00pm as the day for voting on the agenda of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I also remind you, on the basis of Article 90, that tomorrow, the Sixth Extraordinary Session is scheduled, which we will open immediately after we have finished voting day. It's scheduled in 15.00 hours, but we will, of course, be obliged to let you know if the start is delayed. It is also a plan to open a first-point search after we determine the agenda and decide to merge the agenda points into a common principle search. It's simple, I think it's correct to tell you that this is a plan, given the deadlines for the amendment. If there are any changes, you will receive either oral notice during the session or notice in the parliamentary groups. Thank you. We'll continue our work tomorrow at 1400 hours.
