ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58383	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. 85 MPs have inserted their identification cards into the electronic voting system, and that we have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly established conditions for the start of work. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, before moving to a further debate, the session takes place on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in the first position that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues within the scope of the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the body on which they are headed, which are necessary for the exercise of the function of the National Assembly and in particular in Article 286(2), it is said that the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group or the President of the Parliamentary Group shall have the right to exercise in the session of the National Assembly or in an oral session, in one address for a period of up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs present in the electronic system for voting or in the hall, and to ask whether the Presidents, or the authorised representatives of their members of Parliament, shall use their right of the Members of the Parliament of 286. MP Zeljko Tomic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58384	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question concerns Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and is about the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. We learn from the media that the Serbian government, or its negotiator, Mr. Borko Stefanovic, reached an agreement with Kosovo Albanians in Brussels on July 2nd, and the text of the agreement did not allow this people and this assembly to see or discuss it. It is unfortunate that we received the text of the agreement under the media and that of the Pristina-based "Express", from which Belgrade-based "Politicals" carried it. So much for the seriousness of this government, so much for the seriousness of the negotiating team headed by Borko Stefanovic, and says the Pristina daily Express has published the text of the agreement by giving a scanned original in English, though, with no title. At the last session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, Mr Stefanovic introduced us to the government's position that there will be no text, that nothing can be in the form of the text so as not to come into the situation, don't God forbid that the Serbian parliament should ratify it because, my God, it would recognise Kosovo's independence. We haven't heard any more nonsense in a long time, and we want and we want the debate on Kosovo and Metohija and on the negotiations to be brought to this parliament, because only this parliament has the power to decide. Negotiator Stefanovic, accusing the opposition of having no idea about Kosovo, said in the media that the agreement was made for the benefit of Kosovo Serbs, but did not give arguments. Even those Serbs from Kosovo, whose benefit this agreement was reached, did not know or know what was coming, or what was in the agreement, even though it was a constitutional obligation. I repeat, the assembly was kicked out of a decision on Kosovo. According to the Kosovo Serb reaction, that is, the Serb people's assembly there, the only elected Serb body in Kosovo whose legitimacy we cannot doubt, Kosovo Serbs are at the view that the agreement not only does not allow them to be satisfied but it is claimed, I quote, that treason and a drastic violation of the Serbian Constitution have been committed. Indeed, Serbian people and even Serbian citizens must know what it is and what it has discussed and decided by a large assembly of the Serbian people of Kosovo and Metohija. They rejected all agreements and negotiations by negotiator Borko Stefanovic, or this government of the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, there are a lot of things, eight points are listed. We ask the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to open a debate on the Kosovo and Metohija issue, to establish and define national and state policies towards the southern Serbian province in a transparent and transparent manner. Indeed, whether there is someone reasonable in Serbia who would be against such a proposal, or against the proposal that institutions are dealing with such an important issue, not that on the basis of various oral agreements with Edith Tahiri or with some other negotiator on the Albanian side, something that none of Serbia's citizens know what it is. Brooke and shame on this parliament, but also on the government of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, a large assembly of the Serb people at KIM calls, imagine, on complexity and unity, to stand behind a policy founded here in parliament. I'm just asking -- are you aware that you are not informing the citizens or the parliament that, drastically, both the Prime Minister and the president of the state are violating the Constitution. Do you realize that because of this act one day someone will have to answer, not just in front of history, but in front of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58385	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58386	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, old practice - ask a question, but it's like doing it in the wind. There's absolutely no response from the government. It's a simple question to point out the Government with an answer and show how something really works, but there's not a single letter. Last week I asked the question – what is the government doing to facilitate the extremely difficult position of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia because it is one of the motor forces holding Serbia? It is the most vital part of Serbia, peasants and small and medium-sized enterprises. They are in such a difficult position, to seriously ask the question, that already in the autumn it is beginning to be slowly realized that the gloomy forecast, that a large number of people will have to go to the street, because the business of small and medium-sized enterprises is absolutely led to absurdity, i.e. it is impossible to do business in these conditions anymore. Now a simple question is asked – why is there no answer? Why didn't the Ministry of Finance, or by the Prime Minister, arrive at least a few sentences? Because there's nothing. Because if they wrote anything, we'd have something concrete. We could see if that can really happen or can't happen. That's the basic reason. The government, absolutely, has no intention, nor is it doing anything to pre-warn an extremely large problem that the state will face in the autumn. That's the biggest problem this country is facing. Business conditions are impossible on all elements. Absolutely impossible, in all segments. You've made it possible, even though we have the Monopoly Act, with large trade chains, an absolute monopoly. According to some studies, they settle their obligations three times later than they collect their claims. They even mention certain trade chains that settle their obligations in 120 days, in six months. You know that interest is about 2.4% per month. It's totally free money. That'll take a while. At one point, there's going to be an absolute breakdown. I also asked the question, given the indisputable fact, that one number, not a large number of enterprises, owes five billion euros to this country. Five billion euros, my people. Do you know how much this country gets from the IMF? I think the total debt of the state is something like 15-16 billion euros. Within Serbia, these small and poor, a certain number of people, i.e. companies, owes five billion euros. I also asked for the names of these companies and the basis by which he owes – taxes, social and pension contributions and other obligations? Not a single letter. How and how to write to those who finance them, who are essentially managing this country. It is the best picture to see what is the situation in Serbia and what is happening in Serbia. I would also like to ask today another question to our state bodies, above all to the President of the Republic, but also to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What will they do when it comes to the property of the refugees, especially in Croatia? What about the return of refugees, especially in Croatia? You know that Croatia should enter the EU, but unlike all other countries, Croatia seems to be much easier than other countries. She simply doesn't seem to have to meet those obligations that all other states have to meet. I ask the question – why does our country go over it easily? Do you know how many billion euros Croatia owes Serbs for their property, for their apartments? Do you know how many tens of thousands of refugees are in Serbia, and Croatia should join the EU? I ask the President of the Republic as he walks to the Brionys to ask the question – what about refugees? When will they be allowed back? What about their property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58387	Five minutes. The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58388	I would like to ask the MUP question, or the competent minister – how far did the investigation take place in connection with the attack of MP Esad Djudjevic? As a people's send-off, I want to point out that this problem has received one connotation which is precisely due to the fact that the MUP has failed as soon as possible to detect the attackers on this vehicle. A situation has been created that various explanations and interpretations must be given. So this doesn't happen any further, I'm asking the authorities to come out as soon as possible and as soon as possible. If they haven't already discovered the perpetrators, let them come out and tell us how far this investigation has taken place, so that all speculation can be avoided. I think it's a public interest, especially the political public in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58389	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58390	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP is joining the condemnation of the attack on the vehicle of Ambassador Esad Djudjevic. I also want to ask the Serbian government as far as the talking investigation has come and who should tell us who is responsible for the attack on Mr. Djudjevic's vehicle. In addition to the attack, however, public attention has also sparked the latest statements by Mr Djudzevic and representatives of the Bosniak List coalition for the European Sandzak. Those statements, I may say, are statements that have a little bit irritated the public on the one hand. On the other hand, these statements added instability in the Sandzak area. Today, when some politicians and media talk about the situation of Sandzak, they often talk about the incendiary statements made by Mufti Muamer Efendija Zukorlic. However, these statements are not nearly the same as those we heard from the Bosniak list's representative, who directly accused the state summit of the attack and said it was a political attack. I think that the Serbian government, and I particularly think of the ruling parties, i.e. the DS, must react and make it clear to the public whether there is any truth about what Mr. Judjevic and the representatives of the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak said or whether it is the start of a pre-election campaign of a ruling coalition. Sandzak citizens don't believe you and think it's one of your common uduras to win as many votes as possible in the next election. The ruling party, I am thinking primarily of the DS, as well as the Serbian government, must have a clear view, because the charges come from a member of the ruling coalition, from MPs who support the Serbian government, and from that party of that coalition, which, together with you, participated in a referendum fraud in the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has literally pushed Bosniaks and other national minorities into the citizens of the second row. It comes from a party, or coalition that has participated in the creation of parallel institutions in the Sandzak area, both educational, religious and institution of importance for the national minority of Bosniaks. It also comes from either a coalition whose leaders only a year ago when the problems over the Bosniak National Council were established said there was no violation of Bosniak rights in Sandzak. It comes from a party or coalition that has been taking part in state policy for six years in a direct or indirect way. Finally, it comes from a party or coalition whose MPs here since 2008 have often supported those proposals of the ruling coalition, or the Serbian government, which went directly to the harm of the Sandzak citizens. The Liberal Democratic Party also welcomes the latest statements by lawmakers and officials of the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak, which discuss human rights violations in the Sandzak area. That way they confirm what the LDP has been saying in recent years. We're happy on the one hand, but on the other hand we don't feel pleasure because we've lost time, the time it takes for these problems that really exist in Sandzak to finally be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58391	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58392	Madam Chairman, I want to ask the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Traffic Safety Agency on the roads for the next reason. This assembly passed the Road Safety Act, which only during the public debate campaign that lasted around the Road Safety Act succeeded with a media campaign, primarily by placing billboards of warning messages, etc., to reduce the number of traffic accidents by 30% on our roads. A year after the law was applied, a significant number of car accidents were reduced, and I will remind you that between 800 and 1,000 people died on an annual level in Serbia from 1990 to 2010. Over the past 30 years, some 40,000 people have died in car accidents in Serbia, the size of a city such as Jagodina or Sremska Mitrovica. In addition to the immeasurable loss of human life, the cost for the state is also high, and it is valued at one dead at about a billion euros, not to mention the mental suffering of relatives, the loss, the high costs that no one has ever calculated in terms of lost working days, social benefits, the cost of treatment, the payment of disability, etc. What is worrying, despite the fact that the new law has reduced the number of victims in car accidents, is that in the last six months of this year, from January to June, the number of traffic accidents in which pedestrians are killed has increased by as much as 67.5%. I'll remind you that the money invested in traffic security on the roads is the most rewarding investment because it's coming back tenfold. Of course, this is not just a matter of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Agency for Traffic Safety, etc., because the largest number of victims are pedestrians. The pedestrians were not covered by training until now, despite the fact that the new law has made many good solutions for which children in preschool institutions, educational institutions, etc. are systematically covered by education and prevention and secondary mini training for road traffic. My question is, what will be done by the Agency for Road Safety, National Strategy and the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy, in view of the worrying trend in the growth of car accidents? I have already warned once that it is necessary to continue the media campaign to reduce the number of car accidents, because it is obvious that with the end of some media campaign we have a trend in increasing traffic accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58393	National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58394	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, I request information from the Ministry of Economy, the Privatisation Agency and the Prime Minister, so information on the fate of two Chacan enterprises. The paper factory and the Chipsari in Cačka, once known "Cypsari", known to the wider Serbian citizen as the Agricultural Industrial Combined "Cacchak" so Pik Cačak. Today in Chačka, the workers will go out on the street, which means that great pain and trouble have made them come out in this heat and demand their rights. I would like to remind fellow MPs and all citizens and all workers who are in a similar situation that it is practical when it comes to these two collectives in the town of Cačka, as it is said in a sports dictionary, a ball in the courtyard of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The workers are desperate, their families are on the verge of existence, the beginning of the school year is nearing, and they have no information whatsoever, or that someone has found to deign them, to receive them. I guess he's counting on the team when it comes to the Agricultural Industrial Combined Cachak has about 120 workers, so they're a handful of them and what do we care about them. There are a few more workers in the paper factory, but I appreciate that the working class, that workers will quickly, as soon as they sense and unite throughout Serbia in the autumn, and ask for their rights. I particularly insist on the response of the ministry of economy Nebojsa Ciric to respond to the fate and intention of his ministry, therefore, of the resolute ministry and of the government of the Republic of Serbia with "Cypsare" in Cačka. Last night, the unions from these two collectives that I listed, so it's about the paper factory and the Chipsari in Cačka, they were hosting on one local television and all of them, regional television, Cačak TV, and all the citizens who saw that show could see one of the contributions that was recorded in September of last year. Minister of Economy then, Mr Dinkic, with local leaders of the Association of Citizens, called the United Regions of Serbia, has pompously announced a solution to the "Cypsare" problem. It's all right, you've kept your jobs, you're going to be enrolled, and then here's almost a year, we've got a situation where these poor people won't be allowed to receive them, even if they tell them what their destiny is. The owner of the privatized Chipsare is in jail, neither is his fate, nor is the fate of small shareholders, and as I heard and saw in last night's television show, some parts of equipment, trucks, vans, and what's already sold there and nobody knows how and nobody knows who's stroking out of those funds that are obtained by selling those funds. Mostly, workers were played by Mr.Dinic and the Association of Citizens of the United Regions of Serbia for the purpose of an extended political campaign, according to my modest assessment of the worker child. Therefore, I pray to Mr Nebojsa Kiric, who, I would like to say in a few cases and in matters of MPs, and in matters of my smallness, proved to be a correct man. To come out immediately with an answer and information to these questions, which I asked, not to wait 15 days, not to stand people at 40 degrees in the city center, shouting and begging. As far as I understand it, they are pleased at this point, at least with someone taking them to Belgrade and talking to them. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Economy, because of the promises they made, is obliged to respect you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58395	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report to use their right under Article 286(2)? If so, please sign in. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I'd like to inform you that no one has reported a leave of absence from today's session. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for today's session to be attended by: Saša Jankovic, Citizens' Protector, Tamara Luksic-Orlandic, Deputy Citizens' Protector Goran Basic, Deputy Citizens' Protector Jakovljevic, Secretary General of the Civil Protection Service and Mina Rolović-Jocic, head of the Citizens' Protection Office. We continue our work and move on to a unique search on the 2nd item of the agenda – the Annual Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2010, submitted by the Citizens' Protector, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and Administration. You have received a regular Annual Report from the Citizens' Protector for 2010, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protector, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Justice and Administration Committee. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs of the individual parliamentary group, and this: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia, G17 plus, Together for Shumadia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs, who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every once every five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a series of MPs who wish to participate in the debate, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I also inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS MP; MP Milica Vojic – Markovic, DSS MP – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Zeljko Ivanji, United Regions of Serbia, G17 plus, Together for Šumadija, MP Gordana Pop – Lazic, SRS parliamentary group and MP Kenan Hajdarevic, MP for LDP. If any other parliamentary group wants to empower one of their members, please submit that notice so that we can inform the National Assembly. According to Article 152, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word has a National MP, Siniša Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Chairman, Mr Jankovic, gentlemen of the co-workers, the PUPS parliamentary group, with great interest and responsibility, analysed the report on the achievement and protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens in Serbia. It is particularly important to know that this interest stems from its legitimate responsibility in the analysis of the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens, the PUPS is located in a huge group of citizens of this country who are in their status as a pension population. This population first feels all the elements of the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, because it is a group of citizens who are in our system with protection of guarantees which, among other things, is given by the Protector and protection relating to their acquired rights, guaranteed rights and social rights from all pension, disability and social benefits, which, in themselves, are specialised and extremely sensitive. We are aware of the fact that we are members of the party in power even more and that we are even more responsible for achieving and protecting the rights and freedoms of all citizens of Serbia, whether young or older, whether employed or persons in education. The PUPS parliamentary group has concluded with great certainty that Serbian citizens now have special awareness of their rights and civil freedoms, unlike some earlier social periods. Respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens requires legal order, guaranteed by the Constitution and by law, and we are a political group, which, with its programme, firstly guarantees a commitment to the achievement of all the social rights of our citizens. In direct work, we see the objective dissatisfaction of citizens, and above all because of the low standard and the severe uneven exit from the economic crisis, which has been shaking our and other countries for a long time. Both dissatisfactions were, above all, economical, but they stemmed from disrespect for labour, health, legal, administrative, and other rights of our citizens, which after ten years of change were carried out in 2000, mainly from unfavourable expectations. We think that this growing social dissatisfaction is just creating the largest number of objections and objections and reasons for appeal to the Citizens' Protector, i.e. creating a condition of high responsibilities and a huge job for the Protector in Serbia's rights and freedom. The PUPS is aware that the gap between high standards of respect for human rights, which are entered in the Constitution, the law and other documents and in the everyday life of vulnerable groups, persons with special needs, refugees and displaced persons, unemployed and other persons, do not ideally agree and that there arises a huge number of requests for the Citizens' Protector. If the percentage of issues solved is more than 75%, then at this stage of establishing the function of the Protector of citizens, it is a very high percentage, moreover, they have a very high achievement. The PUPS parliamentary group finds that the task of the managing authority of all levels, and above all of this Parliament, is to reduce the number of addresses to the Citizens' Protector by doing what is necessary together to maintain the social, pension and health care systems that are in the first and most important place and under great pressure from all citizens of Serbia, as well as all other rights of citizens. We are aware that the number of complaints against the Guardian of Citizens is also constantly increasing and tightening. It is certain that there is one degree of lack of effective protection in achieving social rights and all the other first ones. The right to trial within a reasonable period of time, the right to peaceful enjoyment of property, the right to respect dignity, human and civil freedoms by the administration in power, as well as the right to its responsible work are certainly the most common cause of addressing the Protector of citizens. Of course, we must all be aware of the fact that the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia is considering the Report of the Protector of Citizens and that, as he does not have a large choice of legal medicines that would immediately and urgently expose far better and better quality protection of the rights and freedom of citizens. In addition, according to Freedom House's 2011 report, we are classified as the top part of the world scale in respect of civil and political rights, which is for every praise. We now have a democratic regime in which citizens can use all their political and civil rights in free elections. In this respect, Parliament has made a key contribution to the adoption of the Law on Associations of Citizens, the Law on Elections, the law on the blank resignations, etc. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that the Citizens' Protector has done a huge job in all areas of his competence, activity and responsibility, and that the results of his work are not only a product of the European directive, but the work and work of his associates is the result of the redecoration of our society and the community and the result of his personal contribution. We are aware that the introduction of the Citizens' Protector created a more significant and better social climate for work, not only for the Citizens' Protector, but also for the entire civil, civil and public social sector. This assembly has given, and this is an uncontested, much better legal framework for work and the NGO sector, and especially for the work of the Citizens' Protectors. It is evident, with the efforts of the Citizens' Protectors, as well as the authorities of the administration, as well as the large involvement of the civil sector of NGOs created a much better position in the media than in earlier years. However, better social climate, better legal frameworks and a better position in the media are not yet enough to achieve the maximum authority of the Citizens' Protector to preserve all protected values of the nation, national minorities, religion, family and personality. The PUPS parliamentary group will do everything to strengthen the role of citizens' protectors to the level of absolute and responsible authority with higher levels of authority than so far and with motivation -- safe citizens in Serbia's security. In an effort, but also in the need for this report to be truly comprehensive and to meet all the standards of ensuring the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens, it is necessary to establish a clear diletation line of separation, the responsibilities of the legislative and parliamentary authorities and the adoption of rules and regulations in this area and of the executive and judicial authorities to apply them. We will surely all agree that there is still a need for education and parliamentarians and representatives of the administration of various ministries and representatives of the judiciary who, through the division of any degree and form of government, must first respect that line of separation by degree of responsibility, by degree of authority, but also by the degree of jurisdiction and political power they have. All of them together with the Protector of Citizens must daily oppose all kinds of brutal disregard for the law. I think that both we as a party and as a parliamentary group in this regard have shown maximum readiness in the interest of achieving the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens in Serbia. First of all, by a huge push to preserve the pension and disability insurance system and its further reform, our country's social systems, but also in all others from judicial to educational. The 2010 Citizens' Protector Report is a comprehensive and thorough document that informs the public, the National Assembly, the state authorities and the non-governmental sector of the overall state of human and minority rights in the Republic of Serbia, and not only the state of affairs, but also the quality of the citizens' rights before the authorities and organisations that have jurisdiction, state, political and judicial power and which apply all the regulations in force in the Republic of Serbia. The report has managed to present all of the most significant aspects in achieving the function of the Protector of Citizens and all of this in accordance with the principle of responsibility for public affairs. At the same time, however, the report noted the necessary needs of change in the public sector, which would improve the achievement of human and minority freedoms and rights, all of which would have to contribute to a more quality relationship between citizens and authorities. The PUPS parliamentary group is not happy that 8,500 citizens have addressed the Citizens' Protector and have filed over 2,600 formal complaints, with a large number of procedures in place to control the legality and regularity of the public administration's work. This means that the Citizens' Protector and his team have a huge job and that some things don't work properly, and everyone would be happy if no one spoke to the Citizens' Protector because then we would all be in full legal protection. We agree with the fact that changes in needs and in the understanding of the public administration are to carry out the tasks and tasks entrusted to them, but also in the education of citizens to accuracy in the required solutions on any matter and the protection of civil rights and freedoms. Data on the attitude of citizens and public administration in all areas of life and work have been reported. The issues of civil and political rights impose on the revision of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information, while the Law on Citizens' Associations gave the most answers to a number of outstanding issues that had been opened earlier in this area. A large group of issues in this report are related to the protection of the right to a fair trial and to judicial reform. We agree with the Citizens' Protector in the view that there must be no weakness in this particular area in exercising the right to a fair trial, because without it there is a collapse in the exercise of all other rights of citizens, who no longer have anywhere to protect themselves except in court. In addition, the right thing to do is to see that we now have a new problem, which is to execute a court ruling, namely the exercise of the right laid down before the court. The great reform of the judiciary did not immediately produce the expected results, and that is where the Citizens' Protector rightly responds and requires consistency in this most important socio-state matter, i.e. action. The public defender rightly pointed out all shortcomings in the rule of law, as well as shortcomings in respect of human and minority rights. The basic task and the job is for the Citizens' Protector to publicly point out these shortcomings. As part of its capacity and competence, the PUPS Group responded immediately to these shortcomings, and above all to issues of blank resignations, restitution issues, insufficient capacity and insufficient coordination of the administration. We have responded in particular to all indications by the Protector of citizens to discrimination against vulnerable groups, to certain shortcomings in media freedoms, as well as to any corrections made by international public bodies relating to the control function of parliament in society and state. In the process of adopting the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Military Services of Security, and the Law on the National Assembly, we supported all the arguments made by the Protector in public in order to protect the right to privacy, as well as the protection of procedures prescribed in these areas. Perhaps in the area of establishing freedom of opinion and expression, we have had objections when introducing this area into formal frameworks necessary for the development of free opinion and free research in our country. We were not disturbed by the views and recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors, but rather by the legitimate fear of the abuse of electronic media funds through various blogs, forums and websites, which unpunishedly place lies, slanders and abuse of the right to think and express one who has been informally and formally attacked, and cannot be defended by the presentation of counter-arguments. We are sure that everyone must agree that this is done by certain electronic media, but also by others, where it is often impossible to determine the author and responsibility for the false, slandered or offensive statements. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that a huge contribution has been made by the Citizens' Protector on the basis of media freedom and freedom of speech through his timely reactions to the public. On the other hand, the responsibility for media freedoms and freedom of speech to public authorities has the media themselves. Often, journalistic ethics, or legitimate rights and the complete truth about those reported by the media before they respect the assumption of innocence and who sacrifice such public figures for greater circulation or greater ratings. The public defender rightly reacted and publicly warned that this way individual and social tolerance towards criminals, crime and criminals are unwittingly increasing. All together, we must do everything possible to reject with such a display of immorality, crime and crime a new model of behavior that attracts great attention, and does not create an even stronger negation of such behavior, but creates a negation of universal values based on human society and human rights. The PUPS Group will do everything to protect, together with the responsible authorities of the state and society, at least a minimum of citizens' dignity and will do everything to protect the values that our Constitution has placed in the model and morale of a democratic society, deeply opposed to further commercialisation of everything that surrounds us. The PUPS parliamentary group has made it clear that it will support all activities of the Citizens' Protector to prevent further delay in the adoption of the restitution law, in order to stop the violation of property rights and elementary laws on the return of property to previous owners. It can no longer be claimed that Serbia has a lack of political determination to execute the restitution, and in particular there is no capacity for all restitution operations in a proper and efficient manner. Our party will provide the necessary logistics and political support, not only in the adoption of this important law, but also in its further application. While it is necessary to return 36,000 agricultural land, 80,000 forest land, 3,700 building land, and 3,000 buildings, etc., it is clear that it is our great interest, but also a great responsibility to provide maximum support for the application of this law, in order to preserve all human rights and prevent a large number of traumas that would arise on that occasion. The Citizens' Protector's report included a comprehensive review of the activities carried out in the field of protection of social and economic rights, with particular reference to violations of labour rights, abuses of supplementary work in health care and the resolution of the rights of refugees and displaced persons. In the area of social and economic rights, our parliamentary group has shown high political responsibility for the system of resolving social and economic rights, it has been practically a first-degree body to address a large number of difficult human and fatal issues. The assessment of our activities, the way in which a large number of problems are solved, is given in the report itself, but in many reports an individual is a group whose socio-economic rights are protected. It is particularly important to us that the Citizens' Protector has succeeded in the area of pension and disability insurance prevents the violation of the principle of good administration, prevents principles. It is not a large number of 184 citizens who have filed complaints about the work of the Republic Fund PIO, given that the Citizens' Protector has successfully completed 47 proceedings, while in 27 cases, citizens have exercised their rights. This is an extremely small number and it is an indicator of certain irregularities in implementing the principle of good governance in the area of PIO. It was first observed in certain cases unfairly long duration of proceedings before the first-degree and second-degree bodies of the Fund, noting that it was only one branch and that the objection of the Civil Protection Officer was successfully removed, unscheduledly keeping the parent records, as a phenomenon present in certain parts of the body that should possess orderly documentation. However, it is known that all social, political and economic events have passed through these areas and left a series of negative phenomena, including this phenomenon. According to the function of the Citizens' Protector, an update was made on the keeping of the parent records in cases where possible, i.e. that the records were kept and found. There is a perceived problem of the lack of individual acts that are necessary to address the rights and obligations of citizens, to which the Citizens' Protector rightly indicates. The act does not contain all the laws on the prescribed elements, and this following the challenges of the bureaucratic off-force action requires until the necessary documents are provided. The period of waiting for a solution to be corrected with a sufficient number of laws of the prescribed elements is sometimes long, sometimes short, but is not only in the hands of the competent authority of the Republic of PIO. The protection of citizens rightly responds when no assistance is provided to a party. Whenever the Citizens' Protector pointed out cases like this, the administration authorities reacted relatively quickly to prevent further difficulties in the position of an ignorant citizen. The protection of citizens rightly notes in this report that there are not only individual problems of the protection rights of citizens, but there are also general problems related to payments to groups and categories of citizens, such as the payment of pensions for Serbian citizens who have acquired pension abroad, and to the greatest extent in the former republics of the SFRY, such as Slovenia, BiH, Croatia, Macedonia and Montenegro, then the problems of military personnel representatives in other countries, etc. The protection of the rights of these citizens is being resolved at the level of the Republic and of interstate relations. The protection of citizens has specifically dealt with the work of the administration authority, with the processing of the rights of good administration, the codes of good administration, the reform of state administration, legalisation, etc. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that the Citizens' Protector has given a comprehensive analysis of respect for the rights of children, protection of the rights of members of national minorities, as well as the right of persons with disabilities, rights of gender equality, rights of people deprived of freedoms, as well as an assessment of the position of civil society organisations. The PUPS Group fully accepts the Annual Report of the Citizens' Protectors, with a general finding, that there is significant progress in the protection of human rights in all areas, from its jurisdiction, that its role is significantly strengthened in our society, but that the powers are insufficient, as well as that the state and society have now created a better climate for its operation, that it now has a better legal framework and a better position in the media, which is the basis of its authority on what has been done, based on the results achieved and on personal courage and ability, with its team standing in defense of guaranteed human rights of citizens in our country. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that such a report from parliament and from the executive authority requires even greater responsibility and even greater activity to improve the position of citizens compared to the authorities of all levels. In this respect, the Assembly must enter into its Rules of Procedure provisions on co-operation with the Citizens' Protector and other independent control bodies. The Assembly will have to provide regulations, regulations, directives in order to introduce co-operation with the Citizens' Protector into the code of good administration by amending Article 50. The Law on Culture, with respect for the principles of national composition and equality in employment, in creating conditions for the participation of citizens' protectors in budgeting, in creating conditions for effective protection of civil society organisations. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that, apart from parliamentary authority and executive authority, the government must create conditions for a better framework for the functioning of the Citizens' Protectors...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58397	Thank you, 20 minutes. Thank you. Before I give my word to the next designated representative, MP Zeljko Ivanji, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 18.00 hours and that during today's working day, we will begin the search in detail on the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on the selection of local committees, but that we will not work longer than 19.30 - 19.45, depending on the pace of the debate and then we will continue the debate in particular, or the debate on amendments tomorrow. MP Zeljko Ivanji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58398	Thank you. I am pleased with the concept of the report, but certainly there are serious objections or serious observations to which we must react, not only as an institution, but as a society. Of course, it is kind of easier to change institutions or to have legislative activity that is expressed here in Serbia, which is strengthened, but until the change of society itself, that is to say, introducing into the right system of values needs to pass the time. We're all aware of that. In any case, on opening certain human rights issues, there is certainly a certain shift. Some of the issues in the past have not even been allowed to be opened, they are now open, we have a reaction to a part of society, but certainly the state must react when minority rights, minority groups, national minorities are threatened, the state must react with a set of law enforcement, or a reaction to those who have committed incriminal crimes. We can also see in this report that there is a deficit institution, but that there is an individual's strength, which is seen in the reports, not only yours, but also a report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as well as the Trustee for the availability of information of public importance. So what I've always claimed is not enough to have an institution that's established by law, which is normized, whose rights are defined, but we have to have strong individuals who are willing to speak openly, speak publicly about certain topics, without any denial. It can be said today that in Serbia it is courage. I'm grateful to you, as well as to the other trustees. As for certain elements of this report, certainly what I am interested in is protecting equality, or banning any form of discrimination. I always think that sentence from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights." However, what is unfortunately not only a trend in Serbia, but a global trend can be said, we have not far removed in respect and consistent application of this declaration. We need a fight against discrimination in which we must all be involved, that is clear. Why is this important, especially in Serbia? Because, let's say, Roma were banned from swimming in the pool because Roma, because the cab driver refused to transport an old woman who was having difficulty moving because she was wasting time helping her get in the car, because before she started her work relationship, the employer orally recommended that she not become pregnant in the next two years. So this is a question that I particularly want to apostrophe, given that certain indications have come to me, but unfortunately there is no evidence, there seems to be no willingness to talk about it publicly or to you, given that there are even indications that there are written agreements between the employer and women who conclude working relationships. We also need it because the owner of a restaurant has banned access to a disabled person because, he says, the other guests will feel uncomfortable in its presence – so we need consistent protection of human rights and therefore we need a fight against discrimination. Because my life motto is that being different is the right of the individual, and the obligation of the majority is to respect diversity, to accept it as a fact. And not only that, but also to pay special and necessary attention to such a person. Freedoms on paper are totally worthless if the state can't or won't protect the people they're threatening when they want to make their freedoms come true. It is true that we have a different role in the media, as it is true that there are different comments, and it is true that blogs make different lies. Of course, and it is, in a way, the flow of democracy, but there is certainly a obligation of state authorities to process these crimes where they appear. Of course, you should always speak freely, courageously, and clearly, and represent your position. If, say, at some forum someone tells me, like these days, go to Hungary and talk about it there, alluding to my background, my answer was yes, and if I went there, I would talk about Serbia again because I am a Serb and I want my children to live here. However, there are hundreds of such examples, thousands and, of course, everywhere there is discrimination to react. That is why I also dedicate myself to a chapter on the protection of the right to a fair trial and reform of the judiciary. Of course, we need, in a way, to say freely the State's Attorney's Office's reform. Because I notice that the prosecution is not adequately responding to certain criminal acts which it is required to act on official duty. It was a deficit in earlier cases, we're familiar with that. What is important and necessary is to ensure the education of judges in the field of human rights, also public prosecutors, lawyers. You've properly apostropheed it in your report. Also, in respect of human rights and in the area of protection against discrimination, which will help them to understand the essence and consequences of certain types of discrimination, so that they do not happen to act on criminal charges or to allow the judgments of violent people to characterise them as characterized young people, which is likely to make it easier for them to commit serious physical harm. This was the case with the cameraman of a television show, where the judge said it was a character young man. I'd like not to hear or read something at the forums or not hear a sentence from the judges, because if such a man, who has been sentenced to a sentence that I can say is ridiculous, that is my right as a MP, and I'm going to say about it a little later, anyway, that at least in a sentence he doesn't have to qualify this man, a young offender, unfortunately a young offender, as a characterized young man. Right through your report, we can see on the scanner the state of our society. We need to improve every form of fact to the adverse consequences in society that can primarily lead to discrimination. The problem is also too often that the state authorities treat citizens completely. In the end, the citizen is frustrated with the failure of state authorities, and as for the right to a fair trial and the right to trial within a reasonable period, I can say that this is indeed a major problem for Serbia, given that the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg will surely respond to the fact that court proceedings take more than ten years here, not even tens of years. When we talk about a frustrated citizen, you have a difficult situation for a society that a citizen in fact, taking into account the theory of a social contract, is breaking up in some way a contract with the state and acting the way he thinks it's right. What do we have as a consequence? That a woman who's frustrated with the length of court proceedings with an axe breaks glass in court and with a brownie on her lips. It's actually the tragedy of our society, the reaction of a citizen who acts in impotence, but again with a coffee on his lips and deals with the state. As far as the right to privacy is concerned, this right is often violated in Serbia. This is due to the system's traditional detention, whether it's public enterprises, whether it's security services, mostly. In public enterprises, this is due to their monopoly position. It's self-sufficient, self-sufficient, and violent behavior. As far as personality data is concerned, that's what we were talking about when he was the Commissioner for Public Information. We know what happened to the abuse of video surveillance footage. You have properly apostrophed the problem of video surveillance which otherwise apostrophe and the Council of Europe with their resolutions often as an illicit interference in citizens' privacy. What's important, I also want to draw your attention to that, that's a question, and you've also noticed, but this is important. As far as BIA's conduct is concerned, I think that BIA is in some way misreading sublegal acts in order to obtain personality data. So there's some famous regulation on the security of the Assembly, I don't know exactly what it's called, you're going to check it out, where from this regulation BIA draws data on someone who's capable of performing a certain function, which I find unacceptable, and I think it's totally broad interpretation inadmissible, that regulation. As far as media freedoms are concerned, I want to apostrophe something you didn't report, and I think you should brag about it. It's an interpretation of the famous member of 336. Criminal code, unauthorized public commentation of court proceedings. I accept the mistake of voting for that member of the law, given that I consider him inadmissible. It's my right. Your finding that you will take hold of every medium that is prosecuted by this point of the Criminal Code is quite correct, given that I too have become a victim of that member in the meantime because Bogoljub Karic has sued me for public commenting on judicial proceedings, because I said it is not right for a man to flee from the judicial authorities of this country and that it is unacceptable to prosecute this man or to bring him to trial on criminal charges, which are still filed in 2005 and the length of until the prosecution is inadmissible. Whether someone was motivated by political reasons or not, that's another story, but the consequence of that famous member of 336. is the suit of Bogoljub Karic against me. In the prosecutor's office, I presented the views of the European Court of Human Rights and the CoE on freedom of public appearance, whether it was done by the media or by the MPs, because the Court of Human Rights feels that it is in some way a control of the judicial function, which I really think is absolutely correct and that you may not comment on the course of the proceedings alone, but in principle no one can forbid me to say that I consider a verdict inadmissible. That's my attitude. Someone can take it for granted, someone doesn't have to, but I have the right to say it in the performance of my parliamentary functions. Also, as far as violations of labour rights are concerned, I would like to point out that we've done a lot about both mobbing and mobbing protection. However, the question is whether it will come to life and whether we have individuals who are ready to push that thing to the end again, or whether we will have such a brave citizen who, we have seen, thanks to the media, will still talk openly about the mobbing that exists in some working organizations. As far as the administration is concerned, that's absolutely correct. You said all about it. The fact is my best definition of corruption I came up with, I read it the other day in the paper, the World Bank's head of office says that the more there's a chance for corruption the more there is. Often, the congregation is mistakenly perceived as a place where it is possible to corrupt someone, and on the other hand, the congregation is humiliated as a deficit place where no decisions are made. Corruption is actually hidden in state authorities, and that's clear. As soon as you have more officers who decide on administrative procedure, your solution, you have a chance at corruption. This is a situation even in public enterprises where you have an administrative procedure, for example, assigning a subscription number to "Telecom of Serbia". It's quite clear that there are situations where you have to have a connection to get to a regular phone number. It's the result of this monopoly position that I'm talking about and I'm talking about at the beginning. What is also important and I end up with is a question that is not sufficiently apostropheeded, it is in the report but not in Serbia, it is a question of a person with a mental disorder. What is coming to this assembly is the adoption of a mental health law, so that people with disabilities or persons with mental disorders can separate themselves from persons with disabilities as a special group of people and citizens of this country, given that there are great abuses both with them and in dealing with them. We had the case of the director of one institution who said – well, you want Europe, if there were bars, the protégé wouldn't have thrown another protégé out the window, if it had been beautifully secured with bars, if it had been nicely tied to handcuffs, then he would have been able to light a cigar outside, smoke it, watch a tennis match or don't know what else, and that's the problem solved. However, the problem is being solved in a different way, given that there is something that is positive norms that are currently being ruled out by resolutions and declarations, including the Council of Europe, norms behaviour towards such persons, i.e. that is, the liquid of civilization. It is precisely, given that we are moving towards this civilization, that I think it is necessary that every authority or pillar of state government, together with the trustees, we change this country every day towards a better, more tolerated society that will lead Serbia not only to enter Europe but to return to those European values that it stood on in some long ago period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58399	16 minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58400	Madam Chairman, Mr. Protector of the Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to say something about a report that is in front of us today, and I need to remind you of a few things that are important to remind you of. In 2005, the Citizens' Protector was first introduced as an institute in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the true and real and only democratic government of Vojislav Kostunica. To remind me, the Law on the Protector of Citizens, which was mentioned by the Institute, was then adopted as an independent and independent state body, which was later confirmed by the Constitution and elected by the Assembly, which corresponds to the Assembly. The Ombudsman acts under the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts on the basis of ratified international agreements and generally accepted rules of international law that are so quite selectively applied to Serbia, not to mention this last case when they tried to attach our cultural heritage to someone else. The protection of citizens controls the work of the authorities of state and public administration in areas concerning rights, freedom and the interests of citizens and those based on the Constitution and the law. That is why it is very important to know that this report, which is ahead of us, which I am trying to find, is a report on what the state of justice, freedom and the interests of the citizens of this country looks like. I think it's over 150 pages of text. This is the fourth report. It was filed on March 15th. He didn't go through an emergency procedure in this National Assembly, and we should because what we're getting in this report as material is very important to us who are involved in politics and we know what we should do to the citizens to know how far we've come on this incredible path of success and laurels, as the government boasts. The citizens' protector has the right to propose laws and amendments and additions to the law. We haven't had too many opportunities to talk about it here and see such laws. I'll ask Mr. Jankovic to tell us what's going on with the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. As far as I can tell, this is the only area and the only state body that wants to do this law, which is commendable, because it's obvious that this law doesn't interest the government too much. I have knowledge that this law is written. As long as it's arrived with him and what's done with him, it's very important that we know. What is also visible from this report, is that the Citizens' Protector did not have a permanent place of residence and work but moved from the unkind to the untraceable, that he also had no established service for a very long time, which is also a lack and that can also be understood as a form of government obstruction towards an extremely important independent body which and how it should be regulatory, i.e. should speak of these things that we as politicians do not see in the best possible way. It is a very clear signal to the citizens and to us, too, that the government refers to those who need to protect the rights, freedoms and interests of the citizens. One example of how the government does it best is that, when the 2010 budget was adopted, without the consent of the Citizens' Protector, and the law says that with its consent, the budget for this independent regulatory body has actually been reduced. Here in Parliament, we have had the opportunity to see very often the amendments that the Citizens' Protector sends to the laws that are in the procedure, which are on the agenda of the Assembly. I see very often that my colleagues from the ruling parties are amazed and very often explain these amendments that are very clear. I was also present at the last session when the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System was explored by a minister who didn't even know there was such a position as the Protector of Citizens. I ask the Citizens' Protector to write larger articles in the paper, as the ministers are informed in the newspapers and to explain to us how amendments were meant to arrive at the law, which apparently violates the rights of children in this country, have not arrived, which is why we haven't had the opportunity to pass the law as it should be. The other laws went better. We had a law on military services, the Law on Electronic Communications, let's say, where amendments came in, where the bill significantly violated citizens' privacy rights and where representatives of ruling parties in this Parliament objected to explaining how much you're talking to, where you call your talker or he doesn't come to the privacy of communication, but it's statistical data, and at that time we learned incredibly important things, that the security services don't listen to us, but they collect statistics for the Statistical Office. It should be mentioned that the Constitution stipulates that the provisions on human and minority rights are interpreted unanimously by the practice of international institutions, and when these laws are in question by the European Court of Human Rights, on several occasions, very explicitly stated that the fact that you're talking to, how much you talk to, and when you call it a matter of total privacy of communication and cannot possibly and all that operators collect, it's a matter of privacy of communication. Also, I have to say something very important here. I've had opportunities and read the report Mr Jankovic sent us when he took control of the work of the BIA, but I have to ask the question why that report was also not at the assembly session because it's obvious that it's very important. Mr. Jankovic made recommendations regarding regulations, sublaws and procedures, and it would be important that we had this report right here in front of us. The report is very complex. I really can't cover everything that I'd really like to embrace in these 20 minutes, so I'm going to take a few things that were very interesting to me at first sight, and I'm going to include. One of them is freedom of the media. It is a category that is covered and defined by the Constitution, guaranteed by the Constitution. Let me immediately move to law, to amendments and additions to the Public Information Act, which apparently, when they were brought here in the Assembly, violated the right of the media to freedom. On the basis of the demands of news associations, Mr Jankovic then submitted a procedure to the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality of certain norms under the law itself. The Constitutional Court also responded taxively to all the provisions in which media freedom is violated. In addition, President Tadic, while going abroad, had to deal with the topic. He helped Mr. Jankovic there when he complained that the media was not very fond of him personally and the ruling parties. Mr. Krstic and Mr. Shaper now have to write more and more texts, and fewer journalists want to sign them. Then, abroad he managed to achieve one thing. The effect of that complaint was much greater than your writing of the amendment, Mr. Jankovic. An editor has been removed from the emergency procedure. Since then, newspapers have been writing a little differently. I hope this situation will be covered somewhere by your 2011 report. We see from the report the next thing we know, more and more citizens have complained to the Citizens' Protector. Although, I can see that there are things he doesn't have jurisdiction over, but people in it see hope that some things in this country will be able to help them and will want to deal with them. Because of that, they're getting a growing number of complaints. Every other complaint refers to the so-called so-called. the silence of the administration. Then, to the wrong application of the law, to the slowness of the administration. It's a famous pain, even though the administration is huge. What is very important, the non-compliance of procedures, the non-compliance of procedures is later stated in some other things, and it is very important to mention them. None of the state administration reform objectives outlined has been implemented until the end, according to Mr Jankovic's report. In many segments, this reform has not actually started. I am fully aware of that, that when the minister comes here, Mr Markovic, tells another story, but I am also a citizen who has also been in front of some counters and in front of some institutions, he has received all kinds of answers or has not received answers for more than six months. I'm aware of the state administration's reform. Also, here is one of the ministers who likes to tell us that he has incredibly improved the area he is in charge of, and this is Minister Dulic, when the Law on Legalisation and Similar Things was passed, when the report was post-strupted when mass failures in the conduct of legalisation procedures, destruction of illegal objects and other proceedings related to this issue were discovered. Another area that is very interesting for the analysis is the state of gender equality. Finally, Serbia has brought these system documents. But what the report states is that Serbia does not have the capacity to apply these rules, nor does it have political measures, nor does it have the political will, ultimately, to bring them. We can look at it through a typical example of domestic violence. I don't mean to be wrong, but I think about 20 women were killed somewhere this year. So, the most drastic form of violence. Murdered because there is no communication between the institutions that the state has made. That's obvious, because here in the report it's also listed. There is a great weakness in the exchange of information between institutions. Presumptions for the work of the service, police, health care, welfare, justice in the locale or do not exist, or are not applied effectively enough. Everyone who deals with this subject in a slightly different way sees it and that's clear. They've made a move for the better, but it's obvious that something's not working. The most not working is co-operation between pillars made by the state, and where some decent law is passed, institutions are strengthened, their capacities are strengthened. Obviously, the situation is that we should be neither content nor boastful, but very real. What you wrote here is something we really need to do. I hope one of our colleagues will talk about it. What's even more interesting is that management authorities often apply stereotypes in gender relationships. They consider matters of domestic violence to be matters of privacy. We were really here in this room convinced that it wasn't, that things had changed drastically. Unfortunately, it's obvious they are. Then, to lack clearly defined procedures and measures, standardised procedures, it was given to civil servants that they were self-initiatively very broadly applied when they wanted to do a specific case procedure. It's a dangerous thing, because you have to have really very experienced and very educated state experts who would do it this way. I think it's a very good recommendation that these procedures be fully standardised, that the measurements are given very concretely and that you know when and what is applied. What is also very discussionable, the Citizens' Protector, in a special comment to the UN Human Rights Committee, expressed disagreement with attitude 47. State report on the implementation of the Civil and Political Rights Pact. Otherwise, this 47, those countries that write the report, so Serbia, wrote that all rules in the area of gender equality are being consistently implemented in Serbia and that gender equality is being consistently applied. Based on the research done, based on the report that Mr. Ombucman made, it has been shown that at all levels of state, he is violating the regulations that she has brought herself. Or that there is discrimination against women at all levels. The most drastic example, though not the most drastic example, because there are many more drastic examples, but one of the examples that were in the press was exploited when our delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe had a fully male composition. When the government writes such reports in areas that are very verifiable, then we can think of reports in both directions and presents to its citizens in a way that does not suit the truth. What I'd like to do a little bit more now is protect the rights of the child. It's an area that's very important. I must say that there is a Committee on the Rights of the Child who works well, who has considered and considered reports last year, concerning the rights of the child. I'd like to talk about this more seriously. So I'm asking you a question of this law that I know is being made and I'd like you to say more about this law. According to your report, the most frequent remarks, complaints refer to a violation of the right to respect the best interests of the child. A total of 165 cases. Right to the proper development of the child – 107 cases, protection of violence, abuse and neglect – 79 cases, right to education – 58 cases. I have to apostrophe the issue of inclusion, because I belong to those who feel that it had to be more seriously prepared, before it entered into the process of inclusion, to enter into the law. Unfortunately, children are victims of that system, which is obviously made quite ad hoc. A lot of things change when they happen. I think they're too many victims. Any kid to experience this guy's trauma is too many victims for us to seriously get into all this. And teachers have problems because they didn't get training on time. We don't know if the defecologists are involved in the process or if they're not involved. However, teams are being made, but that's all the moment the need arises. You should've done it more seriously. There are many examples that you point to infringing the right to educate children. I think these examples are enough for each of us to read such examples and to know that the laws we make, when applied on the ground, have many shortcomings. The next thing is the right to social protection and to a proper standard of living. I can't even mention it when I know 300,000 children live on the border right now or below the poverty line. What they are complaining about are centres for social work, education institutions, the Ministry of Education, judicial authorities and local self-government. I have to mention something in your report that you're talking a little bit about. Of course, you don't have direct jurisdiction, but I'd like to ask you to start this issue in public, because it's very important. It's a presentation of children in the media. I have to say, there's been a very good study done for UNICEF. The theme was the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's research conducted by Dr. Snježana Milivojevic and it's called "Children in the Media Mirror". It escalated, in 2009, this topic of child violence and violence against children, and it was most exploited and done the most damage, I think. From my research, I see that some of the things I thought they were, are indeed confirmed by the research process. One of the most prominent issues is the way of presenting the victim of violence because completely without compassion and by a very unprofessional procedure we have come to the point of re-sequenceing the victim, unnecessarily revealing the victim's data, putting so-called. The protection of the identity of the child is, I don't know if I can say the word scrabblely, but I'd like to say that word, because putting that black blindfold over the eyes the same way that it does to criminals is the secondary victim's victim's victim's victim's victim's victim's victim's victim's secondary victim's protection, but it's just the opposite, it's exactly the ugliest way of protection, which is the fear of protection. Of course, the media very often reveals the identity of the child very indirectly, so they give statements to moms, dads, cousins, describing the situation, describing the place where it happened, which, of course, is just as terrible. We notice more and more, I see on other media, not only in the newspapers, that the protection of child dignity is so completely minimized and that children are manifested through a difficult social state or a life tragedy, which can also be a kind of sigma and that sigmatisation is still possible based on other features, such as children distracted by development, or belonging to a group like refugees or something like that. I think we need to be very careful here and we need to really talk about it all the time, so that that media image of the child really comes down to something normal. I see that media abuse of children is not limited, so I read comments from the Report – media abuse of children is not limited by either type or subject of texts, children are equally good in the media and to encourage patriotic feelings, spread fear, or propagating consumption. That's where I'm gonna stop. I'm afraid my time isn't up, but I'll say one thing. It is a good thing, based on our complaints, the RRA finally punished what it calls itself the Public Service of Serbia. I think it's a serious step, and I'd like to see those steps again, because I think that you need this country as an institute, that you're really doing a huge job. Your team that I'm seeing here is obviously not big, obviously you'll be moving a little while longer while you have that space, to take care of it, looking for a lot of resources, equipment. But I hope that the 2011 report will also be ahead of us in this form because it is good and comprehensive. I sincerely hope that we in the assembly, of course it's not up to you, to see your report here in a public debate on B.I. control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58401	National MP Kenan Hajdarevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58402	The President-in-Office, honourable Mr Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human rights is a priority for the LDP because we are aware that there is no political or economic progress without respect for the civil, cultural, religious, economic and other rights of every citizen in Serbia. There are many things we can talk about when we talk about human rights, but what is necessary at the very beginning is that a democratically arranged society is characterized by a clear system that can react effectively when the rights of any individual, any minority, are threatened, when I say minorities, I mean all kinds of minorities that exist in Serbia. The LDP has always supported the work of independent regulatory bodies. Also, the LDP is the only party that has, within its composition, the Human Rights Commissioner who actively co-operates with independent regulatory bodies in the process of solving those problems that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are telling us. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the LDP supports the Citizens' Protector's Report, and we also support everything that the Citizens' Protector worked with his associates in the previous period, but what this report at least has in us, in LDP, is one, we can say, the paragraph that best speaks about our relationship, when it tells us all the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the Citizens' Protector. It is said – it is not harmful that criticism and suggestions from foreign international partners are accepted as friendly and constructive, the Citizens' Protector is convinced that in order to achieve the established state-political goal of EU membership, and above all, for the faster achievement of citizens' rights, it would be much better if the European partners in Serbia could say certain failures, but domestic control institutions have also identified and, according to their findings, correct themselves, which would mean that the system is institutionally functioning. Instead, the European Commission has identified the gaps and further raised concerns over lack of respect for mandates, independent control and regulatory authorities and bodies. I think this passage of this sentence best shows another immature attitude towards independent regulatory bodies, i.e. the immature attitude towards the concrete Protector of citizens. It is simply incomprehensible that by reading this report to the citizens' protectors, we are in a situation that a president of the municipality's parliament, say Pryboy, can ignore what he has been asked to do and instruct the Protector of the citizens. In this way, one message is given to citizens that someone who is the president of the Assembly has a stronger right than someone who is the Protector of citizens, or representative of an independent regulatory body. We have to change that relationship. Also, it is simply unacceptable that when we talk about national councils in the Report, you say that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, following a public warning because of the failure of the obligation to inform the Protector of the rights of the citizens in the law established and set a deadline, of the implementation of the recommendation. One ministry, in this one ignoring way, looks at the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors, especially in the case of a ministry that was the former Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. When we talk about human and minority rights, about national councils, I would also like to commend the role, that is, of the Citizens' Protector's reaction to events that took place almost a year ago in the elections for the Bosniak National Council. The reaction of the Citizens' Protector made it possible for those tensions raised by the violation of the rights by the minister, then Minister Ciplic, to collapse, which is perhaps the most important that one national minority, members of one of the national minorities, kept their trust in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. This is what the Citizens' Protector may have contributed most in the previous year, at least when we talk about a national minority, or the National Council of Bosniaks. I remind you that then Minister Ciplic directly intervened in the election of a national council, the Bosniak National Council, broke the law, broke the constitution. As Protector of the Citizens, you made clear recommendations, but as far as we know today, there has been no realisation of those recommendations that you made, and this is extremely relevant to the amendment of the National Councils Act. Today we are witnessing that Minister Markovic, who has taken over the human and minority rights portfolio, announces the held elections for the National Council of Bosniaks, and that nothing has been done according to the recommendations you have made. I think you and you, as a republican congregation, must clearly point out that there are no new choices until those things are changed and those shortcomings that you've been talking about, which, among other things, the LDP has been talking about in the past year. Also, in the report here you are talking about hiring members of national minorities in public services. However, I think that the percentage of public service employees, members of national minorities, are not at an adequate level. I am particularly referring to the judicial authorities and the authorities and the police and the military and that in the coming period we must do much in this direction in order to restore trust in the functioning of this state. Because if certain national minorities are closed because of the name and last name of certain institutions of the Republic of Serbia, then we are thus destroying the integrity of all institutions in the eyes of that national minority. When you talk about the laws on churches and religious communities, we support you and we think it is really necessary to amend this law on churches and religious communities, in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, because it is impossible to build a democratic civil society, and that there is such a difference in the treatment of religious communities with us in the Republic of Serbia. You are also familiar and I did not see it in this report that by violating the provisions of the Law on Religious Communities and Churches there is discrimination, i.e. violations of the human rights of certain members of religious communities. I'm talking about the Islamic community too much. By breaking the Law by the Ministry of Faith and creating parallel forms, by creating a parallel Islamic community, we have come to a problem, that we also have a problem with believers. Over 30 believers, I'm sure you're familiar with it, because it came to you, asking them to do the work they're trained for, for which they have diplomas but because of the lack of political will, they can't do it. Who suffers the most? Children, or disciples, who have a religious background that is not adequate to that criteria prescribed by the Ministry of Education, suffer the most. When we talk about the Ministry of Education and the violation of rights, we just heard from a colleague and the rights of a child, you are often in a situation where your parents appear to you for violation of the rights of children in schools. I think that's a really big problem. I want to point out that if we are talking about human rights, regulatory bodies, we are working too hard to change the education system, or content that children learn in both primary and secondary schools. We cannot go with the content that is adequate to what happened in the 1990s, to go through European integration and to say that we are in the 21st century. There is the most characteristic of our relationship to crime, or to the near past. We need to clear through the education system to say all the bad things that happened in the near past. We must not in any way relativise what has happened and what is most important we must not use the education system, nor the state institutions, to even the victim and the criminal. I think we have to work on it to raise awareness and respect for human rights to a higher level. Also, when you talk about displaced persons, in a chapter where you talk about refugees, displaced persons, you did not write, but I think you are familiar with persons from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who were driven from their hearths during the 1990s and war in BiH, who cannot have the status of refugees or displaced persons by the government of the Republic of Serbia, who do not have the conditions to return to where they lived in the 1990s. This is a huge number of families in the area of the Municipality of Priboj, more than 100, 150 families, which are still refugees in their country, but also this term – "emergents", or "expanded person", is not allowed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, because the term – "emigration" refers to citizens from the territory of the former Yugoslav republics, "internally displaced persons" for citizens from the area of KIM. Also, what I'm saying is that it might be missing in this report, it's one right to call it - third generation rights, it's the right to a healthy environment. We are witnessing that in recent days it has become one of the main issues of a large number of citizens, that you may also have complaints from citizens. I will just point out that in recent months, even in the area of Prepolje, i.e. Brodareva, a group of citizens who oppose the construction of hydrocentrals has been formed to protect the environment and, most importantly, protect their survival in their hearths. We'll talk more about it when the energy law comes, but I think it should be in the report, too, if it's not in 2010 now, it's necessary that it exists in the 2011 report. At the very end, in order to no longer take the time, I would like to say once again that LDP supports the absolute work of the Citizens' Protectors and his associates, to ask that the government and all institutions of the system accept the recommendations made by the Citizens' Protector, that we do not come into a situation where the Protector of Citizens should only remember when it is necessary to correct our external political mistakes, as it was in the event of the Nobel Peace Prize award being awarded, when it seems to me that Prime Minister Cvetkovic tried to abuse your departure at the Nobel Prize. That can't happen anymore. Once again, full support for what you've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58403	Twelve minutes and 20 seconds used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop – Lazić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, Mr Jankovic, you have delivered to us within the legal deadline a very comprehensive and extensive report, which is your legal obligation. So, back in March of the month, but here it was only in July that came on the agenda. Why isn't it before, I guess those who call the sittings and make up the agenda. Okay, it's never too late. This report of yours, which has confirmed a lot of what we have been saying since the adoption of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, observed it with two aspects. On the one hand, you have confirmed our objections and objections that we were making at the time, believing that this regulatory body, as well as many others, will not be effective to the extent that we would like it to be. The numbers speak best of it. On the other hand, I wanted to object to you because you broke the law, and that's Article 10. The law, because you have engaged in some political evaluations in your report, which should not have happened, and I will point out to you in the course of my presentation and examples of it. Because of citizens who, I assume, do not know much about what the Guardian is doing and that they have the opportunity to address him, I must say that you should look after the protection and promotion of human freedoms and rights and that both natural and legal persons, both domestic, i.e. the citizen, and the foreigners. What the law states is that you also care about the rights of foreign legal and natural persons is good, especially because it is the fact that many foreign investors are fleeing Serbia, precisely because they have a problem exercising their rights to state authorities, starting with ministries through local self-government, etc. They say it's no harder to get to the paper so that eventually some company can register and get permits to build and start work. On the other hand, the government keeps talking about how it is necessary to create conditions for both domestic and foreign investors, of course, but somehow they or these parties, so they give them additional stimuli and tens of thousands of euros per employee, just to come. We pay these workers ourselves, so that after a few years they can fire them again and eventually with the capital they created here, because the workforce didn't pay anything, they can get out of here. There were even such examples that they could buy out completely some enterprises, which they do not have in their possession for the time being. Here's to starting with your finding that the growing dissatisfaction of citizens with the work of public administration authorities and respect for their rights, because, you say, the expectations of a decade after the changes made in 2000 are justly much greater. So maybe they were bigger in 2000. But as early as 2003, when Zivkovic's government fell, citizens no longer have any expectations of this government. As it manages to combine and form a government after all elections, it is a matter for those who deal with the political system and various political combinations that those who have received fewer votes succeed in ruling the state and that one is promised before the election, and after the elections, when coalitions are formed, something else is done. Maybe it's something that you should be dealing with, because I don't see that there are worse things than misleading voters who turn their sovereignty over to us, to the MPs, to represent their interests. You also found that growing social dissatisfaction could reach the level of civil and political rights at the moment of the sun, regardless of who is in power at the moment. You seem to be giving us some social unrest. I don't think you're authorized or competent for such a thing, and it's no good to find something like this in the media, because no one in the normal state wants any unrest. We want elections, of course, and to compete in this election in the democratic atmosphere, to win better and not call for unrest of any kind, even though we are aware of growing social dissatisfaction. But that social dissatisfaction should be channeled in one normal way, and that's the election. The constitution has indeed set high standards of respect for human rights, but everyday life is being denied and you of course noticed it, and you have listed some groups that you consider particularly vulnerable, Roma, members of other national minorities, members of sexual and individual religious minorities. These groups are particularly concerned and you explain extensively how the Pride Parade went last year, which I think in a report delivered to the National Assembly, some phenomenon can be stated, but that you're giving an assessment of what who did and where who was supposed to be, it's just not your job. I liked what you said: "citizen" used in your report born neutrally. We gave up on it because everyone is saying – citizens and citizens, but the one who wrote you the report somewhat illiterately explained it, so he said: "bornly neutrally and evenly marks members or members of both sexes". I don't know how those members can be, i.e. Women, both of them. So, members of both sexes. But it got into our ears that male and female members were a grave grammatical error. When you talk about the return of property, I can see that you're dealing with it, that you're pushing for restitution and you're criticizing the government for not doing it yet, but, as far as we can tell, he's in preparation and he'll be on the agenda very soon. You're also talking about the property being returned to religious communities, some, but it's now in the Constitutional Court because there's been an inequality. Indeed, there has been an imbalance in the subjects who are expecting a return of property, but on the other hand, you are citing an example from Novi Sad and you are criticising that the Jewish community has requested the return of two buildings that contain ballet and music schools, I do not really think I can remember, and you are forgetting this reason that you have stated – that everything has stopped precisely because one law is expected. It's a good thing you're dealing with judicial reform. You say you were approached by participants in the competition, or by those judges who were not re-elected in 2009, you say the reasons. You have engaged in this, taken adequate measures, but the High Council of the Judiciary did not comply with the legal obligation to inform the Protector of the implementation of the recommendations. Then what? You have notified the public, the government of Serbia, the Assembly and over. So, where do your intelligence end? Warn and inform the public? That's what the law says, though. You can do a lot more sometimes, but I couldn't tell from the report, not even my colleagues, but given the size of this report, maybe I missed it, that you asked for a shift from one of the officials? This is what you would expect to do, given that you are a non-partisan personality, an independent regulatory body, you can do anything that is in accordance with the law and anything where anyone breaks the law or the Constitution, you should say – popup a bobba. However, you are obviously reluctant to call any minister or president of the municipality, mayor or, God forbid, some agency director by name and last name and take adequate measures. How many criminal charges have you filed? How much did you apply to the judge for violations? I couldn't see it exactly, but you're going to correct me, or you're going to tell me later, because you weren't the leader at today's debate, perhaps considering there's no need, given that you filed a report in writing. I wanted to ask you one more question. You were protecting the right to a fair trial and judicial reform. You were talking about the largest number of citizens of these two thousand and something that came to you, which is very little, 900 you immediately rejected, you solved some 900, more of those who respected you, and before you announced control, they did something. I don't disrespect you, but those who don't respect you, if you understand what I mean. You mentioned that you had several bilateral meetings with colleagues from other European countries, so I wanted to ask you if you found it appropriate to meet with your colleague from the Netherlands, so ask him what conditions are like in Cheveningen, if the detainees there have the right to treatment, if the judiciary is effective in the sense that the rule of reasonable trial is respected within a reasonable period, is it possible that someone could be in prison for eight and a half years without a first-degree verdict, are they even in charge of such a thing, given that it is our citizens? Because here you state as a flagrant example, in fact, in a positive sense you interpret it and state the murder of a foreign citizen in Belgrade, Taton, and that those who are convicted, and we're not sure that those perpetrators have been punished for over 200 years. What about our citizen who died accidentally in Ohrid, and there were those who killed him who got punished for three, four, five years in prison? Did you have any cooperation with them? I am pleased that you have found that the concern for the rights of citizens, i.e. the transfer of the responsibility of the executive authority for the state of affairs in its fields, is transferred to bodies that are naturally supervised, such as yours, and there are other regulatory bodies such as the Commissioner for Public Information, Gender Equality, etc., do not have executive powers, nor legal powers, nor the capacity to do what the job of those who oversee, nor do you tell them – the purpose. It's not their purpose, but if we've already formed, established the Protector of Citizens, that was our criticism when the law was passed, then that was supposed to be his purpose. Otherwise, he's just another item in the budget. Look, these 100 million and something million, how much is it spent on this regulatory body, isn't it small for the state of Serbia, or are you unhappy? I saw from the report how much money you get in the budget, so you got less on one rebalance, so you rebelled, and then they gave you more. If we divide these 70 and some million, as much as you have for wages, it turns out here, every honor to you and your salary, which is at the height of the President of the Constitutional Court, I don't know if I can get your powers and your work to be measured on any basis with the President of the Constitutional Court, whoever it is. I'm talking about an institution, I'm not talking about personalities, maybe you're worth ten times his worth. You're probably worth it. On average, if I calculated that correctly, you're only paying about 100,000 dinars. It's not a little bit. I think you only have one pregnant woman, on maternity leave, I could see that from the amount that's separated from maternity leave. So there's not much young people, there's no women. I particularly carefully read what you wrote in the report on the preventive control of the visit to the Security-Informative Agency and that you made that report, as a special report to the National Assembly, but it was not considered appropriate, since it expected this full report, but you have made observations regarding the constitutional right to privacy and what we have also made a complaint in the adoption of the Law, that not everyone can listen to and listen to us, if there is no decision of the court. You have the same opinion and I support you in the fact that you persist if someone listens to you and if anyone hears you. When you spoke of voting law as a very important right, because without it there is no democracy, you pointed out here the problem of blank resignations, you criticized it, and since you filed the report in March, in the meantime you know a new law has been passed, so these remarks of yours, unfortunately, entered the law, but I'm interested in how that you didn't deal with a little stealing mandate in the National Assembly? We, of course, do not have the authority to oversee the work of the National Assembly, it is clear to me from the law, but if you can deal with blank resignations, electoral law, closed lists, who should be given a parliamentary term from the list, that is to say, that is to say, the law is now resolved, depending on the number of mandates, then from the first to the 57th or 82th, how many mandates we win, that you did not find anywhere appropriate to at least establish yourself in public according to the theft of the mandate, because this is the greatest possible theft. Stealing the will of the voters can't be worse for a democratic society. I haven't heard, nor do you state here anywhere that you've made yourself public according to that. When it comes to media freedom and journalists, you're giving a good cut and a picture here, but you're still getting into politics and you're saying it's a good thing that national security forces are no longer a threat to the lives and safety of journalists... (President: 20 minutes. I'm just finishing this sentence. When was that? As it was in the 1990s, you say. Who defended this government for 11 years to investigate the murder of Curuvija, journalist Panic, etc.? There will be more time in the debate by my colleagues, and I hope that I will have some time to draw your attention to some more things. (President: 20 minutes. ) The report is extensive, and I can’t look back on everything in 20 minutes, but I thought I'd draw your attention to the crucial points.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58405	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want to take part in the debate? The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58406	The President-in-Office, Mr Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will first and foremost talk about whether this report provides sufficient grounds and points to the conclusions on which the National Assembly is to give, to say support for measures to improve the area for which the Protector of Citizens is in charge. When we carefully analyse this report and at the same time keep in mind the legal powers of the Citizens' Protectors, then certainly there are parts of this report that unequivocally show the state of competence of the Citizens' Protectors and, in that sense, I think it is important that we now deal with whether the measures proposed by the committee in charge are adequate and sufficient to improve the situation in this area. Therefore, there should be no illusion that a country that has an institution of protection of citizens for about four and a half years cannot be a country that does not have a lot of problems in the area of protection of citizens' rights. In that sense, no qualifications should be affected by anyone here, and we should all interpret it as a guideline on the way to improving this area and building an institution of the Protectors of Citizens. What is very important to us, especially because of the citizens of Serbia who may not be enough, may even at times be confused to understand the role of Citizens' Protectors, because there is considerable confusion in the public as to what is the responsibility of this institution, I think it is useful to repeat that the Law on the Protector of Citizens has been defined to protect the right of citizens in relation to the authorities of the administration and it is explicitly stated that the Citizens' Protector has no jurisdiction to control the work of the National Assembly, Government, President of the Republic, courts and prosecutors. In that sense, I think that we are building an experience of building this institution together and that no one should be too sensitive, as I say, any criticism in this report is an indication of how to improve this area at the same time, I think we should build and clearly define the competences of each of the institutions. I would like to say that we also have the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, that we have passed the Law on Equality, and that this law, in the jurisdiction of that institution, has given all those issues concerning the protection of citizens' equality against minority and majority groups, not equality against the law, it is unequivocal that the Protector of Citizens is responsible for achieving the equality of citizens against the law. In that sense, I think that we will be able to make more clear about the areas of competence of all these institutions and achieve co-operation together, because I don't think that we will be able to do this without each other. I think there are parts of the report that are a certain measure of my sense of general political qualifications, and I think it's hard for us to come to a conclusion on what is the measure we need to take. Of course, those parts of the report are valuable, which unequivocally point to violations of the rights of citizens, which are made up of the authorities of the administration. What is seen as an institutional, legislative and possibly democratic capacity for institutions in Serbia that would allow citizens to be more protected from injustice, so to speak, which is applied by representatives of the governing body. What is also very important to us is whether we are in the best possible way, here we can conclude what potential legislative initiatives might be together, since we are a legislative body, and we know that under the Law on the Protector of Citizens, the Citizens have the right to launch legislative initiatives, so what are legislative initiatives that we could together launch to remove the legal opportunities that exist within the existing laws for the possible discrimination of citizens in relation to the authorities of the administration. I think that's what we should work on together in the next period. Here I have many findings that are true and that point out that Serbia is a society in transition, that Serbia is a society in economic crisis, that Serbia is a society of major social injustices and that Serbia is a society with extremely small economic capacity that some of the issues listed here as questions of endangering fundamental human rights, to satisfy them in the best possible way. What I'm trying to say again is that I think that a question of political qualifications is not a question from which we can find solutions that can help us figure things out. In this sense, only illustrations can be done for the sake of, issues that suggest the best way to restitution, I think that these are issues that the state solves in accordance with its own economic possibilities and with the need to correct one injustice without doing some new wrongs to some other people. If you allow me just one thing, and I hope you won't take me for evil, I support the report, I support all the grades and we will vote for this report and the proposal measure, because we think, although this proposal is a general measure, so to speak, but it is broad enough and gives sufficient opportunities for the steps that the National Assembly can take along with the Citizens' Protector, in order to continue to improve this area, because we should not forget, this is the most sensitive issue, human rights are the most sensitive issue of every society and the attitude of the state towards human rights is the measure that determines the degree of democracy of a country, so if we are sensitive to each individual and its right to equality before the law, then we are the only truly true democratic society. As long as that is not the case, of course we are a society that builds institutions that will be able to achieve these goals. If you let me, I don't see the argument that this part of the report is here, this is a quote, you state in your report a single quote and you say – a massive, inefficient, unprofessional, corrupt and absurdly expensive bureaucratic apparatus with 30,000 extra employees, a natural ally of incompetent, greedy, criminal authorities in a war against their own citizens. With the best intention of modernising public administration that we reform it essentially, that we make it effective, impartial, when it comes to laws and citizens under these laws, I want to say that with all the shortcomings that we have made as the ruling majority, with all the weaknesses that the government has made and supported, I believe that there is no doubt that we have absolute will to build a society in which we will be the centre of interest of all bodies and of all institutions, its right, its equality, and if we show the inability to achieve everything at once, then maybe it is a good way to jointly determine which order is the best guarantee, and knowing that we cannot do everything at once, that we are going to take a path that leads to every step that leads to the goal of achieving common interest, and that is a full protection of the rights of citizens against the authorities of the administration, which is the responsibility of the Guardian of citizens. We give full support to the development of the Civil Protection Institution and give full support to initiatives that will enable this area to be improved day by day and that every step we take may be greater than even the current capacity of society. What I think may have been to separate this report is a state of consciousness, mentality, heritage and the relationship of state authorities to citizens. It's one thing that we society are at this point, what our mentality is, what our customs are, what the relationship we inherited on certain issues of minority groups, etc., and what is the attitude of the state, its institutions and the authorities to these same issues. I think it's two essentially different things. It's true that we all have a responsibility together to change our mentality, to change people's minds, but I don't think it can be done like that unless we make a clear distinction between what we want to change and what it is and who we want to do it with and who we can change it with. You have our full support to work on this job that's not even simple, it won't be done quickly, but you have to know that without broad support, we have to keep including as many of those who support the construction of one society in which each individual before the law and before the authorities of the administration will be equal, but in relation to others it will be equal, but also the other will be equal. Therefore, once again, we are at your disposal to analyse together what are the legal restrictions that prevent or disable to a full extent the legal jurisdiction of the Protector of the rights of citizens on the one hand and on the other hand, which are the measures that we can take together, or which measures you can take with the support of the National Assembly, in order to improve this area. Once again for the very end, if there is no recognition for those who are willing to change and under great risks, then I fear if they are constantly exposed to criticism, because society is not perfect, that those who will not deal with these issues will come instead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58407	Thank you. We are moving on to participants in the debate according to the declared People's MPs for a word in a single search on item 2 of the agenda. I give my word to Parliamentarian Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58408	Thank you. Madam President, Mr Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to be a little bit more detained in the part of the report that speaks of the area of the rights of members of the national minorities. I think it's been tried to work this problem out and show it, but there are a lot of general constants that should definitely be defined in more detail. I see that the report particularly treats Roma's problems with justice, because it is the hardest, that position of the Roma. I can see there's also a problem with the Vlach language and the Bosniak language. I agree here that the problem and position of minorities outside Vojvodina is at some lower level than the minority situation in Vojvodina at all. I do not think that the problem of Albanians is more explicitly presented in this report, and it is the most difficult after Roma because, ultimately, during the course of 2010 to which the report refers, we have a dramatic problem of seeking asylum in EU countries where Albanians from these areas – Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, in addition to Roma. For what? Because of the lack of perspective for normal life, which means that we have a discrepancy between constitutional and legal guaranteed rights and what is in practice. In Albanians, we have a drastic discrepancy. It's not just that finding, that there's a sense of discrimination in minority members, it's a fact state, a reality, not just a feeling and frustration on the psychological side, but a real reality on the ground. I think there are a number of problems, in addition to what was mentioned in the Roma case, but for the first time, Albanians have appeared with the problem of legally invisible citizens, which has never been before, and this is the problem of displaced and evicted persons. As you know, in the offices of the year it's quite intensely reported. I also think in light of the list that's about to be a very sensitive situation. You know that in the 2002 census, the Institute has already found that most minority members have quite a reduction, and Albanians have the most sensitive and significant reduction in the list. I think it will prove that, in the meantime, we have an even more drastic reduction of members of the Albanian national minority and that this process is happening intensively, not only because of the lack of recognition of diplomas, which, if you have already had something more concrete, had to find places in this report because, in addition to that period 1991-2001, when the diplomas of the University of Pristina were also not recognised, which in practice had far-reaching, very negative consequences, we have this new period of three-year period which is also very negatively expressed and if we solve it in the future, this period will not leave much of the consequences on the ground, because it's massively going away, people end up in their own cost of study, that they should work and that right of work is being denied because of this political moment of not recognising these diplomas that they won not only in Pristina. I've been trying for five years to convince people that many schools in Tirana are not recognised in Serbia and that there are a lot of incomprehensible obstacles that make it impossible for young people to work where they were born, where they should work, and that they have to leave jobs and go to either Kosovo or around the world because they have no prospects for employment, for a normal life. In this report, it must have been regulated and the questionable people who die and do not exercise basic human rights because if they have done part of the working century in Kosovo, not to speak whole, they are failing, but also a part, a year, two, three, four, they are not being recognised and only by Albanians. This does not happen with members of another national minority, but only Albanians have not yet been recognised in Kosovo. I received some answers from Minister Ljajic and he promises when it is settled with international organisations or who knows after how many years that it will be resolved and then it will be put in an ad act. What about people who die and do not exercise their basic human rights? You have children who were born before 1999 at the birthplaces of Kosovo, which they see tormented by the centres of Serbia from Vranja to Jagodina, to Kragujevac. For each copy of the birth, each copy of the citizenship must leave twice for days to wait to get to that document. Imagine, we have now come to get a copy in each municipality in five minutes, but a copy of these two personal documents in the home units of the services transferred from Kosovo in 1999 is waiting there for days. There's corruption at the highest level and there's nothing to do about it. I have two sons born in Pristina. I have to go to Nis, and for my sister-in-law, I have to go to Kragujevac. I need it all day, and it takes the rest two days and a half weeks, two weeks, to get to one document, so there are a series of serious violations of basic human rights that have never been mentioned here. As far as the National Council Act is concerned, I think it has to be, it's not just the municipal level...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58409	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58410	At the highest level, the laws of national councils must be harmonised with the Law on Education, especially with the Information Act because we have a large range. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58411	The People's MP Bojan Mladenovic has the word, followed by MP Bojan Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, in this annual report we received, says that the Protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is an independent and independent state body. The principle of independence stems, normally, and the principle of independence, i.e. it prohibits anyone from affecting their work and actions. I'm asking the Guardian of the Citizens - is that right? Because here, as you wrote on page 33 -- independence, working conditions, there's a lot that the government doesn't help work, but rather defuses the work of the Protectors in some way. First of all, you stated that the Citizens' Protector had first moved into an adequate space, although it is still temporary, as it stands here, for the fifth time in a row. So you move five times. However, it says here that this was the last one that took place in May 2020. Probably a printing error. It's probably 2010, I guess. It also states that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without notice and without your consent, has proposed budget rebalances, where you have been reduced the amount of funds for your operation. Otherwise, the law does not allow the government to propose a budget, nor does a reduction of the citizens' budget without its consent, which has been done this time. That error could have been corrected by budget rebalance. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. The government also refused to make it possible to obtain equipment from the budget reserve, as it stands, which the burglar stole from the interim rooms of the Citizens' Protectors in New Belgrade. Then it continues to say that the MUP refused to provide that space in an adequate manner. Then, on the salary, it was already the words of the Guardian of Citizens and Trustees. After all of yours, to say the parts of the report, it can be concluded on this basis that the government doesn't help so much the protection of citizens if you move five times, if you don't have adequate financial resources. This leads to the government getting better at your work than it's helping. The question of your independence arises, and normally, how much does the government affect the efficiency of your work? Also, the report said that around eight and a half thousand citizens addressed the Citizens' Protector in 2010. What has attracted a lot of attention to me is that in 300 cases, public administration authorities immediately, upon receiving notice from the Guardians to begin control, have corrected the work gap themselves. Is it possible that the administration behaves like that and in over 300 cases nothing would have done to correct their own mistakes if you hadn't shown up and not announced your arrival? I'd like that if you could comment on that. I find this information really surprising. When it comes to civil and political rights, it is normal for the Constitution to guarantee the highest degree, primarily media freedom. It says here that under-quality and inconsistencies, inconsistencies in the media sector, most of the media are linked to certain political parties, particularly political parties that are in power. Normally, this problem should be overcome in the next period. It also states here that we have a problem arising from the non-transparent application of the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. That is, that the line that separates the church from the state is often clouded, despite a constitutional provision that requires exclusively their separation. Also, there are a lot of complaints about the poor work of the judiciary. Citizens often complain of slow and incorrect trials. Citizens complain about the length of the proceedings, the frequent delay in the hearing, the absence of judges from the trial. The justice that comes too late ceases to be justice. It even says that when a citizen comes to a court ruling, a new battle begins for its execution, which is really sad, and for years you try to fight for your justice, and after a few years you fight for your justice, and then there's absolutely nothing since the execution. Public statements from the executive authority's representatives are occasionally made in relation to individual proceedings before judicial authorities that are on the border, as it stands, allowed, or exceed. Representatives of the executive authority often give themselves rights that they do not have and should not have. As far as the judiciary is concerned, judicial reform has abounded with numerous failures. First of all, the decisions on the election, or the non-election of judges, were not reasoned. The candidates were not informed of the facts that led to their presumption of dignity for the post being shot down. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So there were numerous failures in the work of the High Council of the Judiciary. As regards the lack of rights in the rule of law and respect for the human and minority rights to which the Protector pointed out in the annual report and as regards the restitution, position, capacity and non-ordination of the administration, media freedoms, etc., what is interesting, it is said that there are far less echoes in domestic institutions than in international ones. It's just amazing that our institutions are silent about it. I would like to have your comment here, is that because they are in contact with the ruling parties, so they simply don't let all these problems affecting Serbian citizens? They also tend to establish new independent regulatory bodies. They're mostly just on paper. Sometimes, I would say often, by the method of poor copying, as it stands in other countries, incorrectly calling for parallel examples in other countries. Also, we also have a transfer of responsibilities and the executive authorities in their areas, precisely to independent regulatory bodies, which we believe is certainly not right. As far as social and economic rights are concerned, it has been announced that every sixth worker in Serbia does not pay a compulsory pension internship. When it comes to the rights of workers, it states here that most often workers address themselves when they are out of work. They also prove that they worked for a certain period of time and longer than was prescribed by law, compared to those of a year. A large number of citizens in the late years were driven below the edge of the existence, as employers had not paid workers for years and paid a pension internship, which is why they cannot even exercise their full pension right. Also, it happens that the state is working to bring together workers' internships, but it's done selectively again. So, not for everyone, and that's also extremely bad for our employees. The worker also needs to mind his own business, not chase and see if the employer pays him the same contributions all the time. It's simply the job of the state, and we don't think the state is taking enough care of the workers right now, and that workers are always worried about whether they're being paid social and pension insurance. During the previous period, workers often resorted to self-inflictedness, in order to show the dramatic situation they were in. Simply, it was the only way they could get attention to their problems in their companies. When it comes to refugees and displaced persons, it also says that Serbia is, unfortunately, the first in Europe in the number of refugees and displaced persons. A large number came from BiH, Croatia and KIM. They can't exercise their rights here. The question arises – how and how is Serbia the first in number of refugees in Europe? We also have a case in The Hague, that is mainly tried by Serbs. I guess that's one question for you in that direction, too. Did you, on your own initiative, do you, seeing in this report that you have been acting on your own several occasions, have done something about the citizens of Serbia in the Hague case? When it comes to public administration reform, it says expert Ljiljana Tatic, as she described and is said to be – a massive, inefficient, unprofessional, corrupt and absurdly expensive bureaucratic apparatus with 30,000 extra employees, a natural ally of incompetent, greedy and criminal authorities in the war against their own citizens. We have often brought up this problem, this surplus of unemployed that the parties that are in power often employ their political staff. In this way, a surplus of unemployed is created, and thus it is created that unprofessional and irresponsible persons are employed in certain functions. When it comes to legalisation, they have also missed large, especially when it comes to the destruction of illegal objects. Unfortunately, there was a selective collapse in Serbia. For some, he was not. The rights of children are unfortunately threatened frequently in Serbia, children with disabilities talk, children who are distracted in development, children without parental ageing. It is noted here that children mostly of the Roma population often beg in the streets, and in Serbia it is clear in the Law that under 15 children's work is absolutely forbidden, but the state has never done anything in this respect. When it comes to persons with disabilities, they face problems both in education and in employment, achieving other rights, also in an effort to provide them with the necessary treatment and assistance, it is simply amazing that the state often ignores their needs, and most importantly when it comes to helping, to meet and provide them on time. A large number of prisoners in Serbia do not have a bed, sleeps on the floor, stays in wet rooms, without natural light and air, poor living conditions, absence of any perspective in the condemned, have no opportunities to deal with sports, culture, art, etc. And what I would especially like to point out, which you have put in place – it is necessary to create conditions for the return of as many citizens as possible with psychic intelligence and interference in the natural environment. In this way, enable them to, especially when it comes to years of imprisonment, when they return to freedom to provide them with adequate access and thus, to prevent them from doing the same or similar crime in any way. It is particularly interesting, the Citizens' Protector has suggested that the performer of Albania's Simeon serve the Albanian public as an independent and complete investigation without political consideration and connotation, when it comes to organ trafficking. I'd like to ask you a specific question. Did you get any answer and what was the answer? Also, the Citizen's Protector insisted that state authorities and public institutions should not deal with employers who misrepresent their employees. Here you absolutely have the support of the SRS. We are repeatedly talking about parliament that the government of the Republic of Serbia allows respect for precisely those companies that do not pay neither wages nor contribute to these workers and that simply must be put in the way. The authorities have a legal obligation to co-operate with the Citizens' Protector, enable them to access their premises, make available all the information they have, regardless of the degree of secrecy. In this regard I ask you a question – how much is this respected? How many of your authorities are going to meet you? Do they give you accurate information? Do they give you information on time or do they often resort to giving you much later? Here are the individual problems, which is how it happened to the Justice Department that one request was even lost, that for a year and a half they didn't know where the request was. When it comes to health care, there are quite a number of examples of how basic rights are violated, inadequate treatment and surgery often occurs to the death of patients, that no one is responsible for it, protection of patient personality data, is not taken care of enough, it also happens that the files are not properly kept, that they are often lost, that they cannot be found etc. Appeals from KIM territory. It says – The Protector has no opportunity to act directly on the entire territory and KIM region, which is under international control. Did you ask for government support when it comes to going to kim and everything else about kim? Did you seek government support and what was their answer? Police detention is often carried out in rooms that are unconditional, abandoned, small, low, without windows, any addition to natural light, unproven, without direct access to fresh air, without heating, no blankets, no mattresses, no toilets and liquid drinking water, several hours of face retention in non-conditional rooms endangers their personality and dignity, and also in custody is a similar situation, in prisons staying outside often only hours of work per day, although regulations, as minimum require two hours. There are no adequate conditions for physical activity, there are no separations or criminal punishments from the convicted, the diet is uniform, the medical examinations are casual, the usual therapy parts are non-medical staff etc. When it comes to their voting rights, we must also point out that in the May 2008 elections, prisoners did not have the basic right guaranteed by the Constitution, which is to choose their local municipal councils. Also, they're often threatened by the rights of pregnant women, maternity mothers. You've had a lot of demands to defend their rights. Protecting children, ineffectiveness in the execution of court decisions in cases of child trust, one of the parents after divorce, is one of the biggest problems most often threatened by the psychological development of the child. What concerns is no co-operation between the judicial executives of the police and the Social Labour Centre. Also, there is a question of child protection against inappropriate advertising. So I don't owe any more, in the end, what's interesting during 2010, so the Citizens' Protector had eleven thousand contacts compared to the 8700 that were in the previous year. So, for 28% more, it is a data that indicates that management authorities are not doing their job properly, and the basic rights of citizens are often compromised. The state is unable to care enough about the rights of the child, maternity, pregnant, persons with disabilities, workers, prisoners, refugees, displaced persons, etc. Serbia needs a new government that could solve citizens' problems, protect Serbian citizens. Serbia needs a new government that would be unsuspecting, non-criminal, fair, wise, responsible, serious, consistent, professional, who would work primarily in the interests of Serbian citizens, and Serbia needs such a need for a administration that is not self-versive, as you often say in this report. It is the administration that would be open to the citizens of Serbia and exclusively according to their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58413	18 minutes and 40 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been sent by Radica Jocic, followed by MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr Jankovic, in his 2010 Work Report, you have stated that 8500 citizens have come to you for the whole year, which only indicates that citizens are not yet sufficiently addressed in the jurisdiction of the Citizens' Protector and that he has all the role to play, so we hope that in the future, a number of citizens will address you, although this is not good. Of the 2600 formal complaints, you have initiated 925 procedures, and over 1900 procedures have been completed. It is good that you first launched the constitutionality assessment procedure for any law and that you had amendments tabled on the draft laws proposed by the Government. In short, I'll look back only on some of the areas in your report. For example, for starters, the area of civil and political rights, where you deal with free elections. I'm surprised you didn't look back, although it's recently been possible for the abolition of the blank resignations to allow the purchase of councilors in local parliaments, which will lead to chaos once a new power is formed under this law. You also pointed out that the Law on Citizens' Associations is being implemented well. I would say briefly that the Law on Citizens' Associations was passed in 2009 and that you have looked back here at its application since then. Some media have passed on the dissatisfaction of the DS by implementing this law because they felt that since 2009 local environments had to make much more use of this law, to form associations, to apply to ministries and other donors, so to speak, to get funds to solve citizens' problems at the local site. Even the media reported that DS had drawn attention to its committees at the bar that such a possibility existed and that it needed to be used as much as possible. Of course, this points to the start of the campaign and the possibility of getting money for the upcoming campaign for local and any other election, of course. You pointed out that there is a need to take care of the protection of the right to a fair trial and trial within a reasonable period of time. It is interesting here that this reasonable period cannot be precise because the use of such a term still leaves the possibility of stretching that deadline as it suits whom it suits. Once again, I would refer to the fact that the justice that comes is too late to stop being justice, and that, of course, there are a lot of problems with the period after the verdict, when it becomes enforceable. You were also involved in judicial reform and re-election. I agree that there was a lack of transparency in this process, because we have not even been able to figure out what these were criteria for re-election of judges. On page 10, you say, "unnecessarily, the problems in the exercise of human rights are not more effective by applying existing laws, but by writing new ones. The non-implementation of regulations cannot be continuously justified by their imperfection." I agree that this government, as well as some previous ones, is engaged in law-making, which does not contribute at all to this regulation being good and precise. The more laws I get, the more dissuasion and the less chance these laws can be applied. On page 11, in the area of the right to privacy, you say that "the way in which the documentation of the application of special procedures and measures is organised is such that possible abuse is recorded and the perpetrators of abuse can be identified". It's not the goal of the perpetrators of abuse identifying themselves, is it? I suppose it's the purpose of all the laws to avoid that abuse at all? As for media freedoms, I agree with the conclusion that in many cases journalists have taken over the role of inefficient state authorities. I would, of course, refer to Insider, where many of the data that the state authorities were supposed to be dealing with, not journalists, are being presented. Journalist ethics requires that the true or legitimate rights of those reported are not sacrificed for circulation or ratings. We are witnessing that this is not respected in many daily newspapers and other media, so on the front pages we can very often notice photos and texts that are for disgust, without talking about vulgarities in various reality programs and other shows. When it comes to social and economic rights, my colleague pointed out that you stated that every sixth employee is not being paid an internship, that incomes are very small, irregular, that there is a lack of work without talking about the lack of apartments and Dr. I would refer to this non-payment of the job. It would be good if you could do a lot more in that case than your jurisdiction. For example, I was still talking in 2007 about the place where I live, Bela Palanka, a municipality that everyone knows is always at the bottom of the average income scale, so the municipality that is known as "Cipelgrad" lives in it by a large number of former shoe factory workers in the big state, the Vesna shoe factory that is now not working and since the high labour price is extremely low. People are forced to work in impossible conditions because of job shortages, and employers, who have many, over 30 registered shoe shops, some of which are small and some are not so small, are factories that employ over 100 factory workers, but for this same factory a large number of workers work at home. They're mostly women. Of course, they have not been reported, nor are they paid any taxes and contributions and all that follows, especially in conditions that are not suitable for such a job. So, from 2007 to today, no matter what the appeal, nothing has changed. The factories and the smaller shops turn decent money, of which there is a good number of workers, but there is still a large number of those who work because jobs in other areas are not for very little money, and especially because they are damaged for all the benefits that follow them. As for the violation of labour rights, I would refer to the fact that the right to work is still being misused for a certain period of time. It is known that up to one year the longest can be worked for a certain time, but with various interruptions. Employers manage to prolongate and not translate workers into a permanent working relationship. Then, we have a violation of the right to daily, Sunday, and vacation. And in these cases that I've talked about before, let's say, it's known that when it's season, the right to a daily vacation is absolutely not respected, it's about day and night and Saturday and Sunday, and it's about the right to an annual vacation and we're not talking about it. When it comes to connecting work experience, there are still no known criteria for selecting the firm or selecting the workers who are associated with the work experience. Whether it's state-owned companies or it's just individual firms, in any case, favoring each other at the expense of each other. Many employers are also tolerated from paying mandatory contributions. So it's known that individuals don't pay. I'll give you a drastic example. For example, in the municipality where we were part of the government until 2009, after the transfer of power, our president of the assembly was left without that function. Six months after that, he was getting paid, and when that time was up, he was supposed to regulate his work relationship rights by applying to the bureau and receiving compensation as far as he was going towards the length of the internship he had. Turns out he was not paid taxes and contributions while he was president of the assembly. So that's what the president of the municipality is in charge of. How can the state tolerate the president of the municipality, as responsible for the budget, not to meet what is necessary? So what do we think of those much smaller employers? I quote, on page 16, you said that employers, who do not pay contributions to mandatory pension and health insurance, are most directly breaking the law, and it is the obligation of competent state authorities, not workers, to detect and sanction such phenomena. We are also witnessing strikes of hunger and self-inflictedness, which has already been said, and the fact is that it is now happening again, and this is before each election, that all places will be subject to public competition, in public services, and not to have someone become employed without even knowing about it. These days in the media, too, were that all public services places would be in competition, and we know that, of course, it was difficult to implement. We will be witnesses together after the formation of the next government, if it is the government in this same system, that, of course, it will not be as promised again. As for the work of the managing authority, the so-called good and bad administration, you have pointed out the so-called code of good administration, however, this code only serves to be uraniumed in local administrations and that many items from it are not respected. You were also involved in the reform of the state administration, and we remember that the big campaign was about reducing the number of employees in the state administration, of which, of course, not much was realized. You yourself said there were over 30,000 extra employees. As far as the child's rights are concerned, you specifically emphasized the concept of inclusion. By the way, I'm coming from education, so I'd like to stay here especially long. I think the inclusion was carried out and imposed very quickly. I agree with a colleague who had previously discussed, that unprepared application of this program, because schools did not, especially when teaching did not pass enough training. I don't think they're doing well enough, and of course it's going to hurt the child. As far as gender equality is concerned, I would refer, of course, to domestic violence and women's rights. I see you've had cases of complaints from this section. I think women are still a very vulnerable category, and it is necessary to allow a greater number of procedures in this part to be resolved positively. As for the protection of the rights of citizens of deprived freedoms, you pointed out that the conditions in the legal sanctions institutions are very poor, that there are twice as many people as there should be, that there are 7,000 seats, and that in 2010, there were more than 11,000 people, which imposes one conclusion -- it would not be bad for the ruling coalition in the next campaign, as one of the main items, to promise to build as many prisons as possible, so that all those who belong there could settle. It's interesting that you're talking about the resociation of people after the prison sentences. I think it's a problem that you should specifically look back at, and you and everyone in charge, so that we don't repeat cases of people getting back into these institutions. Furthermore, you have admitted that co-operation with Simeon in Pristina is very weak, that it is practically gone. You have thus admitted, and it says in the report, that you are not in charge of the Kosovo and Metohija areas, which is certainly not good. You've already had a question, and I'd like you to answer the question about the report on organ trafficking. I would also briefly refer to the area of key remarks on the Protector of Citizens, where you are talking about observations about the state of human rights and you are saying that citizens are treated unequally and inconsistencies, that they are facing violations of the principle of good administration, especially in the field of health. I think that there is a need to be particularly concerned with supplemental work in healthcare, because I think that a legal solution that allows healthcare professionals to deal with additional work, even in working time, opens up great opportunities for abuse and that there is still a need to take care of and specify the doctor's responsibility for the so-called medical error. Of course, everything in the direction of protecting patients' rights. I would still look back on the area of gender equality, because it is one of the five rights on which the European Union even rests. It is important to take care, of course, of family violence, not only of women, but also of children, as well as of the exercise of labour rights, especially of non-payment of benefits to pregnant women and maternity families. That's where we should try to prevent it from happening. It is therefore necessary to prepare legislation in order to act preventively. As for the area of child rights, I would refer to the right to the proper development of all children. In a place where I live and in a school where I work, 30% of my children are Roma nationality. I think there's too much of a difference. Take care of the proper development of all children, both of them. In a year, two or three in first grade will be 50% of the Roma in our school. There's absolutely no reason to talk only about them, about your children together. They live together, they go to school together, work together and spend time together. I don't think there are any significant cases of trouble or abuse with regard to Roma. I would also say that the state has promised, for example, people have been talking to me lately on the phone and personally, because in the written media, they saw the title "Paid for a Third Child" or they saw the title, "The State pays child support instead of unconscious parents." So it's not just a media campaign, let's say, under the heading "Third Child Payments" is a demographic fee of 20,000 dinars, but without cover. Why do you promise something that will probably never be? Do you know how many parents don't pay child support? I personally know a woman who has two grown sons, one who is 18 years old but whose husband has not paid child support for six years, not a single dollar. He doesn't know where he lives, he doesn't have an address, he can't sue. Then the title follows that the state pays child support instead of unwitting parents. It's, I guess, a distant future, but this kind of title probably serves only for propaganda purposes. If I didn't, I'd just point out one thing in the end. In the end, the report contains statistics and figures on the activities of the Protector of citizens and says that in 36.54% of citizens have addressed you for what you are responsible for and that 63.46% of citizens have turned to you for what you are not responsible for. You need to do a lot of work to keep citizens informed of what you are responsible for, and if the state were to pass laws that are clearer, precise and applicable, then you wouldn't have much to do either. So, since we're just generating laws, which are important for the European path, and no one's taking care of their application, I assume you'll have a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58415	It's been used 21 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58416	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Protector of Citizens, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about a report by the Citizens' Protector for 2010. Article 138. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts: "The protection of citizens is an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, the authorities responsible for the legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other bodies and organisations, businesses and institutions entrusted with public authority. "Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that in the voting day we adopt the conclusions on the regular annual report of the Citizens' Protector for 2010 and that the National Assembly assess that, in its regular annual report for 2010, the Ombudsman fully presented the state of human and minority rights in Serbia and the quality of the citizens' rights before the state authorities, pointing to the necessary changes in the work of the public sector, in general, which would improve their achievement and protection, as well as a comprehensive demonstration of the activities of the Citizens' Protector in the exercise of constitutional and legal competences. I propose that the National Assembly determines that it is the duty of all state authorities and public authorities to respect the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors in the exercise of their responsibilities, in order to achieve and protect human and minority rights and freedoms, and to act in accordance with the principles of good administration. I also propose that the National Assembly undertake to monitor the work of the executive bodies and public authorities in the exercise of its control function, as set out in the Constitution and in the law, from the point of view of respect for the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors contained in the present day and, in accordance with their competences, contribute to the achievement and protection of human and minority rights and freedoms. This is a new thing we've been doing, compared to the past decade, which is that we have the Guardian of Citizens and we're considering reports of his work. The 2006 constitution introduced this institute. Certainly the period from then to this day was the period of growth of this institution in what should be represented throughout the many years ahead of us. I think this past year is also the year when we can say that the Guardian of Citizens has started working at some full capacity. And I think the result of that work is this big report, which I have to say, on the one hand, the report in the right sense of the word and, on the other hand, it took so much to show and share with us, that one time it crossed that line and went towards the essay. In that sense, I believe that, in some future period, this report may have to make it a little more transparent, to make it more clear what is key, and what are individual examples from the work of the Protectors of Citizens. I think in this report, it's getting a little intertwined both ways. I understand good intentions, I understand the great effort, I understand the pioneering attempt to present one of these documents to the National Assembly and the MPs. However, again, I must say that for some time there was a personal relationship in the report to be highlighted first, which I think we should avoid. In particular, I believe that certain views that I do not dispute exist with the Guardian of Citizens should not, especially in those areas that are not directly responsible for the Protector of Citizens, should be carried out in the first place. That's where I specifically point to the str. The 15th report, which mentions the Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, mentions that the law is in force, which produces legal inequality. The fact is that when this report was made up, and the report arrived at the National Assembly on 15 March, the last day when it was due to arrive, means, within the time limit, but it is mentioned that the Constitutional Court should be determined under the Law on the Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities, a predetermined position is given to produce legal inequality, and in the meantime we have a decision of the Constitutional Court to establish that the Law on Return of Property to Churches and Religious Communities is in accordance with the Constitution. In that sense, regardless of good intentions, regardless of certain attitudes that exist, I speak to each individual, what is in the jurisdiction of certain other state authorities, where jurisdiction is divided, that we should avoid it in some future period. It is normal to find much in these 150 pages that we can agree on and may not fully agree with. Think of this discussion of mine as well-intentioned, so we don't have to repeat such mistakes over the next few years. The fact is that many phenomena are well noted in the report, that a possible solution is indicated, that at the end of the report, at pages 123, 124, 125, 126 and 127 are given certain recommendations to improve the position of citizens in relation to the authorities of the administration. In relation to these recommendations, I think that we should be extremely careful, not to talk about those who carry out the recommendations, but to put together recommendations, when we next make these recommendations to be extremely careful, so that, by accepting recommendations by the National Assembly, we do not enter into a conflict of jurisdiction between independent institutions in the Republic of Serbia. As the Citizens' Protector on his own part is independent, so other institutions in the state of Serbia are independent. In that sense, regardless of the good intentions of all these recommendations, I think that there is a limit to which the recommendation can go without touching the authority of another independent institution as well. These are just my personal suggestions, allowing someone to have a different attitude. At the end of the discussion, I'd just point to one more thing. I think it's indisputable for all of us that a job of good state regulation is a business for generations. It can't be done in just one month, in one year, it's a period of building a legal system. However, I think we're doing well in one big and serious job. No matter what anyone can find out is that there is still an unsatisfactory level of relations between certain institutions towards the exercise of the right of citizens, I would point out what is on the 138 side of the report, and this is about the completion of the citizens' protection proceedings under the 2010 complaints. Out of a total of 977 complaints, according to what we received in the report, as many as 574 complaints were rejected as unfounded. So it's obvious that compared to everything that citizens feel like a threat to their rights, it's not exactly like every time a citizen is right. Often it is, but we can see that in relation to those cases where citizens were addressing the Citizens' Protector, in most cases the organ that was acting was obviously right. In 229 cases individual and aggregated recommendations were given. The procedure was suspended in 134 cases. So, the government's authority has removed the lack of work. I think this is a good thing because, when it comes to the organ, there is a good will and the possibility of repairing it, there is a possibility of preventive action, there is a possibility of achieving rights in the process itself. The complainants dropped the complaint in 39 cases, and one opinion was given on a total of 977 complaints that reached the Citizens' Protector. In any case, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed conclusions, that this discussion and discussion of distinguished colleagues and colleagues here be practically an incentive here, in the next reports for the coming calendar years, possibly these suggestions be incorporated into the report and that, as we build and perfect the legal system in Serbia, we contribute and help to the successful work and results of the work of citizens' protectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58417	Ten minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been given by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by Parliament MP Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58418	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to human rights, there should be no prejudice, no party or any other, because these are general things. In that sense, we have read this detailed report neutrally and unscathedly, and it cannot be said that there are no good things in it. However, as soon as politics interferes with human rights or a kind of indirect or direct pressure, there is uncertainty, similar to that of a law presented to us by the new governor a few weeks ago. What exactly am I trying to say? That simply the report should have been more concrete, clearer, and unspeakable. As we can see, this has already been repeated several times, 8500 citizens turned to the Citizens' Protector in 2010, which is a large number. It is clear that the capacities, here we agree with you, are not enough for all human rights violations that exist in the Republic of Serbia and over the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We certainly agree with your definition on page eight that there are vulnerable groups, first of all they are children. It is something that every society, whoever is in power, must have in mind and must protect them, because as you mentioned, as it says on your site and as you make statements to the media, there is a Convention on the Rights of the Child, which must be respected no less than the European Convention on Human Rights and no less than the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. On page 9, you say the trials are slow, and we agree they last more than three years, which is not rare. I must remind you that there is one citizen, president of our party, whose trial has not been completed for almost nine years, and you will agree that this is an extreme and difficult violation of human rights. As far as judicial reform on page 10 is concerned, and that's true, it's true that there are no criteria, it's true that they are untransparently defined and it's good that you pointed out that problem. In our opinion, however, you should have been specific and appointed for example. Mr. Homen and those who ran that so-called. reform and criticise them in an argument. Nothing would happen to you. As for page 11, we have to support that. It is true that the European Commission does not support you, that unlike these phrases on the European path, on the European future and the like, they do not show you concrete support when dealing with problems in the Republic of Serbia. However, again, I must say that you should have been specific and said that Mr. Deger was the main culprit. He is a representative of the European Commission and he writes reports to the European Commission and sends them to Brussels, Vicent Deger, a representative of the European Commission in the Republic of Serbia. You should have shown some kind of professional courage. As far as freedom of mind is concerned, it's on page 13 of the report, you should have handled the subject a lot more widely. It's not enough just a few sentences. It's a very important question and one of the fundamental human rights. Besides, you know that in Article 19. The international pact on civil and political rights has just been highlighted as one of the fundamental rights. You also know for certain that there is a rich practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which precisely shows the limit between freedom of opinion and hate speech. You should have relied a little on this practice that lasts for decades, you certainly know that and that is based on the European Convention on Human Rights and to define a kind of criteria for what freedom of expression is, what freedom of opinion, and what language of hate is. Otherwise, this is how we can claim each other, you two, the authority of the third and we will not reach any criteria that exist and here they are again at the European Court of Human Rights of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. I think it's also a kind of indiscretion. I don't dispute your good intentions, but you should have worked this part out even more. On page 13, and here I agree with my colleagues from the SRS, I don't think you should have dealt with the blank resignations. It's one matter that's, above all, clear from the legal point of view. Look at what the Constitution says in Article 112 and you will see that the law is contrary to the Constitution and I think it is something to be left to other bodies, to the Constitutional Court or to someone else. Still, this isn't about human rights. It's about breaking the Constitution. That's the exact definition. On page 14, you're talking about the media. I also support the need to investigate the transparency of ownership. It is a key issue in the media – who are media owners, whether they abuse their political, economic function, say "News", "Pres" etc. or don't abuse. I wouldn't be dealing with any conflicts between cheerleading groups, B92, in the sense that you're engaged in, so broadly, I'd rather reverse the order of things and rather deal with, say, the transparency of ownership in a wider scale than the one you've done. Also, as far as restitution is concerned, that's side 15 of the report, that's a very serious question. I say again, you must apply a dose of caution, because I will remind you and you certainly know that even in Germany, which is the richest country in the EU, when there was a restitution regarding East Germany, there was no going beyond the threshold of 10,000 marks of that time. You should be very careful and there you should be, I do not tell you personally about your institution, without populism you should see what this poor country, which is getting poorer precisely because of the EU's demands, should do as far as restitution is concerned, without populism, demagogy and yet another false pre-election promise. Consider this a well-intentioned advice from the SRS. Also, it's good that on page 18 you talked about abuses in employment. They're huge and not only in domestic employers, but also in foreign ones. I'll give you an example. You have a EU monopoly of foreign banks on the financial market of the Republic of Serbia around 75%. There needs a little professional courage and more research and a kind of political will to get in the way, because believe me, abuses are huge. Also, I think you should be on page 20 more about refugees. Only those few sentences are insufficient, it is a huge problem, because if you acknowledge yourself in that report that there are the most refugees in the Republic of Serbia, in Europe, then it should certainly have been a little wider and more extensive. As for the reform of the state administration, a kind of professional courage should also be applied and said there is a need to reduce bureaucracy, but to reduce so-called. Brussels Bureaucracies in the Republic of Serbia. I will give you just one example, this is the EU's Association Office for European Integration, which has received another million euros from the current budget to expand between the other and the European democracy in the Republic of Serbia. I'm not going to spread the subject now, IPA funds, etc. We're finally coming up with our main grudge. That's page 22. I am glad that Mrs Luksic-Orlandic is here, because this is a very important topic and it is about the rights of the child. It's not true that the state authorities did everything they needed to do with the rights of the child. I will document this and here are the documents that Mrs Luksic-Orlandic, which is not ill written at all, sent to the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the Institute of Public Health "Milan Jovanovic – Batut". However, you certainly know Mrs. Luksic-Orlandic about what it is, 200 children and the most endangered categories, with the pathology of speech, which, due to the haughtiness of Mr. Aleksandr Vuksanovic, the director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute after 20 years, has been abolished funding, you can think of this scandal, the Institute for Pathology of Speech in Belgrade. After 20 years, it's an outrageous thing and I don't think there's any excuse, because it's a sum, if I'm not mistaken, that's what our parents told us, 150,000 euros. On the other hand, you have the RZO budget, commanded by Mr. Aleksandar Vuksanovic, of two billion euros. So you have a budget of two billion euros from an institution and they are not, i.e. Mr. Aleksandar Vuksanovic, as the most responsible, is able to single out 0.001% in order to have 200 children, as parents have told us, we have seen both the documentation and everything, in order to provide them with assistance and support in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child or, to be specific, so that 200 children do not become permanently autistic. You know, Mrs. Luksic-Orlandic, what it's about and how it's a violation of the right child. So this is our main observation and I ask you to pay attention, because there is no greater violation of the rights than violation of child rights. That's what the Convention on the Rights of the Child tells you, that's the international pact and, in other words, you've sent one such request to the RZO on 14 April 2011 and it's well written. After that, you referred to Batutu, but I warn you it's a cheap trick by Mr. Alexander Vuksanovic, because RZO is being financed by the Batut Institute. So these are related institutions or, simply to say, RZZO is the head of the "Milan Jovanovic Batut" Institute. So, you should still show some kind of professional courage because you'll admit it's a scandal of unrecorded proportions, a scandal that probably hasn't happened in our health for the last 20 years, a scandal that hasn't happened in 20 years, when it comes to human rights. You will admit that it is one problem that has nothing to do with parties either, has nothing to do with the Serbian Radical Party, or with any party here, but about haughtiness, about irresponsibility, and I will give you a concrete example that our parents have told us about Mr Alexander Vuksanovic. In January, March and February, those unfortunate parents asked for Mr. Alexander Vuksanovic's reception, and he did not dominate himself in writing to answer them. He did not answer them in writing, not that he did not find time to receive parents of 200 children who had such terrible problems. So it's something for a normal, reasonable man inconceivable, a kind of haughtiness of a man who is in such a responsible place and who has a budget of two billion euros. I appeal to you and to Mrs Luksic-Orlandic, who is obviously serious about this problem, to show professional courage. I know that Mr. Vuksanovic's positions are very strong, in one ruling party, but you have to understand that it is 200 children, that it is human rights and that you, in accordance with these requirements that you submitted in April and May 2011, act and to be persistent, consistent, and only so will you be able to translate these definitions on page 22 of the report from word to action. Also, as far as the Convention on the Rights of the Child is concerned, it is entirely and undoubtedly referring to this case because it is necessary for the child to be provided with health care, health standards, inclusion in normal development, inclusion in the school programme and all that this society needs to provide. In order for the scandal to be even bigger with the RZZ and with Mr. Aleksandr Vuksanovic, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the 2009 Regulation on the national programme of preventive health care for children with psycho-physical disorders and voice pathology, signed by the government's vice-president. This regulation, which is clearly well written, has about 20 pages, says that the programme must be implemented from 2009 to 2012. How does when at the first step of the RZZ and its director, Aleksandar Vuksanovic, end funding for 200 children with serious disorders that are the only chance and this is done after 20 years of funding the institution? Please, it's a scandal. Should we throw away all these regulations, throw away all these laws, and then simply by the law that should be overcome in the civilized world, means who has a better position, who is stronger, who has more money to determine whether or not 200 children should be saved or needed for some of his own promotion, such as that of Mr. Vuksanovic, when he spoke of "Political" that solidarity in health should be shown? There's no "s" on paper, not something else. Therefore, I again urge you and Mrs Luksic-Orlandic to take this problem seriously. We talked to those parents. Believe me, it's really disturbing because these are children who have been suffering from these disorders for years and their only chance is for the state and the RZO to stand behind them and finance these treatments that are needed almost daily. Do you know the difference between daily treatment and treatment proposed by Mr. Vuksanovic once a month? So you take away their basic human right, their right to life, their right to health care, their right to infusion, etc. Therefore, please, this is not a party issue, it has nothing to do with the SRS, these parents are not members of our party, it is a human question, a question of human rights where you have to apply an even greater amount of professional determination, a greater amount of independence and one professional responsibility because it is a question that is not abstract, it is not a European path without an alternative or a reform of state administration, etc., it is a specific issue, about 200 children who need help and you have to do it as an independent institution. This is not a party issue, it's a question of human rights and the question of humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58419	It's been used 16 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is a folk letter from Marina Toman, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jankovic, we have before us a report that has not been clearly defined above all the procedures and measures that you, as the Protector of citizens, take when you see a problem or what you suggest, in which way these problems are removed. I agree with my colleagues, the report's pretty straightforward. He could have been more specific, not too critical. He misses a number of these critical reviews and suggestions on how to fix things. As we can see, you've really let yourself in and touched some very important issues and problems, but reading the report gives you the impression that you didn't go anywhere to the end. The question is why is it so, is there a lack of courage, whether there are political pressures, but you already know or something else. We agree with you that citizens have the right to good administration. Despite your analysis and your observations, it seems to us that the report relating to this segment could still have been more critical and contained a number of concrete examples because, you'll agree, there are really many. Do you think that public administration authorities should not only agree with you on any obligation, rights and on the law of based citizens' interests to lead formally and properly and essentially justly, transparently, effectively, but the question of what to do when all this is not respected or how many hands are tied to you and how seriously do you take your recommendations? Indeed, all the traits that should characterize a good administration are listed, but you and I could agree that most of these features remain only on paper and have very few in practice. The question arises what happens when a citizen is denied the right to be personified by the work of a single administration. You know, not everyone in this country is a lawyer, not all of them are eternally interpreting the various provisions of the laws called upon by the administration, denying citizens through this way some right so that citizens can rightly interpret and see that the administration is wrong and that they continue to insist on the exercise of their right. I'm just going to give you one example where I'm going to show you how the government's authorities violate citizens' rights. It concerns the part about their transparency. Despite the law on availability of information of public importance, state institutions are very often advertised on this law. I will give an example, journalist "The Greater Serbia" Ivan Ninic, thus addressing the Agency for Medicinal Products, to provide information and data from various areas of work and work of the Agency. However, the Agency complained to the editorial, Mr. Ninic himself, because he did not state the reasons for asking for information, listen, or how he would apply them, even though the law does not require it. Mr. Ninic knows that, so it wasn't a problem for him, but there are people who don't know it, and you'll agree, this example is not lonely. Does this mean that, despite the law, if someone doesn't answer the reason for the angle, that information won't even arrive? So, about transparency and these other characteristics, similar characteristics that should have one good state administration, that's very disputable. You claim that the right to good administration has been entered into the EU legal system as the basic right of its citizens, but that in the Republic of Serbia it is not yet recognised as such. We agree. However, the Republic of Serbia should not do this for the EU, but for itself, for its citizens. However, it has simply become a general form of behaviour in most of the laws adopted in this parliament. For reasons of their adoption, it is precisely cited as a reason, to comply with EU rules. So you do it mechanically, you don't see things the right way, and that way you don't solve any problems. I will also refer to a report on the protection of the rights of national minorities. The Serbian Radical Party, while still adopting the National Minority Councils Act, indicated that the main problem would arise during its application in practice. After all, we could hear similar attitudes from the representatives of the state authorities themselves, who claimed that they would not fully live for a few years. To questions – how will the provision be applied in practice? We got the answer – we'll see it in practice. We'll see about that when the time's up. You in the report state something like that. I quote, although the essence of the cultural autonomy of national minorities is defined by the Constitution and specific laws, the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities and the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, the authorities of the State Administration, which should ensure the exercise of these rights, have not established appropriate ways to apply this in everyday life, in different conditions. Exactly what we claimed a long time ago. So the law is one thing, and its application in practice, something else entirely. At that time, we claimed that the advice was given too much authority, which they carry with them, of course, and greater responsibilities, which the advice would not be able to deliver. We warned that by adopting the National Minority Councils, the state had taken down a great burden and had given advice that it was mainly only those dealing with the problems of the national minorities. You have a law, so you see what you have to do. One is the law on paper, the other is its application in practice. After all, this report is somewhat confirmed. You, like us, know it's impossible without the active role of the state. We pointed out the lack of professional staff in schools that would teach children in their native language. It is the state that should be actively involved in overcoming this problem. It is not only the problems of minorities to preserve tradition, culture, history, and in this field a lot has been done, but also a series of essential life problems that are plagued by the majority of the Serbian people. You know, both Slovaks, Hungarians, Romanians and others, it's very important for all of them to have their children educated in their native language. However, the country's disastrous economic situation is such, and they have been virtually denied it, after all, as well as the majority Serb people. Schooling has become a privilege for the rich. You have determined that most authorities of the state administration and public services do not apply regulations, do not plan measures to increase the employment of members of national minorities and do not keep records of the national structure of employees, among other things, and that no applicable administrative procedures have been developed. We warned that this would happen, as we warned that there would be a politicisation of national councils. Unfortunately, that's what happened. We also referred to the discrepancy with other regulations, so that we could agree with your findings in the report, that the incomplete implementation and non-compliance of certain laws with the basic laws is a really big problem. But the question arises – what step did you take after you found those facts? Did the state institutions honor any of your recommendations? It's not enough just to find irregularities, but to find mechanisms to correct them. Put in force and energy to implement the proposed measures in practice. Otherwise, this will be just one guideline for the way the state authorities are supposed to move, but they don't have to unless they want to. Simply, there is no mechanism, or maybe there is, but it is not applied in an adequate way. I wish we'd heard more ideas about how to get rid of those irregularities. Now, this is going to be another one, and I don't think anyone in this room would want this to be another report in a series that soon, when the debate is over in this House, will be forgotten and deposited on some shelf. In the end, I'd like to ask you a question. How would you react if a group of citizens spoke to you, claiming and supporting their claims by documentation, were threatened by certain rights, by someone deciding to build a waste plant near their houses with hazardous materials, near their houses, in the midst of fertile ornaments, so that people who are engaged in agriculture would be prevented from doing their work? The question arises – who will buy products from their fields if the fields are located near the factory? Can you, as Protector of Citizens, give advice to those citizens who claim and have documentation that building such a factory, in question Kovacica, will endanger their rights? That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58421	The word has a National MP, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58422	I thank you, Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable Mr Jankovic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a very important document – a proposal for conclusions on the regular annual report of the Citizens' Protectors for 2010. Of course, with this complete report that we have studied in detail, which, with certain objections to the methodological character, we welcome as a comprehensive document on the state of human rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There is no need to repeat and to talk about the importance of the institution of the Protector of Citizens. This institute has existed for 100 years in the Nordic countries. It also exists in all EU Member States because there are no non-conflict societies and as long as there are countries and human society, there will also be violations of human rights and the need to protect these rights. The protection of citizens is a very important institution in Serbia as a transition society, especially in the period of 2000, when the focus and legislative activity and implementation of regulations and the harmonisation of our legislation with EU law and when the issue of human rights is one of the primary issues. The Protector of Citizens is a constitutional category and there is no need to repeat it. In achieving and protecting human rights, the Protector of citizens is undoubtedly one of the most important institutions, but also another important segment of the work and competence of this institution is the control of the work of the state authorities, the authorities of the state administration as well as the bodies and organisations entrusted with public authority and those authorities in charge of protecting the property rights of the Republic of Serbia. My only objection to this report, perhaps more to you, Mr Jankovic, is whether the Civilian Protector controlled in terms of the legal definition of the jurisdiction of the Protector of the Rights of the Citizens of the Authorities who are in charge of protecting the property rights of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Public Defence? As MPs, we are all witnessing that public defenders at local level, in the first place not rarely consummating their own procedural and material rights enter into too long disputes, do not settle property-legal disputes in one more comprehensive way, through alignment, agreements with the opposite party etc. and it turns out that these long processes, which are the most common processes in the courts, are quite costing taxpayers, i.e. local communities' budgets or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. My colleagues have analyzed your report in detail so far. We see in it that a significant number of complaints were refused, that is, that we should not leave from an aprior dogma or the premise that the state administration is always wrong and that the citizen is always right. This may be partly due to the fact that independent regulatory bodies have been established back only a few years and that now, as your institution, they work at full capacity and there are a lot of non-recognition of matter by citizens or parties who address you for protection of their rights. I don't think we should fall into a trap that will lead us to conflict, that is, intertwining the jurisdiction of the Civil Protection Institution with, say, the institution of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality or any other institution. Recently, you remember, Mr. Jankovic, we had a session of the Justice Committee a couple of months ago and a debate was held with you or your colleagues, your institution and representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary on whether the High Council of the Judiciary is an authority of the state administration or whether it is an authority of the judicial authority, if I understand this debate well. I think that's the kind of dilemma that's been set up. I want to say that the Citizens' Protector in full capacity and correctly defines what protection of citizens' rights is against the authorities of the state administration or interactively vice versa – the state administration towards citizens, but I say again, we must not fall into a trap to intertwine jurisdiction. On the other hand, we must respect the principle of the division of power and, in particular, the principle of independence of the work of the judicial authority. Good administration, I agree with your recommendation absolutely that the right to good administration should be incorporated as one of the constitutional principles, and that will certainly be in the innovations of the Constitution, hopefully within a year or two, and we will be pushing for this to be one of the fundamental human rights – the right to good administration. The right to good administration is a standard that exists and exists in the EU and is not one static category once and for all defined, it transforms and develops in general with the development of social relations and with the degree of protection of human rights. Perhaps this report should highlight a comparative element of time character, so to speak. The human rights situation in the Republic of Serbia is at a far higher level, a far higher quality of human rights today than three years ago or five years ago. When we say good administration, the first association is on counters in various state institutions and a play of Czech or Kafkian state model where a citizen is humbly standing in front of a counter and an arrogant civil servant, the bureaucrat is a god for him and it depends on him, on that official, whether or not he will have mercy on the citizen to exercise his right to come to that institution. I think it still exists in our system and that a large number of complaints are also related to such situations. For example, I welcome your assessment that human rights have been violated in the issue of ID cards, and I think it was in some police department in the town of Novi Sad, if I recall correctly. Therefore, the consumption of human rights involves, firstly, the standard of good administration, i.e. the obligation of the authorities of the state administration, the state authorities, bodies entrusted with public authority, to take action and procedures quickly and efficiently in order to achieve human, legal and constitutional rights of citizens. One of my predecessors mentioned that this standard of state administration and citizen relations, that is, its human rights is one of the segments of your work, and in any case it is something that directly affects the change of one whole mile in the field of human rights protection, but indirectly, which I also want to stress, is the creation of a single value system, a general social environment in which it will be understood that the state administration must be good and that this standard must be respected. We still live in a society that is partly slaved to some traditional ones, when I say to the traditional ones, it doesn't have to be all that is traditional and positive and negative, but we live in a society that has both stereotypes and prejudices towards certain minority groups, whether it's national communities, whether it's people with disabilities, whether it's any other group or community that's harder to exercise their constitutional rights guaranteed. In any case, your work, which is sublimated and contained in this very large report, is a good and solid review of the human rights situation in Serbia and your efforts and activities by you and your associates in the institution that you are personifying to exercise these rights. I would like to remind you that it was the National Assembly in the recent evaluations of the Rules of Procedure that removed one misunderstanding about the relationship between the National Assembly and the independent regulatory bodies, in the first place of the Citizens' Protector, and I think that we have taken an important step in resolving this dilemma, I would say, about a vague legal standard. Your legislative initiative, also the constitutional category, you consume it, relatively often, therefore, in all those areas and laws concerning human rights and freedoms, I welcome that, of course. I would not only agree with one of your findings in this report that the National Assembly or I do not know the committees, I will paraphrasise that statement in this report "some of your amendments have not even looked at". It's a finished quote. At least as far as I and my committee, whose chair I am and the Committee on Justice whose member I am, each of your amendment initiatives or amendments or initiatives to submit amendments has been very analytically and in detail considered. Many of your amendments have been incorporated in these three years back into certain legal solutions, I say many, but not all. We simply went on to decide what kind of law would be passed, to what extent to fix it, from the principle of fullness of individual solutions. Here, gentlemen, on one occasion, very briefly, you have recently submitted an initiative and amendment to the amendment to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. On one of your amendments, I insisted in informal conversations with my colleagues, which concerned the rights of children, i.e. the rights of students in institutions, schools and other institutions of education, I was not very happy with the formulation that remained in that law, that school must conduct a disciplinary procedure, etc. You were on the contrary, I was also personally against such a formulation, so I don't think that's the happiest solution, as it was formulated in that law. However, your second amendment would refer to the position of employees in the disciplinary procedure in schools and educational institutions, I considered that the amendment is not exactly on the line of what you are constantly promoting, which is the protection of human rights, you have suggested that the period of limitations conduct of the disciplinary procedure increase from one year to two years. I was against it, believing that disciplinary injuries, therefore a disciplinary violation as a violation of the legal order cannot have a stronger weight, i.e. in relation to a violation or a criminal offence, the general limitation period for the misdemeanor years is two years. You have here suggested that the disciplinary procedure be two years. Then we'd have a situation where some boasting director for who knows what reasons or the unconscious director who's running this disciplinary procedure, two years probationally harassing one of the employees, and I was against it. I want to say that it's good that you're submitting amendments and it's good that we have a dialogue here in the Assembly, on committees or at the plenary session, but I say neither is the holy letter what we say nor is the holy letter what you say. Anyway, we're trying very hard to come to the best solution, so I'm going to remind you, and this sentence ends, that Fr. Hayes, the International Organisation's conference a few months ago, found that the state of human rights in the Republic of Serbia is at a much higher level than the period of a year, two, three or five years ago. Once again, let me say that I will vote in favour of the proposal of these conclusions and of your report to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58423	Thank you, Mr. Vlatkovic. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Jankovic, we have received a report within the deadline of March 15th and so far we have been able to get acquainted with what you have stated, that in this case we have a position, since I can say that the extent of the report is proportional always to what our wishes and expectations are, or the state of society, that this report is much more extensive, that would mean that we have a lot of problems or that you have worked a lot, justified your receipts. Our wish is certainly that the Protector of human rights and freedom has as little to do as possible, and then we will be one country as we wish. It's never gonna happen, but we have to strive for the Protector's report to be this big. So, then we're really going to achieve all the goals of this society. What this report contains, we've seen that you've been working closely on all segments of society for as long as your intelligence is, we've seen that you've identified some general issues and that you've dealt with individual cases. We can't be satisfied that your offices or your operations in one year have been eight and a half thousand citizens with their problems, and yet, we know that there must have been at least five times as many of them who had needs, and they didn't know where to turn or didn't have enough confidence to turn into your institutions. In your Report a lot has already been said in the discussions of colleagues, and I will only touch a few segments that may not have been touched by others. I see you've been working on that part of achieving and protecting the rights and freedom of citizens in Serbia in a general review that you've given. You were talking about good and bad management. This mentions the interesting term – the silence of the administration, which you have explained well, and we all know how much administration can make a bad one state, how much ballast and brakes can be, and indeed in some future some future government will have to deal with clearing party personnel, and making one more serious, more efficient, cheaper, and more valuable administrations. I see in that part that you've touched the missing babies case and you've treated it a little bit like a more administrative problem or a failure. It's a much bigger problem than you say here. I, who was an MP in my term in 2000, who had the opportunity, must not say any other expression, that in 2002 I was one of the people who met those parents, then connected them with the chairman of the Health Committee and the family of Mrs. Živodarka Dacin, who also made concrete moves afterwards. So I think this takes a lot more to deal with the whole of society and that you need a public attitude to state that is not just an administrative problem. What you were saying, I'm saying, I'm going to touch some segments, complaints about the work of PIO, complaints about the exercise of labour rights, complaints about the displaced persons, and especially about labour rights, which are very often broken, you have little opportunity to intervene. You exist to have people, so free to say, sometimes a shoulder to cry on. They're more restricted by some other laws. It's interesting there's another area you should also deal with, more to create this society's conscience. You don't have, of course, intelligence, people's awareness that they can say and bring out the problem, and that's the problem with disability pensions. We have not touched here, as a society, to a sufficient extent and responsibly, the problems of buying disability pensions. We are witnesses, and very often, as ambassadors, citizens warn us or bring us objects. Those cities or those environments where some expensive privatisations occurred, where people could, through the privatisation of their businesses, come to a large amount of money, very often bought and very transparently, bought pensions. I come from a town like this where it's very familiar and very present. In order for the PIO Fund to come into a situation where people who truly exercise that right are rejected, impossible demands are made, they have to go over and over again and through the medical examinations and prove the rights they have to carry out. So that's something that should also be in one piece and the subject of your interest. I believe you've been active in co-operation on the improvement of legal regulations. Perhaps you could have been more involved, especially when it comes to the laws on education, and we recently had a case when Mr. Obradovic was there, so it was said that no one was present as a representative of the Citizens' Protector on the Committee to make a concrete proposal. It's one of the things where things are already clearly arranged in advance. We now come to gender equality, in which there is one part of which you have worked, which I personally resent for the way you do, because I believe that it is done needlessly, in order to eliminate any other violence, which is much in our society. One thing is violence against language. You called a whole area "naturally sensitive use of language", so you committed violence over the language "sensitious", because we have a word, your word "sensitious". The word "sensitious" pair of ears and destroys the basic principles of Serbian language. Please don't let violence against language be the way we communicate. You, by the way, explained in that part who was talking to you all, but people who are sensitive to that thing, let them deal with what really is violence in this society in which, unfortunately, we are not missing as a society, and language needs to be preserved, because language is our first homeland. Protecting him, protecting him, promoting him, failing to corrupt him by adopting other people's words that we will submit to Serbian spelling and linguistic norms. So what this report says mostly is, I said, less – more correctly presented state and your recommendations where you could intervene. I see you've been very critical of the government. I welcome that kind of openness. You've shown a lot of courage, looking at some drawbacks. You resented the delay in passing restitution laws, which you know is important, and how difficult it is to pass at the same time. He's just coming in front of all of us, and there's going to be a great test for both this assembly and this government, and especially for the future of this country. I think you need a lot more to stamp through this very experience that you gain every day by contacting the citizens and putting yourself in place and getting the right to be their protector, to be the institution of the Protector of Citizens. So all the damage to this society you have the right to express and your institution should be the one to give some guidance to future life and ethics of this society. It's your very important role. So what an institution should represent for this society is that you are a conscience, and some act as if you are a stain on your conscience, so that's something that the Citizens' Protector is expected to do. Of course you're not the cause of all these things you're dealing with, but unfortunately you won't be able to offer them a solution. You can only indirectly help us to be better as a society and to have a word, an opinion, an attitude as an institution that will be respected and that will create what is before all of us. I want you to stay as independent and as independent as possible, although I doubt it's easy, knowing the burden you face in society, the way you are. Seeing and knowing what this government is doing, what we can see, it's not easy for you, but hold on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58425	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58426	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. First of all, it is very good that for the first time in our session, we also have a review of the report for the previous year of the Protector of Citizens. So far, it seems to me, the Citizens' Protector has made four reports. This is the first time we've talked about him this openly. In fact, it had happened before at a committee meeting, so not all MPs were involved in the talks on the report itself. The assembly debate is such, and it is good that it is such that you have some MP telling you that you have criticised enough the executive authority, this present one, and yet others think that you are not enough, but that is your parliamentaryism. However, it is certainly one of the objectives of this report to inform all citizens, and above all the National Assembly of the state of human rights in Serbia, as well as the quality of the exercise of these rights by authorities and organisations that exercise their powers and apply the laws and laws of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the Citizens' Protector shall, after the complaint, examine whether any authority of the administration or any other organisation has legally and correctly exercised its powers, and if not, he shall have the right to request that the error be corrected, giving his recommendations that the error should be corrected. What is also visible from all the reports that we have, which are available on the site, therefore, since the 2007 report, is somehow increasing the number of complaints from citizens. However, this can be interpreted by an increasing number of citizens being familiar with the existence of you and your institution in general. That's why it can be one of the interpretations of why the number is increasing. My general impression, I think it can even be drawn from this latest report of yours, so for 2010, is that the economic and social rights of citizens are much more endangered than any of the other rights that you are following. Maybe that's not the impression of the other colleagues, but that's my personal impression. As well as that citizens as their greatest threat, which threatens their rights, feel poverty, or threaten poverty. The fear of poverty, after three years of this and this kind of government, is completely justified. I will support this only with a few statistical facts about how much poverty has moved into the homes of many families in the last three years, and it threatens to move into other homes. First of all, Serbia is a European record player at the inflation rate, which is currently around 11%. With Governor Soskic telling us, I don't know, I guess he thinks it's a comfort, how inflation will be only 14% by the end of this year. I remind him that 11% of inflation is now the largest in Europe compared to the beginning of the year. We have information that Serbia's salaries are the lowest in Europe right now, that unemployment is about 20% and that we belong to five countries in Europe with the highest unemployment rate and that 24 billion debt to foreign creditors has placed Serbia in a high-indebted country. I don't have time to look back at all the parts of this report. My colleague referred to many in the debate. First of all, I will talk about this part of the report, which begins on page 16 and talks about citizens' social and economic rights. In previous reports, so since 2007, citizens have been complaining about problems in respect of labour rights. Mostly, of course, citizens complain when they lose their jobs, and then turn to the Citizens' Protector and complain mostly somehow back to violating their rights. It's a very widespread phenomenon that people have been working for a certain amount of time for years. In the 2009 report, you're talking about a doctor, I think, who in some health care home complained about his continuous work for a certain time. You say in your report, when you looked at what was going on, that person worked for seven years on a certain level. So, the employer, in this case, I guess, the Director of Home Health, has issued as much as 14 contracts for a certain time. Also, you point to what you have pointed out in previous reports, in fact, I think only for 2009, which is that a large number of people who are employed in cultural institutions, thanks to Article 50 of the new Culture Act, which has been praised by the ruling majority for what is systemically and European, great, but what is happening? This 50th article evidently gave employers the opportunity to receive people working in cultural institutions for a certain period of time. You say in the report that it became a rule, and that the exception became that someone was working indefinitely. You pointed out that in the report and suggested that it change. I suppose it's an initiative to amend and supplement the law that makes it possible. This would be the most normal way, if changes and additions were to be voted in the Assembly and the appearance would stand in the way. I feel sad and I don't want to be ironic or cynical, but it seems to me in Serbia only when it comes to culture we think that people shouldn't work in continuity, but we need culture to be for a certain period of time. Another phenomenon when it comes to labour rights, which people rightly complain about, is that employers don't pay or pay their pensions in time, which is why people can't exercise their right to full pension. It is a threat that people in their late years will be exposed to poverty. When people work, although very often it happens that employees are not even familiar with the fact that the employer does not pay them contributions, but while they do say – it is only good that I receive some pay, that I support the family. But we all need to know that one minute, if God does, we're going to retire, and then it's going to be very difficult for us, because that pension is going to be nothing, and then we're going to find out if the employer, who was obliged to pay those contributions, did it. Already today, it has been reported that every sixth employer in Serbia pays salaries and contributes in time, which means that a large majority does so with delays. It seems to me that there are a little better solutions in the environment when it comes to it, so it is said that there are clear deadlines in Croatia where employers are obliged to pay, and there is a threatened prison sentence if they do not do so in time. Then, in BiH, workers' protection is better. There are litigation disputes. By the time it reaches the court, they are limited to six months, that within that time limit a certain case should be completed. We don't have clear rules, double arches apply. Now, for example, I'm going to take one company, and believe that many are in such a situation. A state-owned company such as GSP Belgrade owes big money, but it is tolerated to them, unlike some smaller companies that are privately owned, where the inspection is much more rigorous. Payments and contributions to private companies are very often delayed or cannot be paid precisely because the state or public enterprises owe these private companies, so it is a chain round. Now I would also take the opportunity, as I speak, to apply these double arches, and I would draw your attention to a bill of law which the DSS referred to in the assembly procedure, which is a bill on payment deadlines for the users of public funds and state and public enterprises. I would like you to advocate that the Assembly will consider this bill as soon as possible. I'll just say briefly what this is about. Practically, this is another reminder of state and public enterprises, deadlines and procedures that already exist in some other laws, to simply remind them by this special law that they are really obliged to comply with all the rules that already exist. So this is one of the ways in which the Ombudsman can show that he wants this situation to be resolved, i.e. that you get as little complaints from citizens who will complain that their labour rights are not respected. We think this lex specialis would sort out these problems somehow. The high unemployment and demand for work provide opportunities for improper employers to use blackmail and other illegal methods in an unfavourable position of workers, i.e. we never again seem to have had regulations and laws that protect workers and their labour rights without ever being worse or less protected. In 2009, the Assembly passed a law popularly called the Law on Preventing Mobing, or the Law on Preventing Labour Abuse. Unfortunately, it seems that the law does not apply, but that employers, whether it is public enterprises or private, do not know that the law exists at all. You deny me if you have any other knowledge, but it is our impression that this law is passed so that it exists, but that no one is. Recently, a spokesman for Belgrade's First Basic Court said the court had not reached a verdict on citizens' complaints of labour abuse. They here say that during the time that the law is part of the law in Serbia, that they have received about 40 lawsuits, people have called on that law and the spokesman says that about half of these complaints have been rejected as unfounded. So, people in their opinion didn't need to complain. But she also says that of the other half of the complaints, no dispute has been resolved. What does that mean? This means that both our judiciary and our courts do not know that this law exists and that there are some deadlines. When it comes to the Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, they say at least 10 citizens turn to them every day complaining of labour abuse. Basically, this is an agency that should remove the pressure of various complaints from your service. As far as I can tell, you don't have that huge number they have, if they say at least ten people complain every day. I'd end up here. I hope you answer some of these questions. When it comes to the field of work, it is sad that probably citizens who have been listening to what I've been talking about, who are unemployed and who are growing numbers, are sad that they thought – that I don't do and that I don't have any pay, so you could easily withstand that mobing and that abuse. The situation where citizens and workers in this country find themselves very poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58427	Thank you, Mrs. Banovic. There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before concluding a single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? The word is by Citizen Protector Mr. Sasa Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58428	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I would like to express my sincerest gratitude to the National Assembly for the opportunity, for the first time, after four years of my term, in this way, to discuss the report of the citizens' protectors and to hear for the first time in this way comments, questions, opinions, views and the opening of many important issues that are invaluable to my work and the work of my associates. I don't need to repeat to you that no one can influence the Guardian of Citizens in the performance of his duties or the National Assembly. On the other hand, I suppose the most called National Assembly, next to the citizens themselves, is that everything that sees in the work of these organs and me personally, and for which there is a need for suggestions and corrections, that this is the right place and the right way to hear it. Everything we've heard about us is really more than significant. I also believe that if the National Assembly decides to accept the draft conclusions proposed on this report, that it will be good news for citizens, because the National Assembly does not vote on the Report, but that it is by its authority to assist the mission that the Ombudsman has, therefore, that the public authorities, which in their work are making a failure to damage citizens' rights, and to miss out without delay of the document and certainly that the authority of the National Assembly, if it too stands behind that request by the Citizens' Protector, will help to make a much greater number of citizens more effective and faster attain their rights. In a series of your presentations, practically all aspects of this institution's work are covered. I'll remind you very briefly that it took 200 hundred years practically to reach Serbia from Sweden, but when it arrived, that the law and the Constitution gave extremely important powers over other institutions of a similar type. Not many ombudsmen in the world can be praised for having the right and obligation to write laws and legal proposals. There aren't many ombudsmen of authority to control, some of them just give opinions. This institution is therefore significant in our legal and practical system. I'll try to get chronologically into at least some of the questions, make sure it's as large as possible, answer and explain certain situations that are potent. I am glad that the MPs of the SRS have returned, because one of my general impressions from this discussion is that sometimes I feel like I don't get it very well, on the one hand, my report has been quoted which is really critical of the executive authority, the public administration authorities and some views of it has told us that we are executive government, public administration, and that's exactly what I tried to point out in the report that executive power everywhere in the world, even in Serbia, is very easy to cover between control independent authorities. He says - we have a problem with human rights - ask Simeon, we have a problem with information of public importance, ask the Commissioner. No, these are the authorities that need to control and whose purpose it is to control those whose primary job it is, but not to replace their work. We can never do that. I'll go, like I said, chronologically, unless some association leads me to another question. Indeed, economic and social rights and workers' rights are something that, at least quantitatively speaking, burdens citizens of Serbia. Of all the things you have seen in my report, I will single out one special system phenomenon, which is conditioned by our regulations, which I have pointed out in the previous report, not in this report for 2010, but in 2009, which has not yet found an echo in this home, and I think it would deserve your attention. Namely, our regulations predict, as they are, that the worker bears the consequences of his employer’s failure to pay his internship, not fulfilling his legal obligation. The worker can't retire if it turns out that his employer wasn't paying the internship, and the employer wasn't paying the employee's internship, he was paying the public fund. The public fund, it's the state that was supposed to respond on time. It should be based on the principles of justice that whoever has worked for a certain number of years, who cannot, who has clear proof of how much he has worked and how much his salary, the public fund would have to pay him a pension, and the fact that the public fund did not in time require employers to be charged with the law of established contributions, it should not be on the burden of workers. The consequences of such a legal solution today are seen in a huge number of cases and we deal with them, the executive authority deals with them, mostly on ad hoc basis. I plead, of course, we can't change the past, maybe we can't, given today's insolvency of the pension fund and today change reality, but maybe the National Assembly can pass the law, and say at least five years from now, it'll be known that a pensioner who has gained a condition for retirement has a full pension, and we'll give time to maybe five or three or less years to state authorities to establish financial discipline with employers so that this situation doesn't survive. I am at the National Assembly for all consultations on this proposal. As I said at the outset, it is not common, it is not too often for the ombudsmen to write laws and intervene in the legislative process. I have this authority, but I don't think it should normally be the one who writes amendments and laws, but to be the first associate of the National Assembly, and because of that, many of the things I point out, I'm not taking over this institution that it does it authentically, for many reasons, considering that it's not the right course, but that we need to help the National Assembly come to a solution. It has been said indeed and I believe that what has been achieved in the work of this institution, and it has been achieved for these four years, much is not the result, as one of the MPs said only European integration and pressure from abroad, but that it is the authentic development of Serbian society, Serbian institutions, Serbian democracy. I really believe that. It's something that someone misread from the report. However, we are in this and indeed the Protector of citizens did have great support from European institutions. I hope we'll just take the opportunity, so we can make this help of our friends even more effective in the results. However, as far as it was achieved, I will remind you that four years ago, when I was elected, there were no associates, no budgets, no sublegal acts, the institution did not function in fact for the first few months in general, that these are now the fifth provisional rooms, that today this institution works and that when my colleagues from abroad view them as an extremely fast development of the institution. Even the Protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia gained status A in the UN system of national human rights institutions. After a lot of large analyses, the UN estimated that this institution and normatively, but it is also, in fact, the highest level of achieving the objectives of the institution, but I am not at all satisfied, nor do I think anyone in this country has reason for self-satisfaction. As it is written in the report, citizens' expectations are much higher. We are very much behind and no one at this point, regardless of what I agree with the finding that a series of human and minority rights today is much higher than it was three, five or seven years ago. No one has the right or basis to be satisfied with it, because citizens really rightly expect much more, much faster. Today, at the centre of Europe, there is not enough fact that there are institutions, that it may be better than it was at the time of the worst crisis. Citizens expect it, and rightly so, they pay at the end, much more. Mr Ivanji, if I am not mistaken, spoke about discrimination, about the importance of fighting discrimination and rightly pointed out that the largest number of cases of discrimination affecting institutions concern discrimination in the private sector. I will remind you that the Protector of the citizens has no ability to react to human rights violations when that violation does not come from the authorities. In this regard, I am really working very closely with the Trustee for Equality who has the authority to react to discrimination in the private sector as well. In general, the issue of discrimination is necessarily linked to the question which Mrs Kolundzija has raised and which many citizens are still hazy, which is to distinguish the clear competence of the Citizens' Protector from other independent bodies. In our country, as in many others, the Protector of Citizens, i.e. Frankfurt, has the authority to deal with violations of all human rights, including discrimination, if its source is in public authorities. But the Citizens' Protector, like all other ombudsmen, does not do so as the first institution. So, if a citizen addresses a civil protection officer for discrimination by a public authority, I will legally instruct him to use his previous right to funds, and this earlier right is certainly a trustee for the protection of equality. Only in particularly difficult cases in several situations listed by the Civil Protection Officer can and does not wait for the trustee, let's say for discrimination or for the Commissioner for Public Information to end the procedure, the Citizens' Protector can react and I think that one of the advances in our system is that there is no need for the Citizens' Protector to react in these few things before the other state authorities have exhausted their powers. On the contrary, it is shown that in a small percentage of cases where trustees fail, despite the exercise of their responsibilities, to lead to satisfactory results for the citizen, then also trustees address the Trustee and the citizens themselves, and this institution has always managed to bring about a solution to information of public importance and protection of personality data, but also to co-operate with the trustee to achieve the objective of its operation. Speaking of jurisdiction, we have an open question that I think the National Assembly, or some of its committees, is the administration of an address that needs to be discussed. It is a matter of jurisdiction of the Protector of the Citizens in relation to other bodies, above all, to what are not the authorities of the administration, what are not the authorities of the state administration. I read the Constitution and read the law, and I don't find it, nor in parallel practice, the basis to conclude that the Protector of Citizens, or his control of authority, is limited to the authorities of the state administration. They repeat the constitutional formulation – The Protector of Citizens is an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, the body responsible for the legal protection of property rights, so it is a lawyer who is not the authority of the administration, as well as other bodies and organisations, and even companies and institutions entrusted with public authority. The next position of the Constitution excludes five institutions from the control authority. Therefore, all those bodies and organisations that exercise public authority, which are not among these five, which in their work can cause violations of the rights of citizens, according to the Constitution and by law, are not exempt and hence a kind of dispute concerning the High Council of the Judiciary which has been conducted here and at the board meeting. Namely, some of these authorities that are excluded are courts but not judicial authorities. I think that's something that we should really discuss in one professional way so that there is no further disagreement. At the same time, to answer the question that was asked me -- why didn't I use one of the powers that I have under the law to ask for the resolution of someone who didn't act in accordance with the recommendation given. It's one of the last powers, i.e. The last authority and assumes that there is repeated non-cooperation with the Citizens' Protector, which at the time of the reporting period did not exist, but above all there is another mechanism. I did this the first and only time in the case of the High Council of the Judiciary, the law says that when someone refuses to comply with the legal obligation, which I believe happened, that the Protector of the Citizens informs the public, the government and the National Assembly. I did it in the most formal way possible, there was no echo from the National Assembly about it, not even from the government. Therefore, the Citizens' Protector is also someone who listens to the views of other authorities and therefore brings his own court, as you expect certain things from me, and the Citizens' Protector expects feedback from the authorities that he addresses in accordance with the law. It seems to me that MP Ivanji mentioned a rather controversial member of the law that prohibits commenting on court rulings and proceedings. I really agree with that, I have made it public many times, that the way a legal member is formulated can lead to a threat to freedom of expression, and even to the disabling of one of the basic functions, which is public control over the work of each public authority, and also courts are the authorities of public authorities. What really needs to be banned is a commentary in the way the procedure is under way, that it can really be expected to have an impact on the process. I am absolutely sure that if a farmer from the League comments on a court decision that there is no basis for not having been expected to have an impact on court proceedings and prosecutions, but if a state body, if a senior state official is commenting on judicial proceedings that are under way, that is what is forbidden in all countries. Of course, government officials, by some ethical, moral, and other principles of responsibility, are normally abstaining from it. I think that's something we could also talk to the National Assembly. I'm prepared to discuss whether such a solution is sustainable. The Department of Justice's position at one point was that the provision of the law was not applicable. It was an attitude from over a year ago. Even then, I said, it may not apply at that moment, but it will certainly start to apply, and that has happened, and it can be on our agenda. It's also about corruption. I point out that corruption is something that is economically exhausting and humiliating Serbian citizens. He stated one saying, or one attitude that the more the seals are, the more likely corruption is. So there are ways in which each of the state authorities in our system is struggling with this state problem. The responsibilities of the Citizens' Protector are such as to insist on responsibilities, transparency, clear rules on the work of the authorities reduce the conditions for corruption, but on other state bodies, primarily the prosecution and the police, to do so more. What's worth considering is how our administration works, which, I'm sure, pleases corruption. I am deeply convinced, based on all these procedures that we have led, that the biggest problems in the work of our administration are the fact that it is not yet depolitised, which is considered justified, that our public administration is not only state-owned but also local under the great influence of political parties and that employment in the public sector is also still a tool of social policy. So to hire as many people as possible, give them as little pay as possible, so that they don't get unhappy and go out on the street, thus reducing the number of unemployed, but realistically these people don't ask too much what they do and how they do. Ten people in the public administration can work extremely well, properly, securely, responsible for, comparatively speaking, a very small salary. If the 11th doesn't do it, no one will point a finger at him and no one will extricate him from the public administration and for the citizens, practically the entire administration becomes corrupt and everyone in the public administration, all civil servants, including public officials, such as me, bear, are shadowed and doubtful and under the supervision of the citizens who treat us all in this way. It's something that needs to change. There are ways in which this has been done in some countries but, as you know, mine is not to run politics, nor the field of public administration, but to say that the current situation does not suit the public administration's responsibilities. Our most qualified public administration people go to NGOs, to the banking sector, to ensure the sector, instead of being highly paid and even more responsible, responsible, most conscious, most moral people working in public administration. It's one systemically different way of looking at things. Chronicly speaking, people with mental disorders are mentioned, homes for the elderly. I'm adding homes to the elderly because it's also one of the issues that are legally unsettled in our country. We have a situation that our fellow citizens, our countrymen, are in homes for the elderly in which they are practically deprived of freedom, because they are there by the decisions of their families. We had a drastic display of this problem when an old lady called us and said, "I'm in a private home for the old, they took my ID card and I can't go out, I'm deprived of my freedom here." My associates went to that private home. Director, although it's a private home, he had no problem with the citizens' protector controlling his work, but he said, "I'm going to let her out on the street now, but she's got no one to worry about, are you responsible for what's going to happen to her on the street?" Today there is no legal framework in Serbia that clearly regulates such a situation and that is something we will have to deal with. The initiatives submitted by this body and the proposals for amendments of the National Assembly have been discussed. On the one hand, I don't know where you found the exact formulation that there was no talking about something? I think the formula is a little different. But on the one hand, I think the Citizens' Protector has made significant contact with the National Assembly and many amendments and initiatives have been accepted. What concerns is the fact that sometimes, and it has happened twice lately, this year it is not in the report, and it would be good to react already now, that the committees responsible, when the Citizens' Protector directs the initiative, simply don't invite the Citizens' Protector to the Committee meetings, nor are they formally pleading on that initiative. This happened with the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and now, with the social protection law and now, with regard to the law on the basis of the education and education system. Therefore, the Law on the Protector of Citizens explicitly states that the Committee of the National Assembly is obliged to declare the initiative of the Protector of Citizens. He can, of course, refuse, as you said, nothing is sacred, but he is obliged to plead and it would be good for the Guardian to receive a call, to be informed of the board's session and that when he submits an initiative with the amendment to obtain confirmation that he did so, in a manner prescribed by the regulations. It wouldn't be necessary to avoid that one necessary, legally prescribed step, in law making. The Law on Electronic Communications is mentioned. It's one of the things that I've had a problem with the legal text, as well as the text of the Security Services Act, the way our BIA reads its law. The issue is now in front of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, and I expect the Serbian Constitutional Court to decide on the constitutionality of these laws. So at this point, the Protector of the Citizens has exhausted all his powers. On the other hand, what's good is that the BIA, but also the military security service, or the VBA, is working with the Citizens' Protector to discuss specific cases where there may have been an infringement of citizens' privacy in an illegal manner. One of the MPs mentioned that it was not good to identify the one who made the abuse. Of course, we should seek to make space for abuse as little as possible, and that was precisely the purpose of the initiative with those two amendments that I submitted to the National Assembly, but for the members of the security sector, it is very difficult to prevent the fact that they know that if abuse occurs, that, based on some recommendations made by the Guardians, it is possible to identify today, or it would be possible to identify the one who did so in the service. What is not good is that we have a legally unsettled private security sector and I am deeply convinced, but I cannot testify because I cannot control them, as the National Assembly does not, but I am deeply convinced that the greatest number of violations of citizens' privacy is no longer done through official security services, but through private security services that have the technique and potential to significantly endanger citizens' privacy and that there is no legal basis or procedure to verify it. It's about gender equality. Indeed, I deeply understand the arguments of some of our fellow citizens and countrymen who say – but I am really not discriminated against by anything, I am fully equal, because they live in the city centre, because at work there is an appropriate environment, but indeed, a large number of Serbian citizens do not have that possibility and that right and such a life environment that they do not really care whether they call themselves a teacher or a professor or what is much more significant and much more important – whether they have economic and even physical security. It's really not like that, and I'm convinced that we need to continue with very large steps in strengthening that principle. Someone mentioned it from you, and thank him for that, my opposition to the state report is that the Republic of Serbia fully provides gender equality and that all differences are just the consequences of differences in the physical properties of men and women. That's really not true, and I don't need to give you examples of how many there are. The real children have rightly earned a great deal of your attention. There was a specific question about the Law on the Rights of the Child. So that's the exception in which I decided that the Citizens' Protector would actually use his constitutional right and propose the whole law. I hope that's not going to be much of an exception. This means that at this point, no executive authority, those who are required under the Constitution to prepare laws, feels competent enough, does not have enough comprehensive authority to embrace in one meaningful and complete way everything about children's rights. We agreed to do so and the government quietly allowed the Guardian to do this law, I see that she put it in her strategy, and I believe that before the end of the year, he will be in front of you in the first reading, and by then we will have consulted with the public as well as experts. The inclusion as an extremely significant aspect and newspaper in our system is rightly apostrophe. So let me remind you that the inclusion is a new principle on which even those who, in their own capacity, are in a minority are different, are not separated into specific institutions, are not separated into asylums, but the general framework of institutions, schools, hospitals and all others adapts to each being able to in the most stimulating environment, without isolation, live and work. We have indeed had several cases in schools where that principle of inclusion did not come into life and did not live on the basis of which this principle is based. We had a situation where children with a certain problem in behavior or developmental disturbances do not have the right atmosphere and in one way both teachers and the Ministry of Education and parents are trying to get these children out of their environment. That's something we'll insist on. At the same time, in a multitude of schools, and not just schools, it has proved that this principle has its full justification and that where there is responsibility for both the professors and the school administration and the ministry's perseverance, that this principle can be revived and that it has been brought to life in those environments, as well as that it brings extremely good results. Several MPs mentioned it, and in a fine way they told me that the report may be too widespread and that it is too narrative. I really assure you that there is not a single sentence in this report that does not have any concrete actions that have been conducted in this institution. So if we ever say something that you know yourself, we do it based on concrete procedures, but at the same time also on our commitment to citizens. Because the Ombudsman is in every country, and even in this country, the public spokeswoman in front of the highest state authorities, and I am really bound by all the eight thousand people who came to us or called us on the phone or visited one of the offices outside the headquarters to tell you what the citizens say, even though you as representatives of the people need it the least. But it's my duty. Also, the examples mentioned in the report are not individual cases, but are examples that illustrate the phenomena I'm talking about. Each of these examples is practically just on the tip of the iceberg of many others that I show. I'm glad there was an opportunity, and I'm going to remind you now of last year's report that wasn't the subject of the National Assembly, but I'm going to tell you what it looks like, since all the MPs were talking about violations of workers' rights. It's an example that a national emissary spoke of, in a hospital, where indeed a doctor worked for several years without a permanent working relationship. Since I can't influence the relationship of the employer and the employee, I can only direct the labour inspection, which I have done, I have not hesitated to call the doctor, or the director of the home of health. As long as it comes, sometimes the haughtiness and arrogance of some people in the public budget tells her answer – for God's sake, Mr. Jankovic, you know how to get a job, through a relationship, or for money. So that's what we have to fight, I have to mention it here, and if you know it, because such people stay in systems, citizens think we're corrupt and unemployed. Minority rights, an extremely significant aspect of our work. To which the law obliges us. I did, with the help of my associates, have objected to the work of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights or to the constitution of the council of national minorities, not the Ministry responded within the time limit to the recommendations, but subsequently, after I informed the public about it, necessarily the Citizens' Protector that no recommendations had been made. A real issue remains a key issue regarding the Bosniak national minority of elections for the national council of Bosniak national minorities. I will not interfere with the decisions of the executive bodies but will eventually consider their consequences after the complaint. At this point, there is a lot of good co-operation with the relatively new Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the state administration and local self-government, and there is a fourth, if I'm not mistaken, area. We'll see, I hope it goes in the right direction. What's not good, it's someone noticed, I think Mr. Halimi, that a number of things related to minority rights are on the general level. Unfortunately, it's a practice again based on concrete things I'll tell you. Our Constitution provides that employment in public service, in public authorities, takes care of the employment of members of the national minority, that they have, that they are represented equally. My deputy has conducted one research in all public authorities, so how do you carry out this constitutional provision, how do you take care of the employment of members of national minorities. Of all the ministries other than you, we got the answer, no way. We simply don't have any mechanisms to enforce that legal provision. So the fact that many of the findings on the rights of national minorities are general is because we in the protection of the rights of national minorities very often remain at the general level, so in laws, we foresee certain procedures, mechanisms, general levels, but in practice we do not implement them. It has been a year since the government's initiative, which is also obliged to decide in this initiative, so from the government's initiative that a concrete law or amendments to the law provide for a way of achieving this legal provision, after a year I still have no answer from the government whether or not she was even considering the subject. So that's what sometimes causes that generality. Believers are mentioned as one of the consequences of insufficiently clearly prescribed relations between churches and religious communities. This is where I found the irregularity, and we are really coming up with a situation where a series of problems arise from the absence of basic labour rules. The Commissioner who proposes credentials does not have a single normative regulation that regulates who and how he becomes a member of that committee, which is why the commission is being resolved, on which principles the commission proposes who will be a religious believer. Here it is, if I'm not mistaken for four months since I referred to the competent ministry a recommendation to establish clear rules for the work of committees for religious teaching, the deadline has already expired, I hope they hurry up with that. He asked someone and said he found something that I disagree with, that the Civil Protection Institution is not effective enough. On the one hand, if you look that more than 290 recommendations were issued last year, that around 260 were implemented, at present about 70% of those recommendations were implemented, it is not even below any European average. In a country where judgments are carried out very hard, and you know it very well, an institution that makes a recommendation, which, unlike Commissioner Sabic, is not a second-degree body, by decision annuls someone's solution and decides otherwise, but also by the power of authority and arguments, seeks to convince someone to change their way of working and not to order it. Over 70% of recommendations made on no basis, so I'm saying by the analysis of international actors, the relevant ones, it's not bad even, here this institution is trying to the United Nations, that the performances of other developing countries are as a model of how it should be done. But, like I said at the beginning, I don't think we have any time and room for self-satisfaction. So, the number of failures that occur daily in Serbia's territory, the Citizens' Protector, in a year's time, cannot conduct as many procedures as in 15 days' time. So we have to move on the other side, we have to do what I said to try to change the way the public administration understands their work. At this point, I don't have enough capacity for my job, I don't have enough capacity to do it. That's what I tried to point you at. So, at this point, 30 investigators are not enough to be quick enough to handle all the concrete actions in all the complaints of citizens, while at the same time dealing with prevention, to go to every municipal administration and tell them what they are obliged to do, in the way they are obliged to do. At this point, we have this problem. Very soon, I will go to the National Assembly with a request to increase the number of investigators, so those to whom I transfer control powers, my professional service. At the same time, I do not think that the way for Serbia is to significantly increase the scope of the Civil Protection Service although many of our international partners suggest it, because I do not think that the way for Serbia, that above the back of each administrator stands one controller, then a supervisor, then a supervisor, but that in the beginning we have an administrator who, as I have said, is highly paid, motivated and responsible for his work and does not make mistakes. Someone asked me how many criminal and criminal charges I filed? Very few criminal charges, they're counted with the fingers of one hand and none of them broken. It's not in the nature of the institution to be a criminal authority and I don't think it's in the emergency situations of this authority and when it does, it's because the one who shouldn't have done his job right. I think there's a lot of tolerance for a certain type of crime or crime. He mentioned someone in the report, so there are segments that are completely out of criminal law protection, such as the Internet, so freedom of expression on the Internet is being abused in the most dramatic way of xenophobia and hatred and insults are completely unpunished on the Internet, and that is something that we, among other things, have shown, we will see how the executive authorities are going to fight further. It mentioned several MPs, or it may have resented my dealings with the issues of the blanco resignations. I will remind you that it is very clear in the report that the blanco resignations as an institute represent the possibility that the electoral will of citizens is changed and that there is certainly a way to remove this, while, at the same time, quoting "the hope remains that this issue will be resolved during the next executive period as it is in a way that does not endanger the electoral rights of citizens, but allows normal political and parliamentary life". So, by that I certainly think that the Assembly is able to find a way to protect itself from stealing mandates that are also, for sure, a violation of the right of electoral will of citizens, but are individual situations, not the legal solution that enables it. So, I don't think it's a political thing, blanco resignations as they are, were the possibility of violating electoral rights, the electoral will of citizens, and there's just no way I can't say it. A quote from the Citizen's Protector's report is mentioned, a very sharp one regarding how the government's government works. In the report, I noted that this is one of the extreme opinions and that such extreme opinions should not be allowed, that there is room for these extreme opinions to have fuel for further development. I don't mean, I'm not a supporter of such an opinion, but at the same time I don't think at the same time, I don't think that Serbian citizens have reason to be content with public authorities, or the way that officials resolve their rights and obligations and the law based on interests. So, right in search of the environment, he tried to keep the report on the line. On the one hand, I heard criticism that maybe it's too sharp a report, that by criticizing a situation like this, someone who would be even more unfavourable to the public, on the other hand, would hear the criticism itself that the report was too mild. If we put all this on some kind of sauce, maybe we'll come to an unfavourable conclusion about the whole character of this report. Azil is mentioned as one of the problems faced, or as one of the consequences. Asylum applications should be one of the consequences of the poor condition of a particular group of citizens. That's the problem that escalated this year. That's why he didn't get into last year's report. I believe there will be reasons and time, i.e. I hope not, but I'm afraid it will, in the report for next year, I am dealing with this issue mentioned by the honourable MP, which concerns the protection of children's rights adequately treated. As you said, the procedure has been initiated. Therefore, there is no need and no need to appeal to the courage of this institution or the people in it. The procedure has been initiated and you must be assured that no executive of any authority in the Republic of Serbia has the power to stop the Citizens' Protector from launching the work-control process. Certain acts have been referred to, but it is a matter of this year, and the next year's report will certainly find its place if needed. What is much more significant, i.e. also significant, is hopefully the Assembly, unless we have a positive outcome, and hopefully, as in several cases that have also happened, will find a way to more concretely support the Citizens' Protector in order to implement his recommendations. I will remind myself of the situation with several hundred families of entrepreneurs, where I have indeed found, with the help of my associates, that the law has been incorrectly applied, that there have been failures in the application of the law and that the IRS said it would not implement the recommendation, that it insists on the collection. It's a situation where the Guardian of Citizens did his part of the job. That's the kind of institution that Manchester is. No ombudsman in the world has the right to command. No ombudsman in the world has the ability to end someone's solution. That depends, I must say, on you and your support how much the government will listen. The issue is a diploma for children of students who finish school in KIM. I must say, Ambassador Halimi has come out, that I have found no basis to conclude that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia are violating the law by not currently allowing these diplomas to be accepted as regular. Simply, there is nostration of a diploma for foreign states, Kosovo is not a foreign country for the Republic of Serbia and that is a path that cannot go. On the other hand, all education centres in the Republic of Serbia have an obligation to be accredited so that not everyone on every corner has a school. KIM educational institutions have not been accredited, nor have they submitted a request for accreditation. I can't ask the authorities to carry out something that doesn't exist in the law. On the other hand, it's an extremely big human problem for these people, for these families. I have been informed that the talks are under way at a political level where I cannot participate or part of it, where perhaps even a solution to this problem could be found. The authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not break the law, and I cannot blame them for not recognising their diplomas, especially since I intervened several years ago in order to recognise UNMIK's seal diplomas and for accepting our executive power. Therefore, diplomas with UNIMIK stamp were recognised, but from the moment our executive authority accepted recognition of the UNMIK seal diplomas, then the Kosovo authorities decided to write to those diplomas Kosovo's republic as if their goal was not to reach an agreement. I've really exhausted all my options. The issue of pensioners and pensioners and those who are entitled to pension payments in the pension fund of RS, and now live on KIM territory, therefore, in the RS, whose PIO Fund, without any solution, has suspended pensions. In each individual case, where citizens have addressed us on this matter, we have done a procedure in several of them to determine infringements of the rights of citizens and order the Fund or to abolish an earlier pension solution on some right basis or continue to pay off that pension, if the solution is in force. There can be no solution for someone to retire without someone getting that amount, whether it's in the territory of KIM, Vojvodina or any other place of the globe, after all, that payment to the PIO fund created that right. It's a series of individual cases we solve as they arrive. Did I ask for the government's support for acting in Kosovo, I didn't. I really don't think that the government needs to support the Citizens' Protector, to act in Kosovo, I have in one case asked to go to Gracanica territory and examine whether the Centre for Social Work is working, there are gaps as I have received a complaint from citizens. From the Kosovo administration, and through the Ministry of KIM, I am responsible for going there as a citizen, privately. I couldn't accept such a deal, I informed you about it, I hope it will be in the future and create conditions for the situation to change. With my Kosovo counterpart, a colleague from KIM territory, I have no particularly developed co-operation and nothing to acknowledge. It's a simple finding. It was a question of whether I got an answer from the Simeon of Albania on the letter I sent. I did. The response is available on the Citizens' Protectors' Site, Simeon Albania agreed with me to confirm that allegations of serious violations of human rights are being examined anywhere, anywhere, without any political pressure. She told the Albanian public that way. So, the answer is here. You can see the original. Simeon Hollande, Cheveningen, as I do in the Republic of Serbia, I control the way the authorities apply RS regulations. My colleague, with whom I have an extraordinary co-operation, the Lincoln Netherlands, Alex Preimar controls the conduct of Dutch authorities in accordance with the rules of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. However, Cheveningen is not under the authority of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, but the UN regulations and my Dutch counterpart have no legal or factual possibility to do so. I answer the question, there's no authority, as I wouldn't, I say, he doesn't have legal authority to deal with Cheveningen. There is no Ombudsman in the UN system as it is. It's something Serbia might be able to run. I don't have that authority. What is true, and that is interesting, and for consideration perhaps in one of the committees of the National Assembly, I received a complaint from another prisoner, or convict, serving punishment in one country. In that country, serving punishment is not our country nor has he chosen that country to serve punishment. In that country, serving a sentence assumes that the prisoner pays phone calls. Paying for phone calls from that distance is not at all free and, for example, paying for electricity, paying for personal hygiene, which is not the case in our country, and that is again the issue of international co-operation. I will also inform the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the competent authorities of international co-operation, but the Protector of the citizens of RS has no authority to control the authorities of other countries, nor in international bodies, nor give recommendations, it is simple. The supplemental work in health care is mentioned, I think that I have done more than a lot of extra work with my associates and have pointed out that the provisions of the law on how they are made possible by the unconscious, therefore, part of the unconscious health workers over whom the Ministry of Health did not exercise inspection control, that it abuses the right to supplemental work. In close contact with the Ministry of Health and with many other actors, we tried to remove these irregularities. I am deeply dissatisfied with some of the procedures and outcomes of some of these procedures, i.e. by replacing the thesis to reduce the waiting list by supplemental work. Additional work does not serve, by law, to reduce waiting lists, because waiting lists cannot exist. If there are waiting lists, waiting lists are solved by overtime, so, overtime rather than supplemental, something quite different. It happens to a better business organization, gets rid of hiring new doctors, buying new appliances. So let's build hospitals and expand their capacities, if there is no possibility of treating citizens of Serbia, not that we might be doing something else, which we need less. Therefore, such investment in health care in this way, rather than by supplemental work which is practically private work in a state-run institution and is intended to provide some additional services, rather than providing services in the area of compulsory health insurance. You, as MPs, have allowed yourself, unlike all other workers in Serbia who can work additionally with other employers, to work in their own home, to work additionally with their own employer, this is what the law requires, and I have expressed my skepticism, but, if it please, in the National Assembly's competent committee, I will present this problem in more detail, as well as the results of what we have done so far at more than eight, if I am not mistaken, health institutions, where controls have been and have been established somewhere miss, and somewhere everything works properly. In the end, let me say that I fully agree with the objection referred to in relation to the natively sensitive, or sensitive language. Indeed, this instruction regarding the natively sensitive language has its own shortcomings. It's a working document that's in the works. None of us expected to have such an echo, or echo. Certainly in our work, my associates and I will improve this document, not giving up on the idea that gender equality is one of the things that are important and that women refer to themselves in the way our language allows, which is not against the rules of our language, but that this sensitivity to language is really represented. Finally, as to whether there are too many or too few complaints, of course, it is a controversial issue and it would certainly be logical to have as few complaints as possible, that it means that the situation is better, that citizens face less problems. I'm not sure that's the case. So developed country systems that apply to countries where human rights are highly respected, Nordic countries, their ombudsmen receive more complaints than Simeon Serbia. I'm sure there's still plenty of room for even more citizens to have reason and need to address the public defender. This is why we opened ten libraries offices throughout Serbia this year, where, without special costs, they will be able to talk to citizens from their local library with my co-workers in Belgrade. We opened in southern Serbia, Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji of our own offices. There are needs and there will be more complaints. The existence of a large number of complaints is not bad in the situation of removing the gaps raised by the complaint. So we shouldn't be afraid of any more complaints. In Spain, if I'm not mistaken, there are 40,000 a year, 40,000 conversions, not classic complaints. So that's what it's gonna be. All it takes is the capacity of my institution to prepare itself, because it's not our goal for all citizens to turn to us and then we can't go fast enough to check their allegations at the moment. That's why I said I would address the National Assembly and ask for an increase, i.e. a reduction in the number of cabinet employees, and an increase in the number of persons employed in research and control posts, in order to give citizens of Serbia the answer as soon as possible to whether their complaint was established. Already today, the length of the proceedings with the Citizens' Protector is within the European average. I am not satisfied with this and once again I say that we should not be satisfied, but once we get more complaints, if we deal with all these legislative normative things that we plan to do, we will need to increase the capacity of this institution a little bit more. One more time in the end to thank you. It's very useful for me and my associates all the things we've heard today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58429	I thank Mr. Jankovic You don't have the right to a replica, it's all said. [[(Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the place: Replica. I'm entitled to a replica.]] It's obvious we should call you more often to come, so it might be a little bit more expedient. I'm closing a single search, and based on article 87, I'm setting a break, and we're continuing our work this afternoon at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Before we move on to the opening of the search in particular, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is in agreement with Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as regards the search in detail of the first item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Elections, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Government, the presence of Duško Radaković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government; Nada Dojcinović, Head of the Group at the Department of Local Self-Government at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government and Tatjana Zeljković-Babić, adviser at the Department for Local Self-Governing at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Government. I also remind you that MPs have decided to search them in particular on the first item of the agenda: MP Bojan Djuric, MP group LDP; MP Milisav Petronijevic, SPS-JS MP; MP Jovan Palalic, DSS-Vojslav Kostunica's parliamentary group; MP Veroljub Arsic, MP group of NS and MP Aleksandar Martinovic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group and authorised representative for this point. First item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Zlata Đerić, Vjerica Radeta, joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papug and Radovan Radovanović, then Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otokiš Marton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz and Dragan Šormaz, then National MP Sreto Perić, Borisaljić, Mirko Mužić, Suzana Grubjeić, Peta Grubić and Nović as well and the Committee. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the proposal in particular. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 2, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the criticism the SRS has put forward to amend the Law on the Election of People's MPs is also in force when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. While the bill clarifies that the law is being passed to justify the sovereignty of citizens in local communities when selecting committees in local self-government units, a solution from this law will be all but strengthening the sovereignty of citizens. Instead of strengthening the sovereignty of the citizens, instead of respecting the electoral will of the citizens shown in the local elections, instead of respecting one elemental fact, which is that the political party should step out of the local assembly with the number of mandates with which it entered, instead of amending the Law on Local Elections enables political trade, allow brutal and flagrant gazing of the electoral will of the citizens and, in practice, the elections are reduced to absurdity. After the adoption of this law on local elections, it will be irrelevant how many political parties won the term in some local elections, as the number of seats you won in the elections means nothing, because in the meantime, the number of mandates of a political party can change, depending on whether they have an interest in any other political party or even some totally non-political factors, such as wealthy businessmen, etc. tycoons or some other power centers that should not have anything to do with politics and political parties. The law will allow a local parliamentary party to become the political party that has not even participated in the elections. So from democracy at the local level, there will be nothing left. What we have tried in a funny way to present when we have discussed amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, can be said now. If we wanted to be underprivileged, if we wanted to be funny, if we wanted to make fun of this law, then we could give a piece of advice to political parties and anyone who participates in local elections – don't spend money on an election campaign, don't print newspapers, print flyers, don't pay expensive minutes on local and regional radios and television stations, keep that money, when the local elections are over buy as many seats as you need, because the mandate is free. What does a free term mean in a poor country, where, from day to day, there are more unemployed people, in a country where the social situation is catastrophic, in a country where employers are asking young women, and here you are talking about some kind of gender equality in the language, asking to make a statement that when a working relationship starts, they will not remain in a different state or that they will not marry for the next five or ten years? In such a situation, introduce so-called. Free term means brutally trampling on the electoral will of citizens. Today in Serbia, Mr. Minister, anyone with 50 or 100 euros can buy most of the council members in each local assembly, regardless of which political party the council member belongs. When you joined Tomislav Nikolic in a project of destroying the SRS in 2008 and when you tried the same thing locally, you felt that all your efforts would be directed against the SRS only and that only the mandates of the SRS would be questioned. In 2008 and 2009, it was really like that, but in 2011, it's not like that anymore, and now it's about DS, SPS, G17 plus and all other political parties. If these solutions are adopted which you now propose, no one will be sure of the number of mandates he has won. It's nice that the councilman is free, I say hello, but then let him prove that freedom in the election campaign, get himself an election campaign, pay for the TV show, get the candidates for the council, get the press, promote himself, and then let him be free. So, this is hypocritical, his party sets up a campaign, thanks to the party becomes a councilman and then, when he becomes a boardman, he says – now I'm free, now I can do what I want with my mandate. It doesn't make any sense. In what democratic, civilized, European or non-European state do you have such solutions? You don't have anywhere. You've introduced a free mandate in a state where 90% of the councilmen are people who don't have, most of them don't have enough means to live. They're just people we all know. They don't deal in Serbia with people's politics like in England, those who have large land properties, bank owners, industrial plants, so politics comes to them as a hobby. Most of the council members sitting in local congregations, a good part of them, I know a lot of them, the maltenes live on that committee allowance, which is, 5,000, 10,000 or 15,000 dinars, because there are no other means to live, and such a situation is less or less important in all political parties. There are exceptions, there are rich people who are involved in politics, there are those who do not depend and are not paid in the municipality's assembly or in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but there are many who are and whose existence and existence of their families depends on those 5,000, 10,000 or 15,000 dinars. What do you think it's going to be hard for someone tomorrow to buy these councilmen's mandates? He won't. This man, who is sometimes forced to sell his mandate, may not be a bad man, may not be an immoral man, but let the torment squeeze him. He can't get a job, his wife can't get a job, his kid can't get a job, he can't finish school, he can't treat his parents, who knows what reason a man is forced to sell, to deal with political prostitution, and you know it in advance. You know that there will be such cases in practice, and instead of preventing it, to stop corruption at a local level in a poor country, you make it possible. Instead of stopping the possibility that those who own capital, who acquired it in an illegal and immoral way, are buying people in Serbia, buying councilmen, buying them souls. Instead of stopping it, you make it possible. Furthermore, the law is full of contradictions. Tell me, Mr. Minister, which is a logic that the party that is under the Law on Political Parties, which you have once again proposed, registered in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, therefore registered, must collect the number of signatures required by law in each local election to collect 30 signatures for each committee candidate. What does that mean? That political parties are some informal organizations. Why do you prescribe such an obligation for a party that is properly registered in your ministry, which has collected the required number of signatures, which has delivered its statutes to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and which acts in accordance with the Constitution, law and legal order of the Republic of Serbia? Such parties are obliged to collect signatures for their committees' candidacy in each local election. Furthermore, I don't know if you ministers are aware that major corruption affairs today shake not only the top of the state pyramid, not just you who sit in ministries but many local self-governments, that you have 1001 examples of malfeasance, abuse and apparent crime in municipalities and city halls? Not to give you examples of practical life. In such conditions, you had to make sure that these amendments to the Law on Local Elections were reflected in our political practice. You know for a fact that in many municipalities and cities tenders are being staged, public procurement procedures are being set up. Those who have been telling us for months how to depolitize parliament, how to depolitize the state administration, units of local self-government, are the biggest promoters of the unprecedented politicisation of public and private life in Serbia, those who frighten people with political parties, those who say that political parties are enemies of the people, who say that minority political parties should not even be asked about their mandates when the elections are over, they have promoted the principle that you cannot be the director of a local public enterprise if you are not a member of a ruling political party, but you cannot work as a cleaning woman if you are not part of some of the ruling parties or their member. It's unspeakable hypocrisy. Do you know that, Mr. Minister? Professionalism above politics, selecting directors by public competition, move on political parties from local self-government and all the opposite work in practice. Why didn't you stop it? Who gets local loans, who gets money from various agencies and republican funds? Let's say the people the presidents of the local boards of G 17 plus take their hand and bring to Belgrade or Novi Sad. They're getting loans. What's the condition? You have to give money for G 17 plus. They mostly talked about how to depolitize local self-government. Are you stopping it? No, you're still speeding it up, you're speeding it up that it doesn't matter if you won five or ten or not in the local elections anymore. Now you'll have as much money as you have, so if you have a lot of money, you'll have a lot of mandates, if you don't have a lot of money, say goodbye to the mandates, because the mandate is supposed to be free. The question arises – why were you not consistent when it comes to this famous closed election list? We have been listening for months that the greatest achievement of democracy is to have a closed voter's list, where the political party cannot decide who will be given the mandate, but the mandates are assigned in a order of candidates on the list. Then why didn't you remain consistent with that principle, but when it comes to one political party participating in the elections, then in the order of candidates on the list, so if someone stops the mandate, it is assigned to the next. The coalition does not have one, but is assigned to that candidate who is a member of that political party, as well as his colleague to whom the term of office has ceased. By doing so, you are already deviating from the principle of closed list. You and that principle have failed to implement it to the end and in some ways support it. The law is bad, allowing systemic corruption at local level. The law is inconsistencies to itself. Not that it will not lead to the stabilisation of political opportunities at local level, but after the next elections, God forbid some unprecedented cataclysm happens in various local congregations across Serbia. There will be everything and everything, there will be trade, there will be purchases, things will happen that parties that absolutely did not participate in the elections, some newly formed phantom groups of citizens suddenly have committees, that they decide what happens at the local level, etc. None of the stable, strong and successful local self-government and none of this story of alleged regionalisation, deetatisation, decentralisation etc. How to talk about decentralisation, about democratisation of local self-government in a system where you have legalized corruption? You're legalizing corruption with this law. What you say is that the mandate is free, that the resignation must be delivered directly, that there are no blank resignations and that you are waving the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is only a façade to conceal one obvious fact, that you, by this law, as well as by the law amending the Law on the election of MPs, are legalizing corruption in the worst possible way in Serbia. Here you are calling for the administrative court to decide on the terms of office. I must remind you, Mr. Minister, that you have a large number of examples in practice that the Administrative Court in identical legal situations where only party names differ, and everything else is the same, makes completely different decisions. A legitimate question arises, there is a fear - what will happen to all these mandates, what will happen to the respect of the law by such a court that the court of ad hoc, from case to case, as to whom it suits? The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for the law. God forbid he's never adopted, and you who vote for him don't think that a free mandate, abolishing the blank resignations, closed the electoral list to be robbed of the head of the SRS alone. He's gonna hit on you, too. As you have seen, as colleagues from other parliamentary groups who have begun to leave MPs could see, that political trade bypasses a political party, don't think tomorrow won't happen to you too. So none of the strong local self-government, none of the democratic local self-government, none of the sovereignty of the citizens at the local level. We will get a local self-government in which the election will absolutely not be respected, where the election result will be completely pointless and where those who have suspiciously acquired capital, and where they, as your party chief Boris Tadic says, will be able to do what they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58432	Time was used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group in full and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is a folk letter from Zlata Djeric, and Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will speak in favour of what was said in the defense of the previous amendment, and since I was not in the hall when my amendment was read which I think has the same intensity when it comes to amending and supplementing this law that is before us, the Law on Local Elections. In fact, we are witnessing some very unfair proceedings during election campaigns and, of course, after election campaigns. This proposal that is ahead of us is trying to influence the next election cycle. Otherwise, it is not good when any law of this kind changes during the election year itself or in the pre-election period, but here it is before us and will not further improve the situation on the Serbian political scene, it will not facilitate the election cycle. What we have proposed to our amendment to Article 2 to stay for a maximum of 90 days for the election campaign, I think it is far too much and that a 60-day cut is something that makes local elections more difficult. We think that because in local elections we expect political parties that are profiled, clear and known to citizens to appear first and foremost. But local elections, unlike the republican elections, need some citizens who do not want to settle into any political option and want to be useful to their environment, so they have the opportunity to run for office and show what they can, what they know, what they want and what they want and to achieve some of their ambitions in this regard. It is their 60-day election deadline that is too short. It's too short for citizens to recognize, to prove and be chosen. Something that is optimal is 90 days, for a newly formed informal group of citizens, to convince their fellow citizens of their good intentions and that these intentions can later be realized. This is what we thought as a political party that it is right in the local elections that we should allow citizens – to choose those who are not political. First of all, it's important because in previous local elections we had a very unkind experience. Otherwise, local elections are repeated in some municipalities several times during an election cycle. So they're not the same as the Republic elections. We had one unpleasant situation that in less than 90 days, when the parliamentary majority was formed, that is, when the parliamentary majority was agreed, in less than 90 days, in over 60 municipalities, the electoral will of citizens was torn down, exactly according to what happened at the republican level and forced citizens to change local government somewhere. As far as I know, in just one case, in one municipality, I think it's the Municipality of Apatin, the mayor has gained strength and maintained what is the electoral will of the citizens, not changing anything in principle above the agreed new situations and principles or non-principle coalitions. That's what we've been handling by proposing this amendment of ours that's been rejected. But from this proposal that we have and following everything that has been adopted, that is, only the amendments proposed by the government itself and not by any MPs, we do not see that the local elections here will solve in this way and with these changes and additions what cancels the principle of democracy, which will make political trade impossible, which will make citizens more secure and more confidential to the institutions of this kind. So this bill doesn't offer it and it doesn't guarantee it. I think that at least in the local elections this law should have allowed citizens to have a greater desire, greater security, a greater will to run as someone who is not classified in political camps, political parties, and wants good to his community, can do it well and have something to implement it with. I think that we are obliged as a state, as some democracy that is being promoted, to enable every citizen in Serbia to - to choose and be chosen, to encourage him to go to the elections, to promote his wishes, to promote the needs of his environment, to convince citizens that he is the one who can realize it, whether he is in any political party or not. It will also be very educational for political parties, which will be able to monitor citizens' needs everywhere. The political parties usually have their legitimate right to run, to implement it differently, and I think that this 90-day election deadline that has been in place so far has been able to make citizens more useful and thus make them more sure that they can run and do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58434	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58435	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Minister Markovic came out of the O.R. because he is a longtime minister, a lawyer, and I wanted to speak to him personally, who is the representative of this bill before the government of the Republic of Serbia. But to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, we, on the last side of the reasoning of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Local Elections, have a kind of lesson, i.e. an interpretation that this law is in line with EU laws and regulations, which is strongly opposed to the SRS. This is a direct order from the Brussels office to pass such a law, namely to make this change, which goes to a complete collapse of both the political and constitutional system in our country. If all of this were true, if you had paid attention to all of you present in the hall, in this explanation of compliance with EU regulations, or the order of Stefan Phil and all of your mentors, the name of the law stands nicely in English, although it is in our traffic, that is, sir, Cyrillic letter and Serbian language, but you had to indicate it specifically because in order otherwise for those who govern Serbia, which is certainly not the government that needs to be sovereign and who should maintain the will of the citizens, to order you to bring something like this. Mr. Markovic, as the minister representing this portfolio, all of us in the hall, every minister in the government, every Serbian citizen who knows the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must know that the core of a political system in the country makes a strict division of power. We, too, formally in our country, have a division of power into legislative, executive and judicial authority, but it is obvious that the legislative authority cannot defend the citizens of Serbia who are the holders of sovereignty in our country against this will, or from your subjection to the EU, to all those who, together with you systematically, have been destroying our country for 11 years. However, if we are looking at in a broader sense, we need to know that the constitutional system is something that is the bearer of constitutional democracy in one country, which should be sovereign, which should choose its own organs, start from local self-government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And these basic factors in the constitutional order and constitutional system of our country, the political system, are completely affected by this amendment and by the addition of the law, which Mr Martinovic spoke of as an authorised representative of the SRS and as a professor of law school. Because the Constitution here in Article 5 is completely suspended, and Mr Markovic was one of the advocates of the adoption of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it is also for the law, which he now says is bad, by order from Brussels, almost voted with two hands, i.e. he was before the Democratic Party a member of the working group, or commission that produced the basic law on local self-government and local elections. What kind of an ex post is that, by the looks of it, mind? So how did you think and realize that political parties should not manage MPs and parliamentary mandates, but open one market for tycoons, for criminals, for all those who want to end political will? How do you go now to the closure and lists of MPs and local self-government, and to say that this is more democratic and that it is much better, that the committee and MP should be the owner of their mandate? He, on a proposal to amend and supplement this law, teaches the President of the Assembly his resignation, when you know very well that Article 5. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees and recognises the role of political parties in democratically forming the political will of citizens, and that the establishment of political parties is free. Article 102, whole 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has suspended the new Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which is now analogous and applied to the amendment and addition of this bill, says nicely that the MP, therefore also a committee member, is free to, under certain conditions, unrelentingly put his mandate at the disposal of the political party, whose proposal was also elected as a MP. It is best that you come here to the Assembly with a bill to abolish political parties, i.e. to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to say - we do not need. Enough are Tadic, Nikolic and other brothers to listen to Western orders, to destroy Serbia, to agree with the tycoons through this new Law on the financing of political parties, whether Miskovic or Beko will give more to Nikolic, or Tadic, the Democratic Party and that Dinkic is spreading its story about some regions that are a dangerous political project for Serbia's federalisation tomorrow, to create some new autonomy, or God forbid, the republic. We are coming into a situation that now, after the Constitutional Court's decision, which, according to all the legal theorists, those who spend their whole life dealing with the constitutional system of one, such as Serbia, which should be a modern, orderly, democratic country, should have, in some sense, that control function, or that as an independent branch of government, it does its job. But the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has decided to act as a political court, to lift the blank resignations by order of the outside, that the mandates belong to the councils, and since that happened, a general chaos has arisen in Serbia. Don't think, first of all, about your coalition partners in cities and municipalities, after stealing the mandate from the two -- Nikolic-Vucic, who won the Serbian Radical Party in local elections, such as in Kragujevac, where we were stolen 10 mandates in the town hall, where the will of citizens was directly violated, that it would be stolen only by the Serbian Radical Party on the head, and of course not. There, as the town of Kragujevac, where we stayed with eight councilors, found the strength and will of the voters who expressed to us in the 2008 elections, we are the same with such intensity, although only eight of us, continued to defend and protect the interests of the citizens of Kragujevac. See where you are? See where the Democratic Party is in certain cities in Serbia? Did you protect the will of the voters? Of course you didn't, because you sent your message, or the Constitutional Court of Serbia, to each of them -- here you are now on the market, so who's going to hire you a child, so who's going to hire your daughter, son, wife, who's going to make you asphalt, allegedly, that street, to get you a job and a deal in a public enterprise, and simply, there's been a rasonomyade that's just about to produce complete chaos and complete destruction after the next election. The Serbian Radical Party, even though this is an anti-constitutional law and directly violates, suspends all values that a democratic society needs, of course it will not have a problem. All that was not good, and above all, led by Nikolic, left the Serbian Radical Party. First of all, I mean that tycoon duo, Nikolic-Vucic. Normal people, people who realized that they were wrong, that it was a big scam, that they were paid by tycoons, that they were killed in crime and corruption, as it turned out after the elections in the Voždovac municipality, through the "Profiller team", how they were laundering money, what those two and their associates, such as Stefanovic and others, simply those who remained consistent with the ideology of the Serbian Radical Party, respected everything that our president does and how he fights in The Hague, of course they will remain consistent until the end and be people we can always count on, regardless of where the position is on the list under such law, and that the will of the voters that we are told in the elections, when they are elected as committees and MPs, to protect the interests of voters. You ask yourself a little, especially you have cause for concern, and you, Mrs. Comic, and your colleagues from the Democratic Party. You don't know how many factions there are anymore. Here, you're from Novi Sad. The pal's pulling on one side. You now have some central-Serbian lobby. Gilas is now going through this whip and replacing cities and municipalities, bringing his young staff to individual places, as is the case in Kragujevac with the shift of the president of the City Committee. It's your inner thing, but don't be sure some of them won't, or tycoons who are less famous in these larger cities, and in the smaller environments, knock on your door and buy you some councilmen. And about the MPs, we're just gonna talk about it and you're gonna grab your head. I mean, you don't care, because you don't care. If this interesting lobby appears, and you heard Milan Beko on one show, he who is a friend of Nikolic and who pays him and who said – so what, I have already started lobbying in the European Parliament, that certain laws in Serbia are passed at my will. You have one such statement. You also have a statement on the show of Jugoslav Cosic, Stanko Subotic, Canet Zapca, which gave Nikolic and Vukic the first five million euros to betray Vojislav Seselj and make this so-called Serbian Progressive Party, which says – yes, it is my money and I can do what I want. I am a man who is a citizen of Switzerland, although a red Interpol warrant has been called after him, and tomorrow the Cane Frog will be unhindered by his money to buy MPs. So will the Ship's lobby in the future work to create at some point such a majority in the Serbian Parliament, to recognise the so-called Cypriot state of Kosovo. These are all dangerous political projects, so the Raška region, then the Vojvodina goes on forever. Then you think, "What then, they will be chosen by the councils in the congregations of the cities." They'll take care of it by political parties. That is what Mr Markovic said as an explanation for the amendment to this law, that those who win the most votes in their local communities and polling stations will be represented. But who are you to interfere in such a way in a sovereign way both by the Constitution and by the political party's law, to determine order and to abolish resignations in such a way, to open up the possibility that within three months, and six months, the government, again, has been transferred to you by the head of many cities, in municipalities in Serbia. This unfortunate man, Nikolic, who betrayed Vojislav Seselj and something that he apparently faked for 18 years, who received all that money from the tycoon and the entire mafia, was left by councillors in cities where elections were held, these extraordinary local elections, such as in Negotin, and in Bor, and in Gracanica, or Pristina and so on. So, people who have been aware of that, that the ideology of the Serbian Radical Party, those who were members of the Serbian Radical Party for many years, is something they have to fight for. Because we are the only political party to fight against these abnormal laws that come from the European Union, and from all those who directly order you to do what you have to do. These people return more and more each day to Serb radicals. Be assured, first of all, that we are consistent, that we are persistent in what I have been saying 20 years ago, since the first local elections, since 1992, when they were implemented in municipalities and cities, and above all because we know where you're going to crash, or where you're taking Serbia -- into an ambience, and that you don't care about the will of the voters coming out, rounds the name of a political party and its bearer, of course we'll vote against this law. I wish you didn't comply with that will of the Venice Commission. The first time you've done it by amending and supplementing the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliament, and now by copying that same law, it's here. Not to be confused, since there have been various delusions by Serbian citizens from representatives and heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, so it came to us from the Venice Commission, so we must, it's simply not true. Finally, we learned that some of the two officials, to call them that at the Venice Commission, had looked at the first proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the selection of MPs. It wasn't even for you, even though you received an ultimatum from the West of Brussels, from the Venice Commission, a strict ultimatum to adopt such a law on the selection of MPs since you wrote that you wanted to. Of course, those two people who work there and whose mentors are the same as yours said okay, let's now pass a law like this, and you have trampled the will of the citizens. In fact, you have shown that you do not care about this the moment you stole the mandates of the SRS after the 2008 elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58436	It was used 15 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that a member of 271 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which reads: "The right and duty of the Government to represent in the National Assembly when considering all issues of its jurisdiction shall be borne by the Prime Minister. The government determines the members of the government representing it on a specific issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. "The afternoon part of the work began, Mrs. Komic in...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58438	The People's Parliament and you and I know as well as I do that this member can't be...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58439	Excuse me, where does that say? What article says that some part of the Rules of Procedure can't be hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58440	People's MPs are obliged to listen to me when I explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58441	Can you listen to me? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58442	People's MP, thank you. This is the only way not to apply Article 103 as a whole. Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (Alexandar Martinovic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58443	Now you have injured Article 103, Mrs. Komic. If you'll excuse me, I'll quote it. "The MP is obliged to state which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the National Assembly president" – that is what I did, Article 271. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58444	National MP, Member of 279 cannot be injured during the session of the National Assembly. Does anyone else want a word? Please, now I'm warning you not to abuse your membership rights. 103, that you do not mock the procedure in which the word is sought, that it is spoken of injure the Rules of Procedure and that you do not mock the reputation of the National Assembly. The debate takes place in such a way that both you and everyone else are allowed to the upper limit of not talking about the agenda and I secondly warn you not to insist on giving criminal measures for conduct contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 3? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58445	I thank Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Mr. Minister is not here. The SNS amendment, a member of the Preferred Serbian SNS, refers to the abolition of the obligation of registered political parties, or, coalitions of registered political parties, that, when running for parliamentary candidates in local elections, they must collect or, to verify the signature, to provide support for 30 voters per proposed candidate for the committee. Before proposing this amendment, the Prosperity Group has made good use of Serbia, and what is bad is that such a solution and such a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections brings. The only good thing about collecting signatures is that party infrastructure is rocking and, in my humble opinion, a certain qualification for the committee lists is a man who wants to run for a committee of some unit of local self-government, municipality or city, and can't provide support for 30 of his fellow citizens, I don't think he should be on that list. And that's good. But what's wrong is what's on the other one that's overrun. It is bad that this is a continuation of the harassment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of those citizens who struggle daily with existential problems, with unemployment, with a lack of perspective in Serbia. We're going to take these citizens through various offices, court or municipal, and instead of making some money that day, trying to secure a existence for their family, to feed their family, tens and tens of thousands of citizens are going to waste time during the overing of these signatures. I will remind you that these are the same citizens we have already animated, have already called and received support and signature when registering political parties. I would ask, I also wanted to ask Mr. Minister, but I will ask all the MPs present in the room to meet for at least a moment and to put themselves in a position of the average citizen of Serbia. Imagine how a regular man will feel when his colleague is on one of his election lists, a neighbor on the other, a schoolmate on the third, a godfather on the fourth, a cousin on the fifth, and perhaps for some intimate reasons, he, for his reasons, will support and perhaps vote on the sixth list for the council. To whom the average Serbian citizen will give his signature and support when his godfather, cousin, friend or schoolmate doesn't get angry, because all of them, if not a voice, at least expect the signature and support. Why should we continue to expose the citizens of Serbia to such inconveniences because for whom Serbian citizens will vote, it is a secret. However, this procedure is too transparent for the level of democracy that is in Serbia. On the other hand, the more dangerous it is, there are no rare cases of any kind of ignoring and revenge against Serbian citizens who have supported other candidates for the council, some others by the rule of the opposition list. People were left out of work, no municipal facilities were built in their area, could not employ children unless, of course, they were under the authority of the right political party, or if they supported the signatures by opposition political committees, opposition committee papers. If it is well known that in Serbia over the past 15 years in power in most municipalities and cities, in most units of local self-government, the democratic party is clear who has served these things and whose signature is below such anomalies. I am sure that this legal solution will further reduce the confidence of Serbian citizens in both the political system and the political parties in Serbia and, of course, the SNS does not want to participate. If the legislator, however, was the financial moment crucial, because during the verification of all those tens and tens of why, and not hundreds of thousands of signatures, no under-income of Serbia's budget was achieved, then you could have solved it in a much more elegant way. For example, for a unit of local self-government of a municipality or a city that has 50 committee members instead of collecting and verifying thousands and 500 signatures, a registered political party or coalition of registered political parties during and handing over lists could have the obligation to pay 75 thousand dinars. In this way, Serbian citizens would spare unnecessary waste of time, Serbia's budget would have some income and everyone would be happy. Also, I cannot agree with Mr Markovic's findings, Milan Markovic, the minister, who presented the debate in principle, and I listened carefully to his presentation, which is that this bill is not more quality because there is no good will in parliament and that all of us MPs are responsible, equally responsible for it. This seems to me to be a sort of divergence of responsibility because it is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to ensure for its legislative proposals the congregation majority in continuity, and not ad hoc, this just seems to me to be the chronic signs of disharmonicism that I think has been ruling since the beginning in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I agree that this bill should and could have been significantly better, but that the opposition is responsible for an insufficiently good law, I really can't agree with that. I think it is necessary to call things in Serbia a real name, which is that this bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Local Elections is not good enough, because there was no agreement within the ruling coalition. In the end, I will try not to be more rude before, but this amendment of the SNS also represents a kind of throwing a glove in the face, and not gloves in the face of Mr Markovic, as a legislator, because he has delivered his opinion on the issue of local elections in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. Of course, this is not directed towards colleagues from opposition political parties, because I am sure if he does not overcome the vanity he will accept and vote for such an amendment by the SNS. The glove has been thrown into the face of some fellow MPs from the party who have been participating in power, who have been in the debate in principle deliberately advocated the abolition of these 30 signatures per committee candidate. This is an opportunity to vote for the SNS amendment to do something like that. Otherwise, apart from the soft message they sent to their activists on the ground with Serbian citizens, they will leave the impression that they think one thing, speak the other, and all three work. That's why I ask you once again to vote in voting day, I assume it will be tomorrow, accept the SNS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58446	Five minutes and 40 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58447	The Honorable Chairman, a very important member of the law that actually speaks in what way it has been thought, when the solution in this law has been defined. Of course, this is what I want to remind the Secretary of State that we had a completely different discussion with and on the Committee on Local Self-Government. We heard the information that this refers to groups of citizens, then the minister in the debate said in principle that it actually refers to political parties. The essence of this problem that we are discussing today and this member is that in every way possible, political parties are disabling and their role in political life. In what way? All solutions when viewed as one whole are not contradictory to one another, but in practical application when all comes into realisation, it is difficult now to see the consequences of certain local self-governments. What do you get with this solution? Thirty signatures per candidate on a political party list. You have made such a solution that we have a closed list and that the mandate of the committee is free at the time when the assembly and the unit of local self-government determines that mandate. The role of political parties, according to your bill, is just to be one, as you would call it, one channel until you get a mandate. None of the candidates on the committee list have to collect those signatures. There's no obligation. There's only 30 signatures per candidate. In some political parties or parts of political parties and individual committees less organised, a large number of candidates and signatures are collected only by organisations of the political party. Imagine the situation and the absurdity you've made. The candidate does not have to collect signatures for himself, nor does he have to participate in the campaign, simply enough to get on the list of existing committees. That's the absurd you made here. The second thing is that I do not agree absolutely with the argument given here for refusing the amendments that the indication of the bill, I also think of the Law on political parties, that registrations are being made, that signatures are being collected because, as we say here, political parties, and coalitions of political parties. Gentlemen, we've had a debate here about the Political Party Act. It was here that there was an advocate by the minister to carry out both control and registration of municipal and city committees, which was an incursion absolutely into the freedom of political organisation. After that, the RS government failed, will now return it to political parties by forcing local elections to collect signatures. It's absolutely something amazing. You're breaking your own law here in the National Assembly. At the end of the line, we didn't get a reason here to apply it, as we didn't get an explanation, and it's very incorrect to write it, when it comes to an amendment that refers to a reduction in the deadline for local elections. It refers to the RS Constitution. Gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines deadlines for the election of MPs. Find me a member of the RS Constitution that talks about the deadlines for selecting the council members in the local self-government units. It doesn't exist. Look at the absurd you came to, trying to adapt this law to the Law on Amendments to the Law on People's MPs. The same minister, Mr. Milan Markovic, defended the Law on Local Elections in December 2007 and defended the 90-day air term as a deadline for holding elections. At that same time, in December 2007, the same constitution was in force. A constitution that doesn't talk about those deadlines. Now after three and a half years, the same minister comes here and explains that he needs to be brought into line with the Constitution. Why this was not done in December 2007 when the RS Constitution was in effect for a year and something was in effect. I remember that debate within that task force that was formed, on which I participated, that there was no deadline. It is simply that the intention here is obvious, if the elections are planned together, that, past the Constitution and beyond all provisions, these deadlines are in line both for the election of the MPs and for the election of the councillors. This fact that you're driving political parties and you're turning them into simple, give them a role like this, which probably doesn't exist in any democratic country. It's an example that you're devising the election. The key elections will, by your law, be elections on municipal and city councils. It's a key election. Lobbing on city and municipal committees. Whoever singles out most of them to be at the top of the list, that election is over. He doesn't have to collect signatures, he doesn't have to share any flyers, he doesn't have to see any of the citizens. He can go on vacations or winters, when there's an election, so no one can see him, he'll be a councilman. That's the result of what you've done. It's just enough to have enough power within its city and municipal board. You've come up with a complete election. What do citizens choose? They choose absolutely nothing and no one. When they see the list, this list, here is Mr. Minister, whether there are statistics on how many citizens have ever looked at the list that was the subject of elections in some local, list and parliamentary elections, and how many citizens have looked at the lists of all political parties, coalitions, who participate in local elections in some environments to see who the candidates are. I think that's the problem. Citizens see the list holder and his name on the ballot. It's something that's actually happening. Now the candidate doesn't have to go through any single household, he doesn't have to kill himself within his own party for a mandate, to get, to make a result, to make a better result than his colleagues on the board list, to say, on the basis of the results, that you're going to be a boardman because you've made the result in a middle. So there's no competition inside the list. Between candidates within the political party, I am not saying that there is no competition between political parties, except for that global competition, because in fact all elections will take place so that citizens, given that the elaborate way of the local election campaign, will be seen as voting at the central level. Those who vote for the list at the republican level will likely vote in local elections, not knowing any candidates in the local elections. Therefore, you have reduced the elections to the elections within the parties and only to the meetings of the city and municipal committees that will decide, and you have excluded the citizens from any decision-making process and two key pillars of the parliamentary system, which is the participation of citizens and the choice of citizens and political parties, as bearers of political life, you have completely excluded. Other committee members who have won the term of office by being strong in their party are free to make their political will available now, probably according to their political interests. So I'd like to ask the Minister a question. The first question is, where does the Constitution say a 60-day deadline for elections for local self-government, since here and in the rejection of amendments and the reasoning of the law call for that deadline? On the other hand, the Law on Political Organisations is such that it is absolutely enough that the political party is registered, according to collected signatures that it can participate in political life at any level. Find me in this law a provision that excludes this right of political parties and requires them to collect signatures at another level at which elections are held. That's what I'd like to hear, which is a provision that excludes it and says political parties have to collect signatures for local elections, not for parliamentary elections. So you've spread too much here to interpret certain norms or, at the very least, imagine that there are these standards, although in reality they exist, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the Law on Local Elections and in the Law on Political Parties. It is here, as Minister Markovic said, his view of what things should look like. That's something different than what the law says, and the Political Party Act says, you're registered, you're involved at all levels. So, you've made a bad bill here, Mr. Minister. It's a patch of various, as you say, standards, which in their common application lead to a catastrophic state that will certainly shake local self-government after the next election, but above all exclude citizens from the election, even though we said it was a key thing. Especially in no way did you motivate, how often you are here and in the discussions we have spoken, an internal political competition. At this point, with this bill, it absolutely doesn't exist anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58448	It's been used ten minutes since the authorized representative's time. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58449	So far, I've heard a few basic topics about amendments, actually topics that were basic, when amendments were submitted. So, as far as signings are concerned, the signatures have been collected so far and nothing is new. Even though I wasn't in the O.R., I heard in the transmission, and, well, they're harassing the citizens, harassing the parties. To tell you the truth, I don't feel sorry for the parties at all for being harassed, and for the citizens, I'm sorry, of course. Simply, the signatures must be collected because, despite our wishes and expectations, 75 parties have been registered and more than 40 national minorities. You when you're in power, you cancel the signatures, so keep your ballots and organise the election in, and I don't know where to organize them. If you think you can organise elections from 70 parties to 70 lists in each unit of local self-government, that it's cheap for the state and that citizens will not be harassed then, you make such elections. Since that is not possible, signatures must continue to be collected, until one day the number of registered parties is reduced to something that is normal and rational. One day they'll come to that. So, collecting signatures is necessary. There has been until now, there will be, and in the future, and these signatures must be certified, there is no dilemma. Whenever there was a collection of signatures that weren't certified, there were abuses. That's what we talked about last time, so let's say, one candidate amongst the people who support his candidacy and has leaders of another political party. It was so unserious, it was everything, and that's why since I've introduced these signatures, that as much as we're serious about this policy of ours. Our policy suffers from a lot of problems and a lot of pain. One problem, one pain is these doubts about processes, procedures, entities that lead, etc. That's why we've changed a few laws, and hopefully some other laws will change in the future, so these deficits that exist undeniably, when it comes to legitimacy, will be corrected over time. As for the signature, they have to collect. If there were 15 parties in the register, we'd definitely bet that registered political parties don't collect signatures, but they don't, which doesn't mean they won't be. In time, it will come, given that the Law on Political Parties has made such a mechanism that every eight years there is a purification of registers by automation and I believe that it will quickly come into a situation that we have a far smaller number of political parties. But if we consider that we had 620 before this law, this is excellent progress. So, almost ten times we've got less. If it's ten times less in eight years, I'd be happy to be five times less, it doesn't have to be ten times less. As for the blank resignations, I really don't understand why you're so sad about those blank resignations. First of all, this law does not introduce itself to the fact that there are no blank resignations. We already live in a system where there are no blank resignations, the Constitutional Court has made such a decision. I can't understand at all that we need to discuss the Constitutional Court's decision right now. She's who she is, we might like her, we don't have to like her, but we can't be politicians, especially as lawyers, to discuss what the Constitutional Court has decided. He decided the Constitutional Court as he decided, there are no blank resignations, and he closed the list at the same time, and that's that. We can't make a law any different than that now. We're not going to write in the law - there are blank resignations. That's one side of that medal. That's at least one reason why we shouldn't mention that story and discuss it. I'm glad to hear that there's an opinion here that what the Constitutional Court brings in doesn't matter. It's a relationship to the state, to the rule of law that you have as your own experience. I don't see that thing. I think the Constitutional Court decisions are here to be respected. If the Constitutional Court said it was an unconstitutional blanco resignation, it is unconstitutional and so must civilised people live. I think we're all civilized here. So the Constitutional Court can't do one thing and we can't do the other. Then why the Constitutional Court? Then we don't need the Constitutional Court. Then we end everything and transfer everything to the top of the political parties, all the authorities, and then we don't need anything. I'm pretty surprised when we need to discuss that we have a Constitutional Court decision, and that decision, I don't know what to do with it, that we don't respect it, that we're making a law where we go directly against that decision, etc. I have to admit, it's very hard for me to understand. The other thing is general when it comes to blanco resignation. So it's some institute we had. It was due to the time we lived in, the agreement of political parties, and now obviously the expert public, the Constitutional Court, and the International Community simply thinks that such agreements cannot usurp the will of citizens and the freedom of people's voters. I have to admit, I totally agree. There can't be any blank resignations. It's obviously something that makes it possible, unlike you, I think exactly the opposite, that it's something that allows corruption, but that big, real, systemic corruption. I think it's precisely an instrument of a blank resignation condition that you have, that is, the reason why you have a very often irresponsible executive authority in local self-government, that it's precisely why there's not enough responsibility for elected persons to citizens. So that's something that represents our professional public, which is the standard in the international community, which is someone my most honest opinion is. So I don't have any dilemma that we should end the blanco resignation. I don't know, the right to tell you why they would exist. Blanko's resignation specifically means that citizens are asked once in four years, elected by some people, and then an individual, the party president takes from all of these people across Serbia 8,000 resignations, puts in his pocket and assumes full power, sovereignty from the citizens takes over himself, or the political party. That's it, the political parties have taken sovereignty over from the citizens. What, then, as an executive official, do I have to think and explain to the MPs tomorrow, if I have all these resignations in my pocket right here on the left? It's a system of blank resignations. It means that I, as executive authority, can behave as I will, that I can deal with corruption, that I can make bad laws, that I can not come to the Assembly. Then the People's Messenger rebelled and said, "I think this is wrong, and I say, "You are no longer an apostle; now is the Messenger of Pera who will not rebel." It's a system of blank resignations, what do we lie about? That's the living truth. In this way, political parties have taken over from the citizens. It's a condition for corruption, because I can work out what I want and how I want and do what I want and how I want, without any control. Well, the elemental thing is that someone's controlling me. We have a parliament where the opposition and the authorities sit, where there should be such responsibility, a public word, an expression of some thinking, that someone represents someone's interests, and also an MP from Nis to represent the interests of the citizens of Nis and an MP from Belgrade to the citizens of Belgrade, etc. In the situation with the blank resignations, the MP simply sits and represents his own personal interests, to continue sitting there, so that no blank resignation would activate, drive him home and bring someone else to his place. In a practical sense, I think the blank resignations are very harmful. They only benefited from the political party at the very top of the political party, which has one completely comfortable position, because it has everything and everything. They're the only ones who could use a blank resignation and no one else. So, if you have any objections within your party to something, you have to make sure that what you have a remark is not some question of the man holding all your blank resignations in his pocket. So, the critical thought is choking, everything is choking, no talking, no discussion, no responsibility, no need to be better and better. Why would I try to be a better and better minister when I don't care? I have the blank resignations of everyone in my pocket and I can do whatever I want and however I want. So, blanco resignations are, in my opinion, one very, very bad thing. Local self-government is in a much worse state than it was in the '90s. In the 1990s there was a different electoral system, there were certain responsibilities, the committees were serious people, I'm not saying they weren't today, but they could stand up and tell the president of the municipality -- that's not good, that and that, so the president of the municipality has to imagine what he's going to do, because if he doesn't, that same board won't vote for his budget tomorrow. So, give the power of the arguments, the executive power must convince the council and MPs to support it, by the power of the arguments to implement the policy they have advocated, in which they are united, for some set of ideas, etc. Next, that story about people being poor now, so they're bribery, that offends people. Who, then, is poor, corrupt? It's absurd. Probably because they weren't corrupt, that's why many people are poor. So that's not the way to look at things and again, in the end, if we're going to discuss it, then we can say: if bribery is the rules in our society, if we experience life like that, that's all the money, how do you throw it now, if that's how we experience it, then it's just a question of who wants to deal with corruption? Someone suggests that it be a party summit so big it works, and it's like countering this tends for people to be free in parliament. Yet I'm not afraid of this alleged corruption that someone will buy the councils, I'm more afraid of the corruption of the executive authority that's in a situation where you have a blank resignation is completely controlled. If you suspect that someone has issued a building permit in a municipality, let me see this committee member of the ruling coalition who is allowed to tell his president – there is an illegal permit here and here. Is it true what's being said around town? Is it true you took the money? Well, no one can say. Because the president of the municipality has the resignation of that in his pocket and will replace him tomorrow. So that's the difference. That's why I think blanco resignations have been very harmful to our society so far. I'm glad we don't have any more blank resignations. I must say, when the Constitutional Court, despite the problems it caused in the application of the law, abolished those blank resignations, I was very happy. It was not necessary to be very smart and to realize that there will come a time when our Constitutional Court, but certainly the pressure of the international community will lead to the abolition of the blank resignations. We have defined ourselves as a journey to the EU, a society of countries that do not tolerate political parties as we see them, as masters of all life in Serbia. A political party can't be a master of life entirely. She is a political factor, she is a pillar of political organisation, but she cannot be a master of political life. There must be a citizen as an individual. And last time in the debate, I said, if we look at the imaginaryly this political power corps in one society, it is unchangeable and is 100% of the total political power. Now the question is how is she deployed? In the system that we have been growing so far, this political power has been deployed by the fact that political parties had 99% of that political power. If political parties have 99% political power, it is logical that other entities, primarily citizens, can only have one percent. It's very clear here. To increase the political power of citizens, political power of political parties must be reduced. The great power of political parties is at the heart of the political power of citizens, and this is all due to the electoral system we have had, especially those famous blanco resignations that have obviously led to the political party taking over sovereignty from its citizens. So I wouldn't regret much of those blank resignations. They're an undeniable past and they'll never come back. There's no dilemma. Someone asked – what political system, electoral system? I only know reliably that there is no electoral system in any modern society with blank resignations. Maybe now we have 193 countries in the world, but we're talking about systems and societies like ours, in which we kind of see ourselves, which are some of our pandas in cultural terms, geographically, etc. Therefore, political parties have to get used to new circumstances, the new circumstances are very clear, which is that they have to take care of the candidates they offer to the citizens, they have to count on these candidates to have the right to sometimes vote for a decision they like, and sometimes against some decision, they can't count on when they get 30% of the electoral body, then they can do whatever they want and turn society upside down, because someone might rebel. So political parties have to run for quality people, it has to be true what we say in the elections. When the elections are all of us saying that our candidates are the most moral, the most honorable, the most honest, and in two months, this one has gone somewhere for 1,000 euros. Now we would if we didn't have any responsibility or any damage to it, and a month ago we lied to people and said he was the most moral and fairest. Let's be a little correct, some responsibility political parties have to take over for it. Let all local leaders think now. I don't know why you're so worried about it, because your party, like any other, has a problem with local branches. I see it best through the Ministry's work, and I've had experience in party activity for 16 years, so I know everything that can happen in the party. I've seen everything. So this is good, because the higher level of responsibility in every municipal committee that exists and every local leader will have to involve the brain a little more when selecting the personnel, selecting who they're going to, what they're going to do. Let's move on to the electoral system now. Is he any good? The electoral system is as this congregation is prepared to adopt. I don't think it's good, I'd rather we went to some personalized system, because it would be more appropriate to the system without softly leaving. Normally, to be a better personalised system, the councilman would be directly tied to the citizens who voted him, etc. It's just that there's not enough majority to adopt it. What's new about that? What most of them were for, the National Assembly gave a clear signal two months ago through the Law on the Selection of MPs. It's a clear signal that this is a law that can pass the Assembly. It's okay, this is a big move forward, but the paper in this law isn't any newspaper. This is just formalization, just a reaction to what we had through the Constitutional Court Decision. Is the list locked? It is locked by the Constitutional Court's decision. I don't know why there's so much need to talk about it. This law is within the limits of what the Constitutional Court has said, what already exists in our lives, and that is why the amendment of my colleague, Nemanje Sarovic, was adopted, if I am not mistaken, because man has clearly noticed – how has the delayed application, since we already have a Constitutional Court decision? Nothing in this law has or ever happened has just confirmed what the Constitutional Court has already said – there are no blank resignations, lock lists. Then this is added to the less represented sex. This – 60 days, this is the most terrible topic, the minister defended a 90-day period four years ago. I didn't defend it back then for 90 days, and I'm not defending this one for 60 days. It was logical for me to comply with what was written in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and there is a copy of the Constitution. What's the big deal? If I could, now I'd take 90 days, it's all one thing. Is that so important? It's kind of logical, if it's 60 days here, so be it here, because we have a practice of pushing all the choices together, because it's the easiest thing for us to say in front of TV cameras it's cheaper, and if it's really better, we'll never talk about it openly. We can talk about it when there's no cameras. Because we're all prone to demagogy, we'll all say – all elections go together, it's cheaper, although we all know it costs a lot more over the next four years than that elections are separate. It's politics in Serbia. It is very difficult to say the word when someone first stabs the flag and says – this is cheaper, and as cheap as it is applied by automation. So whether it's 60 or 90, it's completely irrelevant. Let it be as it is in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, let's have at least the same deadlines, easier for people to get along, easier for citizens to understand, it's easier for us who do this to know that deadlines are the same everywhere. Why don't they be the same? I don't think that's some subject we have to break a spear on. If there were 90 days left, maybe someone would have stood up here and said, "Why didn't you put 60 here when it's 60?" So it's to fill the time. Basically, I think this law brings good things, things that the Constitutional Court has already given us as standards that the National Assembly has already accepted. Regarding the Administrative Court, what is the practice of the Administrative Court, what is the alternative? That we don't have judicial protection? Judicial protection of the mandate is something we adopted three, four years ago as a standard. It's the right thing to do, it shows extraordinary results. Whether the Administrative Court has no good practice now, or what is, I agree that there was a dropout, I signed a few letters, I suggested that some counselling be organised to bring this practice of the Administrative Court in line, etc. Because it's just amazing that the administrative court that was set up for the territory of the entire Republic doesn't have the same practice, and we had 95% or 96% of the uniformity when it was done by county courts. The fact is, it's perfectly normal for us to expect 100% of the equation here. But we hope that the Administrative Court will levelen that practice. Now we even have the situation and that he called incompetent, which was a complete shock when we got those decisions. But it's something that's a matter of court practice now, so maybe it's not good for me to do it as a minister. So basically that's it. I hope this doesn't stop, and I honestly believe, whatever most of it is, that this will continue in some next term. This continuation should go to the state election commission law and to change the electoral system, in order to avoid some of the negative things that have survived, which is that we can have MPs still from only one, as we do today from Zemun, we have 20 MPs. So, from one city council, we have 20 MPs, which is amazing. The fact is, we need to move on in election system changes. This is a good step. Some key things have been done. It even seemed to me that no change in the electoral system had been approached because some had hoped to survive the blank resignations, although it was clear that the blank resignations would not and cannot survive. If we'd kept up with what was obvious, or if we'd gone to events, we'd probably have changed the electoral system. You say – there was no majority. If there were 126 MPs here to change the electoral system, then you would say it is a shame that in a democratic state the electoral system is changing exclusively by the votes of the ruling majority. Let's be honest, you'd say that and that would really be one serious question – why is the electoral system changing with the votes of the ruling majority. Let's be realistic. The opposition had no hearing or desire to talk seriously about changing the electoral system. I have made my conversations clear and visited many opposition parties. It would be good if the ruling majority had a clearer and more direct attitude, she didn't have one, but let's be realistic. The opposition wasn't even very prepared to discuss such a big issue that it really needs to reach a little wider consensus but 126. The electoral system should have a little more support when it changes, not only should it be a free set of 126 votes. We accepted two amendments, one SNS and the other SRS. Both amendments are very good, and I expect that this amendment, which applies to the deadline reduction, is a bit of a controversial issue because it always raises the question of whether you by special law should establish procedural matters for the sake of courts and give some deadlines, but we have accepted that amendment because we think it is very useful that there is an exact limit within which the court will disburse the emerging situation in the units of local self-government. I think it's still the state's interest to settle these disputes quickly. We've accepted this 30-day deadline, and we expect the Administrative Court to respect that. Because it's just enough time to count who is and who is wrong and to know what the majority is and what is a minority in local self-government units. I'm saying -- we've accepted this amendment that's just talking about what I'm talking about right now. As for the blank resignation and the closed list, that's something the Constitutional Court found and that's one of the reasons why we shouldn't discuss it too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58450	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's how many discussions about 30 signatures per councilman, candidate for councilman. The Constitutional Court is often mentioned, and I can say that many presidents of the local self-government assembly have abolished the Constitutional Court. Many congregations have abolished the Constitutional Court because they have taken them and given them the right to be those who will decide whether to execute the Constitutional Court's decision or not. In order to end our famous reformed judiciary, the Constitutional Court, i.e. the Administrative Court, abolished the Constitutional Court, and as time goes by, it seems to me that the Constitutional Court is also slowly abolishing itself, so that we are slowly moving towards an unlawful and unjudicial state arrangement, because no one has ever answered for all these violations or violations of the law. Once we've cleared that up, maybe we can also move towards the proper arrangement of the state. But I'll talk about it when there's been an amendment to Article 9. Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government. Mr. Minister, the amendment submitted by the SNS, or 21 MP, was an opportunity to fulfill the promise you made to the National Assembly when a law was passed on political parties. Now, all of a sudden, because of the mistakes in the very way the laws are passed or the value of how long it takes for one political party to be registered, you condemn all local political organisations to collect signatures. To show what it looks like, I can tell you that some political parties are registered with fewer signatures than one political party in the Municipality of Velika Gradište, with 20,350 voters to collect certified signatures for the submission of a local list. If you wanted to mess with this, I think those criteria for the registration of political parties should have made them much stricter than they are now. Because, always someone, because of something of their own personal interest, will be dealing with a particular kind of name or positive discrimination to establish a political party. Come on, tell me - let's have 100,000 signatures, and let's finish this story. Why am I saying this? Because when one part of the law itself is bad in the electoral system, it takes place in the end and through the result in the elections itself. It's not a problem for the SNS to collect in all municipalities a sufficient number of signatures. At the moment, such a policy is a situation that is easy for us. And we're not talking about maybe because of a time when after who knows how many years it's gonna be hard for us, but anyone who's been involved in a local election campaign, in pre-election actions when it comes to running, collecting documents, and eventually declaring a list, knows what kind of irregularities, illegalities and various abuses are facing so that he can exercise his right. Can anyone really believe the next story, that only a few hours after the election shop starts to run someone brings in two thousand or 2,500 certified signatures from one of the verifyers, and there's a pattern that's perfectly correct and it got a few hours ago? You think that's possible? It's not. Absolutely not. - Who gave him a goo-goo? - I don't know. Who did this? The most common parties that make up power at that local level. They've already agreed on what the pattern will look like, they've already shared with their activists on the ground. They've already been verifiers who were ordered by the chiefs of the municipal administration to verify with a date since the election operations began. We want to talk about other things? Ensuring a certificate for the overture of the signature. That day first, you won't be able to file a request for the credentials until they start running election operations. If you were the first one in the office that morning, waiting for Peru to open the door for you, to submit a request for the assignment of the verifyer, and the first one to hand it over, after a few hours, you'll get an answer that in four, five or six days, they can assign you the verifyer, because the others, my God, were before you, I just don't know how. Should I say again that it's the parties that are in power? What's all this for? Well, for one simple reason -- b Ethan is a regular number on the ballot, that those in power, first the strongest party, be number one, weaker collective partner on number two, even weaker on number three, and the opposition on what remains. Well, sometimes it'll be a little bit. If I were to tell you that they were returning the signatures of citizens who were absolutely correct because the municipal electoral commission found that the signature of a citizen was not correct because its exact name and last name, because its exact address is the residence, because its electoral code is not the correct home number for one place because there was a permutation, but what the Constitution guaranteed is that every citizen has the right to choose, to support and be chosen. When we ask a question to go to the polls and vote whether they would give him the right to vote, he says, yes, but he cannot support it. That's why, Mr. Minister, you or some other colleague of yours must finally get in the way of abuse by local authorities when it comes to running. The collection of documentation, the assignment of the necessary forms, so it happens all over Serbia and don't let anyone act crazy that they don't know about it, it was just a matter of little goodwill to solve the problem. So either you accept that those political parties that are registered under the Political Party Act don't have to collect signatures, and if you think there are 72, 73, 74 parties, then pick up, let's collect another 90,000 signatures, that we finally register, and that we don't have to be victims of local authorities when we submit the electoral lists, so that they're on the first, second or third regular number, when it comes to the list. How hard is it to participate in a bar? Here, I mentioned one municipality, Big City, 20,300 registered voters. So it doesn't go with 200 certified signatures that it's a municipality of up to 20,000 voters, but 30 per candidate. The local congregation, I think, has 37 council members. So over 1,100 signatures for one single list. That's the problem. So, those big and strong organized political parties, they'll gather. Whether it's complete or not, but it'll collect, but anyone else who wants to participate and wants to collect signatures won't be able to do it. Moreover, according to the new Political Funding Act, deposits are also provided for which someone will have to pay if he does not cross a number of votes in some elections. I think it's quite enough protection mechanism for someone not to run, to get money from the municipal electoral commission, and to abuse all funds. As I said, Mr. Minister, with this amendment, you have the opportunity to fulfill the promise you made to the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia when there was a debate on the Law on Political Parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58452	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58453	So, I didn't promise we'd cancel the signatures. Of course I said it would be very good, to be one of the consequences of this law, but let's not say that the law on political parties was really, firstly necessary, because of the chaos in which the area was. We had 620 parties enrolled in the register, and it didn't know, there were dead, it was like this. There was no record or opportunity to resolve any disputes. It's just that there was an abnormal situation. About some transparency, about the obligations imposed by this new law, there was not a word. There were 100 untrusted signatures. Who knows which one of us is the founder of which parties? Maybe some joke was written by Veroljub Arsic as the founder of some party. I want to tell you what was the situation before we passed the law. There are a dozen things that we've solved and that are very good. What is the greatest value of this law is that the law is proactive. He predicted a system of self-regulation every eight years of registering political parties, which we never had before. So every eight years, there's a clean-up of this political scene, and no one has to think after us about passing such a law and what happens to the register. So every eight years it's being cleaned up. I wish it could have been right away to lift the signatures. There is a huge financial savings that is good for citizens and the state, etc., but it couldn't because the criteria we set out from 10,000 signatures and 1,000 signatures for the national minority parties obviously did not lead to the reduction of the number. Maybe it was too optimistic to think it would shrink from 620 to 25. I admit, maybe we were too optimistic. Today we have 45 parties of national minorities, but this is not the consequence of this law, but that in our system this kind of positive discrimination exists from before, and we have a constitutional provision that the level reached cannot be reduced. You see, time didn't start with us, some things like that exist. Now, instead of having a positive discrimination report, we have a positive discrimination on party registration. Okay, what do we do, I didn't make it up, it's something that's inherited by condition. Maybe for the next re-registration, that number will drop to 25, and then someone who's a minister will be able to say, "Here, I'll cancel the signatures." I'd be luckiest if I could say that, but it would have been inconclusive if I'd just said that for the sake of my popularity. Imagine who would answer everything then, so that would be a mess in polling stations, it would be 30, 40, 50 lists. When it's free, anyone would answer. One more thing is very important. We all know how much abuse there is. You can't get rid of everything by law. We can't legally solve what the party that's in power is going to use resources that shouldn't be used and make it the first one on the list. That's what we've changed, the order itself goes in alphabetical order, which is also a great advantage. No more running I'll go first, I'll go first, I'll go first and be first on the list. I can't remember every detail right now, but I think we just put it in alphabetical order. Generally, if it isn't, we can solve it, and that way we can solve the abuses, I really can't remember how to go on, when, again, someone's going to abuse. Well, we're not gonna cancel the signature because someone's willing to abuse that, are we? They're much worse abuses when you don't have certified signatures, then miracles just happen, at least this way you have certified signatures, so if someone tends to abuse that authority, to verify its signatures, what to do, something is a matter of political culture, something is also other state bodies. It's just, it's impossible to solve everything. Someone mentioned the issue of branches, and that's what I forgot to say earlier. I wanted the register to keep registers of restrictions, because the parties in Serbia are registered according to the territorial principle. That's why I wanted it because, when there's a break in a political party, you clearly determine from the branch register who are the branches that give delegates in accordance with the statute to form a congregation. Now we had a question of DHSS in which, to inform you, it was decided by rejecting both applications. Simply, both have significant shortcomings that no one can do. Basically, we have a very serious and big problem. You can't determine which set it is from which to determine what the majority is. That's why I wanted to. But the MPs here thought it was incurring the privacy of the parties. Be careful – the privacy of parties. What are parties? What kind of intrusion? I mean, that's one nonsense. They're not secret associations so you can't tell in the register who's chairman of the committee. It's like hiding from the state, because the state can't know. I think it's completely pointless. This is where the National Assembly didn't want to adopt it. The amendment was removed from what I suggested. And today we have what, I don't know who that means much to, but we also have a situation that the state will never be able to decide on some cases like this case DHSS, or maybe tomorrow some future party in which there is a dispute at the election assembly about the election of the party president, etc. But, how can I tell you, there's nothing I can do about it. I'm sorry that it wasn't adopted at the time, because that law would round it up completely and give one good basis that we don't have it. The purpose of all this is, again, to suggest that these doubts, the degradation of political life and people who deal with politics, institutions, be removed. For the past 20 years, we've had our doubts all the time, and the voter lists, and someone takes the CD of the ballot and takes it to the bathroom, and that's what the newspaper was all about. That's what I read today. He says he's famous for being Robin Hood. His name is Robin Hood because he took the voter's list and took it away. It's our political system. When I proposed this reform, the goal was to eliminate all such things that degrade this country's political life, as well as people who deal with politics. All this generally affects one general atmosphere of society, lack of enthusiasm, lack of responsibility, lack of trust, etc. In that sense, it's also an oversigned signature. 'Cause where you're going to go up there, when you've got stuff like that, so you're reading the paper, and these guys are messing with who signed it, etc. In my opinion, you should have done it and circled that whole system. The people’s congregation did not accept it, or most of them were not in favour of accepting it. I'm saying again, one day it'll work out. You're right. Math is weird and she's inexorable. When we put that up to 20 grand, over 20 grand, of course it's not the same everywhere, but how else do we solve that question? Secondly, the question arises – why in the proportional electoral system does someone insist on such a large number of committees in such a small environment? Look at this situation, Kikinda has three times as many voters, and has the same number of councilors or two more. But it's a matter of these local elites now. Simply, you can't legislate the political behavior of these local elites or politicians at all. You can't legislate that, and whether the president of the municipality is going to force the mayor of the municipal administration to open 07.01 hours and say, "You'll be waiting for that one and that one, take the signatures." There's no law to prescribe. It's the real life we live in, and neither can it be. Our law on local self-government went into so much detail that we laughed a lot when we did it. It was a joke to just prescribe that when the president of the assembly comes in and says, "Good afternoon." Malten, that's all you had to say. What's happening in our local self-government is a disaster. That's why we had to prescribe everything. We have literally prescribed everything – and when it can interrupt the session, because it was, there goes the awkward point. The president sees that he'll be replaced and said, "My stomach hurts." He leaves and doesn't schedule a session for three months. I mean, it was everything. That's why we had to stop all these situations by law. We stated, say, that the session must be interrupted by the majority, etc. That's why we got a pretty stable and good system of local self-government, which was seen when there was a problem at the time of the SRS, when the council went to both sides. Practically, that system survived. In total, I mean, the whole term that's coming to an end, it's the final year, I think we have seven total releases, if I'm not mistaken. In this year, I think we only have two or one. I don't know exactly. That's very good results. When you look at it, it's very small. In the previous years, we've had five, and in this year we've had one. When you look, you don't believe it. It was a disputed 620 terms. Imagine now 620 terms disputed, and nothing comes out of it and nothing happens, but you have 5-5-1. Basically, I think it's awesome and it's just unimaginable. As for the question of a return to office, the Constitutional Court's decision and the Constitutional Court Act is quite clear. The organ that made the decision had to be realized as well. Returning the mandate, unfortunately, is not what some have done. There was then a little misread by some departments of that administrative court. But it's quite clear that in case she took away SO, the mandates had to be returned. When it wasn't her, the Constitutional Court was supposed to return it, but now it's another topic. By the way, by promise, I brought it for the Dove, if you're interested. I didn't know either, I forgot the subject, but then I said I guarantee it was well done and I stood behind it, even though I don't remember the subject at all. It's just that the principle of working with us at the ministry has been such that since I was a minister, every item has been done the same and I'm allowed to guarantee, even though I don't remember the subject. In particular, when it comes to the Dove, we have two rulings of the administrative court, and before that, the judgment of the High Court of Justice of that time. All those verdicts claimed the number of the councilmen, who is the councilman and who is not, that Denić did not, and that this lady did. We as a ministry have simply added mathematics – 15 plus one is 16 and those 16 that were at that rally, we said they were committees. So the ministry worked exclusively on the decisions of the courts, and the courts all made decisions in accordance with the law. The error of the majority was that, persistently with the candidate for the committee, she seized the mandate, which is completely illegal, rather than, in the event that the mandate should be withdrawn, she should address the court that would take up the role, take up the mandate, and then those with the committee candidate could declare a new mandate. That's what I said later in some informal conversation. I remembered, in some ways, that there was some mistake in the very actions of the president of the congregation. I don't know why, but they didn't do well. So there was a mistake, and as far as the ministry was concerned, we were only doing it the way it was by the administrative court's orders. I say four decisions, two more, two administrative courts. All four say one thing: this gentleman is not a committeeman, and this lady is a committeeman. We, as a ministry, took that four court decisions and gathered where 16, where 15 is. Where there were 16, there we said it was a new congregation. Then, in accordance with the Law on the seal of state and other bodies, the person empowered by that assembly to have the seal, at its request, issued the seal, in accordance with the law that you claimed could not be stamped. The law says nicely in Article 14, that a missing or lost seal is also considered to be a seal that is not accessible to a person authorised to keep and use a seal. It's a provision that I've introduced, because I've had experience with it before, that people take the seal and take it away, so they won't give it away, and that's when the state couldn't react. These are all the changes we have made in familiarity with practice and what is happening with us in Serbia in real political life. If you want for the Dove, the bet still stands. So, I just made sure I brought it, so I didn't forget. A joke aside, I don't think that should be a topic right now. Anyway, I'm sorry we couldn't lift the signatures. I guess if I were you, no one would do it right now. This does not mean that during the next phase to clean up the party list, there will be no such number of parties left, that the removal of these signatures will be possible. In all other things, that law has fulfilled all our expectations. Really everything. I was just hoping there might be fewer parties. Obviously, these hopes were not based and I did not expect 45 parties of national minorities to register. They've been registered. It's on the other side and good. This is proof that our country is looking at national minorities and how affirmative the political views of national minorities in Serbia are in relation to, perhaps even, I would say these are the highest standards in terms of the political life that exists in the surrounding countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58454	The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58455	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we've opened up a serious debate right now and the fundamental question based on your presentation is how do you even see the role of political parties based on the proposal that you've made for us here? What do political parties mean to you when you're equating them with a group of citizens, you're completely equating? Why political parties collected signatures, registered if they cannot participate in political life. Because you now have a concern that all these political parties will participate in local elections, you know what some political parties do not have one or two municipal and city committees, not to raise one-third of the list. Therefore, you have demoted the political parties by the very fact that you treat them as groups of citizens. It's a fact and groups of citizens and political parties have the same right and the same thing they have to do to collect signatures. We know we had an obligation to collect signatures, but we know we passed the Law on political parties. Therefore, your statements should also be agreed when it was debated about the law, as well as that fact. It's an interesting finding in which we have a country at this point of the blanco resignation. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, in which country in the world do we have this electoral system that you're offering us? The combination of blank resignations, closed lists and order of what country in the world? I would ask you to give an answer here, an example that you have handled as a positive example, I hope it exists in the world and that Serbia needs to be seen. What kind of example is that? So, you're talking about the tops of political parties, you know what Mr. Minister, the tops of the political parties will at this point only play a role in selecting committees on the lists and sorting them out the way the political parties want them to. After that, political parties have no role in political life. Come on, please tell us in what way the political parties will influence the process in one such, local self-government when the committees in no way but moral integrity or political conviction want to belong to that political party. So, in another way, political parties have no insight. You mentioned here that Zemun has 20 MPs. Is it theoretically possible, based on your bill, that all the councilmen should be from Zemun? I'm speaking theoretically. To put all the political parties in the top of the list, only the Zemun candidates alone, not to say none of them from Batajnica. Is that theoretically possible by this law? It's possible, Mr. Minister, it's possible that we can get the entire assembly, let's say you cited an example of Zemun, that everyone from Zemun, from no other inhabited place on Zemun territory, and you know it very well, and now you here, we're telling a story here, and you know very well what I'm talking about right now. I'm talking about the sovereignty of the citizens. What sovereignty are you citizens talking about, Mr. Secretary? Whom will the citizen choose, what does he choose, which councilman he chooses? I've set an example for you, a committeeman who's second on the list can say, I'm going on vacation, I'm going on a trip, I'm busy, I don't have to show up and I don't have to show up for that committee. If the party passes the price, I'm a boardman 100%. We can now talk about whether it's moral, whether it's true, but it's the fact that he doesn't have to make any effort to become a councilman because the list was closed, because he had to go in order as planned here. What I've been saying for 60 days, I've been saying that you've called on the Constitution, that the Constitution defines that thing, but the Constitution doesn't define that thing, it talks about the election of MPs, and really if we're here today discussing the law on local elections as a law that prescribed the laws on MPs, then it's not good, it's two different types of choices, and maybe the elections for local self-government require more time, we have more candidates for committees than we have candidates for MPs. It's absolutely certain that maybe it's except for the fact that we're talking about some kind of election merger, it could be an argument that these elections last longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58456	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58457	I can't help it, I can see it will last. But when you speak to Zemun, I see a fellow man smiling, someone who is right for Zemun to be the most councilman, MP. I don't think you're right, I didn't understand you very well. What do we have now? Now we have to offer citizens a list of 250 names or 55 names in local self-government and place number one on our most respected members who don't come to mind, people will never be committee members. That's the way it's always been. We line up respectable people, and then when the election's over, then we put those at the bottom of the boards who glued the posters, isn't it true? Mr. Palalic, they made the result of the poster stickers but they didn't, the citizens didn't vote for them to be good poster stickers, they weren't poster stickers, they were elections to be represented in some local parliament. Then we'll put in the DS and then we'll put down a youth that's like you or any other party did. It's more fair to you now to the citizens than this. At least that's how a citizen knows, that's the list, and if he goes and resigns, at least he'll be embarrassed to resign. 'So I don't understand what's worse than what's been so far, this is just better. Is this the best? No, the best thing I could say for sure was what I suggested. Everyone's praises, and I think that was best, at least I didn't hear what was wrong, but this is still better than what we've had so far. So far we've had a complete, the citizen goes to the polls to put in the paper and says I'm for the XXY party and then that party has his vote whatever it wants for the next four years, he does what he wants. Today he's a representative of this, your MP isn't this one, he's the one. She could've done whatever she wanted, at least we changed that much. Therefore, if the reduced power of political parties by the logic of things has increased, the power of citizens has increased, it has increased in this regard. The power of political parties, political parties has been reduced, and don't let us regret our parties, it's good for them however. Now, you're asking me how I play the role of political parties and what are political parties for? So political parties, now you're going into the topic that you've read a lot about, and probably everyone here, the role of political parties, people of similar ideas, thinking together have a certain ideology, wants it to be conducted as a public policy, as a state policy, think that through it it will achieve some state or personal interests, and that's about in some broad definition, with this structure, with this legal subjectivity, it's a political party registered and competing in elections to gain citizens' trust. So it's a political party that forms a policy, and later when it comes to power, it's through the representatives that she suggested, that policy and implements, and that's my dear colleague, it's so everywhere, and so is ours. So, it's some kind of moderate and normal role of political parties, I don't know what it's supposed to be anymore. It is not normal for the political party to be the master of the mandate, it is not normal, because then the question is what is the MP, with whom the prefix of the people's right, is that private adjective of the people. Well, it's not a folk, then it's an MP for the political party. If the political party thinks for him, it has his voice on it, it has his position as MPs. I've now spread the subject but this is a conflicting question of yours, what in our current system has been the MP. All in all, I mean simply, this last time, the actual question of the resignations is, like, the most honest. It's really something that goes down in history, it talks about blank resignations, and now whether this is a system that has serious challenges for the political parties themselves. Yes, as far as people's motivation is concerned, a series of issues are being opened here for the political parties themselves, but let's just be honest, the political parties were not in a position to agree on a different electoral system, and this is the electoral system that we set up a number of years ago, which is now just a difference compared to all of which excludes two attributes, which makes me think he's also made, which is that the political party usurps the overall power. Practically now that content was the thinking of political parties when we made all together this electoral system, now it's just a shell. There was a mere depersonalized proportional system with what we wanted to achieve then, believing that we would achieve the stability of political life so that someone, as it happened in that mandate, would not. When we saw this happening, that these two main instruments were coming out, then by the logic of things had to sit down and see, okay, this shell doesn't have to go anymore, we have to change the electoral system ourselves, and we're going to meet these events. We weren't able to do that, and that's too bad. It is the responsibility of the ruling coalition, but again I say in part other parties. How to bring the electoral system yourself, you have to agree with someone that electoral system, because other parties are taking part in these same elections, and you need to accept it as something completely legitimate. No one here was ready. Nobody. It's like we still don't believe that blank resignations don't exist. It's like we still don't believe they exist. I heard a leader of a political party saying today that somehow it has to come back. That's amazing, I can't figure it out. It's just that it's the past. No more. We're done with that, and we're in the situation where we found ourselves. They asked me if it could be, so all the bad things that have been so far, in that sense, proportional distribution exists now. So it's possible that 20 MPs could be from Zemun. It was possible so far, it's possible in the future, and so far it's been possible, what's been some difference so far. How else is there 20 MPs from Zemun here, if it wasn't possible? One electoral system we had, which had these two major shortcomings from the point of view of the professional public, the sovereignty of citizens, international standards, etc., that electoral system is the past. There's been a change in these electoral systems. Now we're in one period. In this period, the political parties themselves are the most affected, but in some ways they will pay their unpreparedness to catch up with time and what to do, so we do. The citizens here won't suffer. Let's not talk about the citizens suffering. They won't tolerate citizens here, they'll basically suffer a little political party, but generally we'll get safer relations in politics, relations in executive power, etc., because you'll simply have to convince now and those who chose you to do something right. You won't be able to ignore them. So far, at least you could ignore them as you please, and now there is no more, but no matter what someone commands the municipal board and what the party top is there in some place, it will have to make sure that it deserves the support of those who chose it the first day he became president of the municipality. I think it's a very good thing, a very high quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58458	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to take this opportunity to, with the Honorable Minister, wrap up some of the thesis he's brought here. First of all, Mr. Minister, the Republic of Serbia will be a cornerstone in the world if these intensities are adopted, because we will be the only state, not only in Europe but in the world, where the Constitutional Court creates an electoral system. The current constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to elections, contains only two specifics, that the elections are free and that they are direct. From these two specifics that the elections are free and direct, the Constitutional Court has made an amazing conclusion that it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia only that we have a proportional electoral system with closed electoral lists. I'm sorry, that doesn't say in the RS Constitution. So, we now have an electoral system that will be created by the Constitutional Court decisions, not because it says so in the Constitution, because the Constitution only says that the elections are free and direct, not because it is written in the law, but because the Constitutional Court interpreted it as in ancient Greek times, that the prophetess in the Delphi, that it is the only thing constitutional, which is that we have a system of closed electoral lists, although it does not say it anywhere in the Constitution. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, I refer you to reading, as Mrs. Comic says, she likes to use that syntagma, to point to reading. Here I am now referring you to reading the eighth part of the RS Constitution, which defines the issue of constitutionality and legality, which are sources of rights in RS. The Constitution, approved international agreements, laws and sublaws of general law, decisions of the Constitutional Court, Mr Ministers are not a source of law and cannot commit to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the highest constitutional and legislative representative of the citizens of RS. The National Assembly is free to pass laws, where there is only one restriction, to comply with the RS Constitution. The decisions of the Constitutional Court shall have an individual character and produce legal fact only in the case for which they have been made and may not have legal fact outside the case. We are now in a position to pass laws because the government has assessed that the laws must be consistent not with the Constitution but with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. You say, Mr. Minister, blanco resignations should be abolished, that's bad, that's not a European principle, etc. In 2007, Mr. Minister, the Law on Local Elections was passed, you explained it in the National Assembly. In 2007, the blanco resignation institute, i.e. making the mandate available to the political party, was a legal category, no one invented the blank resignations. You now wanted to introduce the citizens as the head of political parties, so you agreed there were blank resignations, no, it was in the law. Now I ask you, at what time in 2008, 2009, 2010, or in 2011, did you realize that blanco resignation is not a European standard? In 2007, you said it was and you made it into the law, suddenly in 2011, it's not a European standard. Tell me, what year since the blank resignations in Serbia are not a European standard, and we have a deadline from 2007 to 2011. Tell me, what year is that in which definitely blank item is no longer a European standard? You say, in this system of closed ballots, it will be possible to respect the will of the citizens, because there are supposed to be no more blank resignations. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, how will I, as a citizen, be able to protect my sovereign political will from that councilman whom I have entrusted with in the local elections and who has promised to fight for one policy, for one ideology and a joint programme, and after I have given him my vote to sit in some local assembly, he changes his behavior and suddenly represents some other policy, some other ideology, some other political program. How am I going to protect myself from the councilors, from MPs, after all, who promised to fight for great Serbia, for the ideology of Serbian nationalism, for the unification of the Serb people in the single state, and after that, after I sent him to Parliament, you say that it is at all costs for the EU, that Ratko Mladic should be extradited and that he never spoke of a great Serbia, and as far as KIM is concerned, he is ready to accept the real situation on the ground, which is so-called. independence of the Republic of Kosovo. How am I, as a voter, to protect myself from such a man? Not at all. I'll just be fooled. Is there a legal mechanism to protect my sovereign political will, because I did not vote for an individual, but in the elections I voted for a political party that is in political bond with me, as with the voter, because it promised me that it would fight for one programme and one policy. Tomorrow, when the representatives of that political party enter parliament, whether it is a National Assembly or a local parliament, it suddenly leads another policy overnight. How am I going to protect my political will? Not at all. I'm gonna be insecure. What you're doing right now is enabling a system where voters will be framed. It doesn't matter that you voted for a political party, it matters that this individual, this person, has suddenly become free. When does he begin to consume his freedom, Mr. Minister? When I, as a voter, send him to Parliament. I'm sorry that he didn't start to consume his freedom during the election campaign, so let him, as a man of personal integrity, see, great professional, moral values, campaign himself, organise everything that is necessary and let him go to Parliament for his personal reputation, and not hide behind the political party's name, behind the political leader, then don't think about his freedom, then he's a obedient soldier of the party and then executes everything. When I, as a voter, send him to Parliament, he suddenly realizes that he is free and that he can no longer respect anyone, but that he can behave as he pleases him. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, political parties are part of an organized human society. In every organized human society, you have something called discipline. Why wouldn't these disciplines be in political parties? Which political parties must be some exclusive part of society, where there is no discipline, where anyone can behave as they please. What about the state, the military, the police, the health care, the schooling, if such absolute freedom were possible? It's just that institutions couldn't exist. You're telling us it's a European standard and we're on our way to the EU, so we're abolishing the blank resignation. A country that is the progeny of parliamentaryism, a state that, in a colloquial language, has invented both parliament and parliamentaryism, Great Britain, has one government, a very big, huge government that sits over 120 people, and the government is not the same as the cabinet. The members of the British government are four government whips, which are called whips, because they control the conduct of MPs in parliament. Now, all of a sudden in the UK it's democracy, it's parliamentaryism, and in Serbia the MP is free, the committee is free. So how come no one is referring from the Venice Commission to the UK's objection, so he says to her, "Wait a minute, people, how is it possible that there are some whips sitting in your government that control the conduct of MPs in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland's parliament?" It doesn't occur to anyone. Why? Because the UK is holding on to its integrity. What about us? We are an experimental station where all sorts of, called EU experts are experimenting on living people. In 1963, Mr. Minister, in the U.S. famous American political theorist Semior Lipser published a book called "Political Man". The man explicitly says – there is no democracy in which, according to market values then, there is no gross national income of at least $500 per capita. Where's that underneath? There's no democracy. So you're going completely the opposite direction. First, make a strong society in economic and social terms, so that people don't have to throw themselves out of the window, to get nails in their palms, so that who knows what they're doing, that some minister remembers their torments. Make sure people work, that they can live decently from their work, that they can buy an apartment, train their children, treat their parents, and then lift the blank resignations, then give freedom to the committees and MPs, and in one ruined state, where everything is for sale... Here, go, Mr. Minister, on the highway, did you see you talking about gender equality, hundreds of young girls selling their bodies because they have nowhere to work? In such a state, you end the blank resignations and talk about some kind of freedom. Freedom in the poor doesn't exist. There's no such thing as freedom in poverty. Freedom exists for rich nations, for developed nations, for nations that have a certain standard of life. You, instead of going in that direction, to strengthen the Serbian economy, to strengthen the social status of every citizen in the Republic of Serbia, you've made him sick, you've robbed him, you've let him go to the mercy and mercy of various tycoons, people like Bek, Miskovic, Karic, who knows who doesn't, and then in one such society, poor, poor, desperate, you've remembered freedom, freedom of mandate, etc. Imagine, now you're making fun of me, smiling, like you don't know what kind of councilmen, what kind of social status they're sitting in local parliaments. I don't think they're bad people, far from that, but I'm telling you that a man who doesn't work anywhere is easy to buy. Not for 2,000 euros, as you said, Mr. Minister, for 100, 200 euros today, 500 euros are being bought by committees to vote for certain proposals from the ruling party or coalition of ruling parties. There's no freedom here. This is about you allowing this law in a brutal way to abuse the fact that the vast majority of citizens in Serbia have difficulty living and that a man who has a difficult life, who has a 1001 unresolved economic and social problem, can objectively come into a situation to be blackmailed. That's what happens in Serbia. The fact that you don't want to admit it, that you're laughing at me now, that's something else entirely. I'm telling you, the real social situation in Serbia is that. You started building the house from the roof. Build it from the ground. The foundation of every well-organized state is a strong economy, citizens who have decent conditions for life and who can live a life of decent men. You didn't provide that. You made sure that citizens today in Serbia are equal with the citizens of Albania and Moldova. Today, both Montenegrins and Macedonians, even the few in BiH, have overtaken us. In such a society, you introduce a free councilman and freedom of MPs. There is no such thing as freedom. What you call freedom is the manipulation of citizens, the manipulation of individuals who today in Serbia are extremely difficult to live. It would be good, Mr. Minister, when you talk about these alleged European standards, about that so-called. to the professional public, I haven't heard a single name, you say -- many experts, to tell me one name. Here, I am, like you, from the world of legal science, telling me one name of this famous expert, who said that what you, besides yourself, are, of course, you are the most famous legal expert, but someone else who said that what you put on paper that this is the greatest achievement of law in the 21st century. I haven't heard any names. Secondly, when it comes to these famous European standards, don't inform yourself, Minister, from the newspapers, and don't inform yourself from television. Don't believe everything a foreign embassy secretary tells you there or Mr. Bensan Deger, who marched under the banner on gay parades last year - death to the state. Take some books, take some textbooks, have great books from constitutional law, from comparative political systems, and see what's really standard in those countries, and not -- you heard on TV that the European standard is that there are no blank resignations, and then you're parrotically repeating it for a year, and you won't tell the people that, let's say, in Great Britain, they're sitting whips. When that whip three times underlines the red pen that it must come to Parliament's session, let's see that mother's son in Great Britain, a parliamentarian, who won't attend the session of the British Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58460	Minister Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58461	Mr. Martinovic, you've said it all well and it may sound nice, but I think you're just seducing the public the way you speak and your eloquence. First, that there should be some discipline and some order, there should be. Whether someone is capable of organizing order in their ranks or not, that's the question of someone. He who is not capable, is torn apart by a party. It's just a thing, it's said. It fell because it was prone to fall. If it hadn't been for the fall, it wouldn't have fallen. That's the case with that discipline. You're talking about whips in the English Parliament, but you're not saying that no one in the English Parliament can take away the mandate, because this one has honored to have his own name, or that the MP has his own position. Who does it take away from anyone in any British parliament because the representative has his position? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Who has his own position?) Anyone can have their own attitude. I don't know the name and the last name, I guess, the MP there. So that's the first thing. Don't manipulate, there's no such thing as blank resignations. In other words, you tell me a country where there are blank resignations. Tell me one thing. I've never heard that there are blank resignations anywhere. It's just a replacement. Here's the thing, you're talking about -- don't change here, you're reforming the political system, there's misery here, there's poverty here, here it's like this, etc. Well, maybe it's because we're not reforming the political system. Maybe that's why. Politics is the creator of everything. The political system depends on which people will sit in which municipality, in which city, in which province or republic. It just depends on the political system. For twenty years, we have been fostering a political system, fostering a partocrat. We've had the results we've had for 20 years. Why would you want us to reform everything just so we don't reform the political parties and their power? Let's reform everything, but just by chance, don't dare touch the political parties. Why don't we go the other way? Why don't we say -- wait, the political parties are the bearers of political life, they're the creators of what we have, so let's see that they reform. Let's see if any competences apply to political parties. Is the system such that it forces political parties to be better and better or is the system such that political parties become more lazy, lazy, irresponsible, irresponsible and irresponsible? By introducing the blank resignations, we have introduced that the political party is completely irresponsible, it can throw whoever it wants into parliament, and it doesn't care, because it knows that if it's wrong, it'll replace someone else, so if that other party isn't right, it'll replace the other one with some third party. That's what you stand for. It's one complete irresponsibility of the political party. It's an entirely easy position of the political party, not to think about the quality of people, not to think about who's going to represent the citizens. That's the first thing I resent. So you've completely turned things around. The beginning of everything is political parties, such as the 90th debate whether we need political pluralism. Where now the political pluralism of the parties when they attack us, attack that and when Yugoslavia falls apart? It's this constant replacement thesis. Where exactly did you find to talk about when we had problems here or there? Therefore, it may well be a solution to having a better political life that will deliver a better result, because political life, the institutions of a system, are made up of people. People come here with procedures that come up with political life, which is designed by these laws. These laws depend on the extent to which quality will determine which people will fill that content of those institutions that decide on our lives. Maybe it's a good way to change election laws. Maybe it's quite a solution to make a different procedure that a selection system will do, not that the selection depends on my goodwill when I come to some municipal board and say, look, I like this one, he's a good boy, he applauded me four times when I spoke and he's going to decide the economy of this municipality now. I don't think that's the answer. So, just don't change the thesis – make a house out of roof. I don't think so. The foundation of everything is a political system. The sooner we reform it and make it more effective, the sooner the political system will deliver a better result in real life. That's my opinion on it. You say - the role of political parties. We all know that the ideal is direct democracy, so then, since there are six million of us in one country, in another 60, there are 200 million in one, then it is predicted that citizens have some of their own representatives in parliament. This is the principle of national sovereignty which, according to our Constitution, is achieved through the freely elected representatives rather than through political parties. It doesn't say there that we transfer our sovereignty to the DS, DSS, or the SRS. It says there that we exercise our sovereignty through our elected representatives. Who is my elected representative in the municipality of New Belgrade? Who? I don't know, Mr. Martinovic, I have no idea and I do politics. In the municipality of Novi Belgrade my party is in power and I don't know who my representative is. Because the electoral system is such that it makes it impossible for me to know who my representative is. That's the main problem. You advocate that we transfer our sovereignty to the parties, and then the parties close the doors in the dark, figuratively, without the eyes of the public, decide like this, like that, etc. Why 250 MPs here if you're right? It's enough for you to say, educated, to say what you have, Mr. Palalic is enough, Arsic is enough. But it also states in the Constitution that the people are sovereign and that they realize their sovereignty through their own elected representatives. What's the problem, then, if you're looking for the root of it in the Constitution? I invite you not to read as you say. Read. Unlike you, I don't read. You're the only ones who read. Your custom is to degrade others immediately. So, you're the only ones who read, the rest of us don't read anything, but some healthy logic, common sense tells me that it's still good that the parties don't ask themselves in Serbia as much as they ask themselves, but to ask themselves something, that there are some MPs, some councilmen who have a name and they can say something. It's a matter of common sense. I say again, don't deceive, there isn't even in Britain, there's no institute anywhere to take away a man who's been elected to office. It's standard. Does he have his faults? Everything has its faults. It's not a democracy system without fault. It's like when they say -- is democracy a system? No, but he's the best there is. No one's said there's a better system. Does any electoral system have a flaw? Yeah, but I'm telling you again, don't look at things like that. Now you say to me, "What date did it occur to us that we should have no better than to have a blank resignation?" Mr. Martinovic, in 2007, it was a political party agreement, and now it's a deal for the majority in parliament to be like this. It doesn't happen when it comes. Generally I think, and then I thought that this proportional, depersonalized system that we had with the blank resignations led to a drop in the quality of politics. That's my opinion. I don't know how long you've been involved in politics, but who's older than you can tell what it looked like in 1995, 1996 and 1997 by the municipal committees of all parties in Serbia. There, Mr. Martinovic, there were serious people, older people, educated, professors, doctors, etc., there were young people, there were people who deal with crafts. It was that time. It's funny to you, but that's what it looked like, and it's been doing some politics and these local committees. The local congregations looked different and there was a discussion. I was president of a community where the councils didn't have any blank resignations. No one has denied my trust. For four years, I've been president of the municipality without a single problem. I didn't need a blank resignation. To make things worse, it was a majority system and I didn't mind, but I convinced them of the correctness of what I was doing. You convince, convince, and you have no problem at all. Don't by definition say that bribery. I almost read it, one of our fellow MPs, a politician said there must be normal people in political parties. I liked that. I guess it was in some kind of effect. Mr. Martinovic, I guess there's a fair and normal world all over Serbia, so you don't have to worry. If you say – I, Aleksandar Martinovic, guarantee for a colleague that he will represent these and those interests, suggest it, why are you afraid of it? How is this religion punished in Western democracies? It's always being punished in the next election. They say that a man, specifically in Britain, who once made that turn, who once became religious, had ended a political career. Whether it'll be in Serbia, I don't know, but you can't do it one day like this, another day like that. The public there is sensitive to such things and punishes very strictly. I agree that in Serbia, it is not the case to punish different statements and attitudes, but perhaps it should not be in Serbia yet. Maybe it's a good thing we're still developing our parties and our thinking, maybe even changing through all this time, because the dramatic changes in the circumstances in which we live. Maybe that's why it's good for us to change, not to stay trapped in some past, in some of the attitudes we had maybe ten years ago. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, how do individual decisions of the Constitutional Court for an individual case? When the Constitutional Court decides by constitutional appeal, it is individual, but when it solves and puts out of force one general act or part of the general act, norm, it is a decision that affects everyone. If the Constitutional Court said what he said, which I deeply agree with, and you disagree deeply, you're telling me that if you were a minister, you'd be the same norm that the Constitutional Court put out of force in parliament again? Mr. Martinovic, it's a stake in the heart of the state. After that, we're not a state. I don't know what we'd look like. It's unpopular to mention a country. There's a demarcation going on right now. How can we even talk as politicians and as lawyers about whether, after the Constitutional Court's decision, which put one norm out of force, that same norm is reintroduced into this law? To return to the amendment of counterpart Nemanje Sarovic, who has noticed well. Don't introduce yourself, Mr. Martinovic, nothing new with this law. This law only follows the state that we have in the Constitutional Court's decision and we have to respect that. I can't understand at all, you as a school teacher to propagate the idea that the Constitutional Court one, and we as politicians, we are all powerful and we can do the other. We're not all-powerful, are we? There's something that limits us as politicians? I guess there's some rule of law, some law? Since I'm not reading anything, but somewhere in the paper I've read, there's this objective will of law that's beyond all our will, which we all have to do. Therefore, it is the rule of law. I invite you to throw yourself at reading this colorful press, and there to read something, maybe interpret cartoons and magazines. Thank you for your advice that I read something sometimes, but without it I believe what I said, it's absolutely right. Consider that a reform of the political system may be a condition for all other reforms. That's a good idea to think about. This is what we have as a decision of the Constitutional Court and the willingness of Parliament to build. Removing the blank resignation is a prerequisite and the most radical thing that could have been done in some kind of reform of the political system. That's what opens the door to political reform. I'm not saying that we're going to live better right away, but that's a prerequisite after that for the future president of the municipality, any in Serbia, to think carefully about what he's going to do, to think carefully about whether he can convince and hold the ruling majority's attention for four years for what he's doing. They'll have to, it's a responsibility and it's a chance for a better quality of politics. In the end, when we have a single-party system, the reform of this system has led to multi-partyism, and has led to a better result, therefore, the reform of the system is, in my deep confidence, the condition of all other reforms in one society. If it hadn't been for the reform of the 1990s and the change of the political system of Serbia, we probably wouldn't have a different system today, but we'd be sitting here choosing judges when anyone liked it, the municipalities would choose their judges and all that would be the case. So, the condition of each reform is the reform of the political system, the reform of consciousness, etc. I'm saying again, I don't understand one thing, because we, God forbid, are alive, we're healthy, we're all here relatively young people, we meet in the future, I can't understand that you can't understand that the blanco resignation of an institute that is so far past in a civilized world that it's completely irrelevant that we've been here for two hours, defending or attacking blank resignations. It's completely declassified to talk about the blank resignations, and why should a man be free to think as a representative of the citizens without being tied up by that blank resignation?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58462	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On many occasions, you have explained to us the tendency of change and supplementation beyond that. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think that after we reached that gentlemen's agreement to create a committee of lawyers to resolve that proud knot in the municipality of Golubac, I thought we were done with that story. I don't want to go into court anymore. It's the court that judges, whether by law or by some of its own interests, I'd like it to be based on the law, but judging. According to the Ministry's law, it is very strange that the Assembly determines the termination of the term of office when the committee resigns at the assembly session and decides on the termination of the term of office, as stated in the Law, Article 46, and decides if it resigns between the two sessions of the Assembly. If the term of office ceases, paragraphs 2 to 8. The Assembly again determines – it does not decide. Now we're caught up in terms of a vacuum, etc. If that were the same, it would also say, because as far as I know, I may be wrong, I was never a minister, I don't have that ambition, but it doesn't work as a law minister, some working groups, which may be under the supervision of the minister, according to instructions, etc., which are from the Ministry and experts from certain areas, etc., and it wasn't written by chance. Now it's a different story why it's being interpreted, but it doesn't matter either. This is about the following – so the committee has suspended the mandate by the decision of the local self-government unit assembly. After that, an appeal shall be lodged and shall be held prior to the decision of the Administrative Court of the Assembly meeting, which shall be held by the committee that has already appointed the termination of the term of office. That assembly, your Ministry of Acceptance, was held prior to the ruling of the Administrative Court, which was annulled by the Administrative Court of Justice on the end of the term of office. We can get into some controversy, is it like this, he had that right, illegally taken, etc., etc. But to come from the next assumption, that the Ministry is a state body, that according to the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act, the Constitutional Court's decision, general, final and binding, is that all state and other bodies, social organisations, religious communities, political parties, entrusted with public authority, are obliged to respect and enforce decisions of the Constitutional Court. I would like to ask my party colleague, Dr Branislav Blazic, to take with the committees who have suspended the term of office of Article 47. The Law on Local Elections, in Kickinda, holds a session of the Assembly in some hotel, because they have unlawfully agreed to be committees, although neither the Administrative Court of the Assembly has returned those mandates to them, to hold a session of the assembly, to deliver the minutes from that session of the assembly, then to the president of the municipality and the president of the Kikinda Assembly, to place stamps out of force and to introduce Dr Blazic with his majority in the Assembly. Then I accept. If you do that, I think it's an identical case, if you do, you have my resignation as MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58464	The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58465	You can't do that. You mix up different situations. As promised, I brought everything. He was a subject a year and more, I told you that no matter what I don't remember, I guarantee and offered public resignation if ever, anything the Ministry did wrong. Now I've brought the subject and here's the thing. First of all, we have two judgments by the High Court in Pogorevec, both of which are identical and cancelling the SO decisions on the termination of the mandate of a certain lady board and so on, because those decisions have been taken illegally. Of course, they were illegal because it took 16 to make such a decision, and the congregation was 15, but it was using the 16th candidate for a councilman who was supposed to be a councilman in the position of that woman. But instead of insisting that after the Assembly's failure to confirm the termination of the term of office of the lady, if she considers that the conditions are met and that immediately thereafter she asks the court to determine the end of the term of office, then the President of the Assembly, who has already decided there, is mistaken and despite the decisions of the High Court, is again taking the term of office of the lady again. After these two decisions, there are two decisions of the Administrative Court to repeal SO Golubac's decisions on the removal of the term of office and to confirm the term of office of Mr. Zivorad Denic from the list, and the Administrative Court also says what he says. On the basis of this, the Ministry is conducting the simplest mathematical operation, very simply, says – the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, etc., on the basis of the documentation etc., it finds that a session for 1 July 2010 was convened at the request of a certain number of committees, that the session was attended by 31 committee members of 31 committees, as many as there are according to the statutes of the municipality, that the board of directors of Zivorad Denić, whose term of office has been challenged, and that the committee of Ana Radimirović, whose term of office belongs to, and then we state the verdicts of all these courts who have determined that she is a committee and that she can't go to declare some Denić as a committee, however much as the assembly liked. On this basis, we had nothing more to do than figure out when the division occurred, and when these 16 went to one side, or 15 plus this lady, and you'd be left with this Mr. Denić, it's a simple mathematical operation that these have more than 50%, to make up 16 and that the assembly and decisions she makes are all about. It has nothing to do with your client or mine or anyone else. It's a simple mathematical operation based on which we decided. We have decided that our opinion, that our position is very clear, is that most of it is based on the court's decisions, not on my thinking and the desire to introduce or not introduce someone. That's why they came to us, because this other side then took the seal, they don't stamp, you know what it looks like to us. Then the ones who are legal, according to the decisions of the courts, and not by my will, turned to get the seal. They got the seal, and that ended a year ago. As far as I know, no one had any objections. As far as I know, even on your legal team, it wasn't further, although there are people who know the law as well as we do at the Ministry. The problem of Golupca, I would say, is not even a problem, relatively simple thing, legally speaking for the Ministry relatively easy, because we have four decisions of the court that say one thing – Denić is not a committeeman. As much as we'd like to make Denić a councilman, he's not a committeeman, and this lady is a committeeman. Who's to blame? It is the president of the assembly who tried to counter the court, the court one, and the other, it is local politics in Serbia. Nobody cares what the court says. As for Kickinda, what you have now told me, it is obvious that it is about people who have been taken away from office under a provision declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional, under the Constitutional Court Act, they should address the authority that took away their mandate. If it is a congregation, it should be returned to them. If he doesn't return, they'll address the judge. The administrative judge is in charge and there is no dilemma here to give them all their mandate back. It's a very clear unequivocal thing. At the very least, after this amendment in 30 days, we'll see if the administrative court can do such a thing within 30 days. Don't mix those two things, they have nothing to do with each other. This is the removal of the mandate based on the blank resignation, this is the withdrawal of the mandate because they believe the residence has been changed, and the conditions have been met by law. But people have been working illegally and it's entirely their fault. Everything you have as a party needs to be solved with them. It's simple, because they did the wrong thing. The courts ruled, we made a decision as Ministry etc. I don't expect you to resign, but here's the thing, and it can't be interpreted any different. There's no minister, even if he's SNS, who would have done different than I did. No minister, and if you see one day, you will not ruin your position or your reputation for falsifying something somewhere. Papers remain, the minister is replaced in the extreme case, papers are available, anyone can seek them under the Law on the availability of information of public importance. Anyway, since everyone's already warning me that we've been using a lot of time in these discussions, I'm in the mood to open this up on the board, but provided that you and I both invest in something, so whoever's wrong, just let them take the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58466	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58467	Mr. Minister, with this reminder of your 1990s, you remind me of a minister in the Government of Milan Stojadinovic. At the time, it was a practice for every new government and every member of the government to write a short biography. Since his résumé was very thin, he wrote in his official biography that he had been dealing with political and economic issues since his earliest childhood. You're pretty much the same. It's a little older than me, but just to teach me how it was in 1990, where you were allegedly directly protagonists of political events, I can't believe that much harder. What the SRS is and what I want to tell you now is that all you just said, apropo economic stability and the political system to deny you political practice, give me a country in a world that is economically poor, which is socially ruined, which has a stable political system. Such a state, Mr. Minister, does not exist. Great Britain has become a strong and successful nation not because it first created the political system it has, but because it has become economically extremely powerful, thanks to its navy, thanks to its colonies, thanks to its large land holdings, thanks to its geographical position because it is simply isolated from the European mainland and has been protected from many foreign invasions, foreign troops incurring, destroying its territory, etc. And such a rich country has been building a political system for centuries as it now has. No country in the world, no matter how hard it has tried, Mr. Minister, there is a great book by Sidney Loa, where the preface was written by Slobodan Jovanovic in 1929, "English Parliamentism", has failed to fully imitate the system that existed and still exists in the UK. It didn't work out for anyone in the world. Why? Because the British did not build their political system in cabinets and not build it by court decisions, but by building it for centuries of political practice. So what you're saying is simply not true. What does the SRS want to tell you? Prevent all those ugly phenomena that occur in Serbia's economic and social life. Let people work. Make it possible for people to live from their work, that they can buy an apartment without incurring themselves under green conditions with foreign banks. Make it possible for every man in Serbia who lives honestly and works at least to buy a new car for several thousand euros so that he does not have to be in debt under green conditions at, above all, foreign banks. Make it possible for both your children and my children, if they are talented, to be able to school without having to be a rich man to educate them. When you have this, then you will have a good political system, then you will have high-quality MPs and high-quality committee members. In conditions where you don't have all this, there's no freedom. Montescaje once said well - democracy is a system of full-aged peoples, not peoples that are squirming about such problems as we have, not people who don't know where its borders are, not peoples where his government negotiates with a part of the territory as with a neighbouring country, not peoples where members of that people have to jump from multi-storys, nail themselves nails, lie on the tracks of trams and trains. There's a whole other situation. That's what the SRS is trying to tell you. What you call freedom is what we call buying a mandate at a local level. You tried to convince both MPs and citizens that so far fewer political parties, maltenes, have been pulling out of the drawers of some blank resignations, changing MPs, councilors, etc. You know it's a practice to deny you. When did a political party happen to activate the blank resignation? Well, not because some SRS councilman looked over at me or didn't tell me good day, so now my vanity is hurt, so I told him – and now you won't be a councilman. No, in cases of particularly serious violations of party discipline, and that's something that's perfectly normal. Mrs Nada Kolundji, let's say, when we talked about amendments to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, she said – the blank resignations were activated to pressure MPs to vote in a certain way. Excuse me, when did this happen? It never happened. As a serious adult, I don't have to be forced to vote in a certain way. Well, we all vote in a certain way because we belong to certain political parties, we vote in accordance with our beliefs, in line with our political agenda. No one has to make me not vote for, say, this law of yours. The blank resignation was never tolerated because someone wanted to or voted in one way or another, but in a case like we wanted to do, when Tomislav Nikolic claimed from 1990 to 2008, that it was for big Serbia, that we would never enter the EU if they took away Kosovo and Metohija and suddenly said that I support the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU several months after three-quarters of EU members recognised Kosovo's independence and Metohija. What could we have done? Well, to protect the SRS program and policy. You didn't let that happen. You've legalized the theft of a mandate. The Serbian Parliament is the only parliament in Europe where a political party does not participate in the elections. Excuse me, what kind of European standard is that? It's not a standard, it's a brutal trade in terms of mandates, it's a treading and it's the most unsuspecting of the election will of citizens. That's what we're trying to stop. Is blanco resignation the happiest solution? It's not. Would we all like citizens to be completely safe, moral, responsible, so those citizens sitting as representatives of the Serbian Assembly or local communities? We'd love to. Are there any deviations from that? Well, there are. You are now saying – now let Aleksandar Martinovic vouch for this or that MP or councilman that he will always be faithful to the SRS. Well, in the conditions in which citizens in Serbia live today, who can give you such a guarantee? Here, the other day it happened in Surdulica that one councilman for not knowing how many hundreds of euros he went to the ruling coalition with an explanation – I love my party and I believe in its policy, but I don't have a beaten dinar in my pocket, I had to do it because tomorrow I don't have to buy my children bread. In such conditions, you are allegedly reforming the political system without previously providing Serbian citizens with basic conditions for a normal life. Do you think Serbia's citizens are now in charge of whether the electoral list is closed or opened, whether or not there is a blank resignation? No, that's what you're trying to create the illusion that it's the only obsession and preoccupation of Serbian citizens. They are 90% of Serbian citizens watching as they will pay their electricity bill, whether they will be paid tomorrow, whether they will be able to pay, here comes a new deadline for enrolment, children's tuition in colleges, etc. That's what people think. Did you solve those problems? You're not. What do you offer as a solution to their problems? Here, we'll cancel the blank resignation. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, now that you've abolished the blanco resignations, will your presidents of the municipality where they own DS, G17 plus, or who knows how many of you there are going to stop setting up tenders, will you no longer steal, will you issue municipal bars at a market price rather than at a price that is three times lower, will abolishing the blank resignations finally make you more moral people than you are now? No, that's what we ordered from the rally to support Ratko Mladic. Now, Boris Tadic, when you arrested Ratko Mladic, delivered him to The Hague tribunal, will your ministers no longer steal, will you no longer set up public procurement procedures, will you no longer hire your party members? Now a great burden has fallen from your back. There are no obstacles on the road to the EU now. That's what we're asking you now, Mr. Minister, will the president of the ruling coalition finally begin to respect the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia? Is it possible that in one municipality one of your coalition partners is both the president of the municipality and the owner of the construction company? Who do you think gets all the jobs? Well, he, that's his firm. What is the European standard? In such a country, where corruption is legalized, where corruption is encouraged, you citizens offer closed electoral list and blank resignation as a solution to all their problems. That's funny, Mr. Minister. It's clear to you, too. But for some reason, you want to create an illusion that Serbia's greatest enemies are the Serbian citizens' political parties. We fought in the 1990s to introduce a multiparty political system, because it's better than one-party. Now you want to take back the wheel of history. You say – yes, here are the political parties good to run, the political parties are good to participate in the elections, the political parties are good to collect signatures, because these signatures will not be collected by individuals but by political parties, but the political party is not good when the mandate is won. Then the councilman is free. Then the MP is free. Then there's no political party to wonder how I'm going to behave. Excuse me, in which cell of human society is such a thing possible? Imagine if a deputy in the army told the Major – what do I care if you're the major, I'll do what I want. What army in the world would win a war under such rules? None. How do you plan to put in place a stable political system, now that you've abolished these famous and unfortunate blanco resignations? I wish we'd never had to introduce them, but it was a mechanism of protection, such an election will for the citizens. Now the mechanism is gone. Now you're turning local congregations into flea market. It will now be possible for local parliaments to have representatives of political states or groups of citizens who have not participated in the elections at all. That's what's real danger. The MPs of the DS and the SPS and the G17 plus are aware of that, but because of this party discipline, they will vote for this law. How come none of them show their freedom? Is it possible that all MPs of the ruling coalition believe this is good? I speak with them, and when we drink coffee and eat, etc., trees and stones are laid down on this law and on the Law on the Selection of Members of the People. Why don't one of them show their freedom? He can't, because of party discipline. Secondly, I didn't understand those observations of yours at all -- I now have, as Minister, the blank resignations of the MPs. Since when do ministers have blank resignations in their pocket? You've tried to banalize the whole story of blank resignations, to make it funny to justify the abolition of this one single mechanism of protection of the electoral will of the citizens. Now that you've abolished it, what's that regular man at the club who voted? He'll give his vote to close the election list and who's going to ask you after how that councilman is going to behave and if he's going to listen to me, who sent him to parliament, because he promised me one policy, and suddenly, overnight and for money, he's going to start running another policy. Where's the protection mechanism? He's gone. You say the political parties have been easy so far. They had blank resignations, they could change committees, MPs any way they wanted. First of all, it didn't happen. So, the frequency of applying blanco resignation was very low. Secondly, if the political parties had used the blank resignations just as easily, they would have been punished in the elections. Who would tolerate every day changing MPs and councilmen? No serious political party has ever done that. She didn't do that, after all, or the SRS. But we worked in those exceptional cases, when it was no longer possible to get out of a situation where the MP and the committeeman simply acted contrary to the political party's programme. We thus protected the election will of the citizens. Is there any better mechanism for protecting the electoral will of citizens? It doesn't exist. When we make it up, I'll stand up for that better system. But until we come up with a better system of protection for the electoral will of citizens, so-called. Blanco resignations should exist. This way, you and this one such mechanism of protection are abolishing, and from local congregations, instead of being institutions where the interests of citizens in local communities will be authentically represented, you of these congregations simply turn them into flea markets, where everything will be for sale, because most of the councilors are people who are extremely hard to live today, who are by force of economic and social opportunities very often in a situation where they sell their mandate for money.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58468	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58469	We obviously have such a different understanding of all this, that further controversy is quite unnecessary and simply... (Alexander Martinovic from the scene: How long are we working today? )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58470	Vice President Comic told me we'd be working till 20.00 hours. If we're close to the end, I think it's okay to finish today. We'll make a deal. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58471	So there's no need for me to obviously open up this topic too much. You think the mechanism of blanco resignation is necessary. I have a different view of things and it's obvious. I believe that the blanco mechanism is one brake of any reform and greater quality of policy. It's someone I've seen, and you've got a whole different one. So that we don't go further, because obviously we've gone quite broadly, to the issue of other countries and their development, etc. It's just that we have different attitudes. It's not a dispute. Let's move on to the amendments, if we can keep going and not move on then spread this story.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58472	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58473	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm one of the few MPs, if I'm not the only one who doesn't feel sorry for me when you're not in the O.R. when I speak. Maybe it's good for you not to be in the O.R., too. You're good as a lawyer, but obviously in your desire, in the need to defend the minimum consensus you've achieved in the ruling coalition, you're talking about things that don't belong to you either. I'll remind you. You say the signatures have been collected so far. So far, there have been blank resignations, in order to protect the electoral will of the voters, so let them remain in the future. You said you didn't feel sorry for harassing parties, but you're sorry for harassing citizens. National MP Mr Aleksandar Martinovic told you what should be the government's obligation – to create preconditions for employees, for schooling, for treatment, after all, not to buy a new apartment, but to keep people from selling those apartments, or not to sell them to those who have claims on behalf of utility services. You do that, and then you can talk about a more serious reform of the political system and the electoral system. A good platform for a better political system related to the Law on Local Elections is amendments submitted by SRS MPs and what Mr Aleksandar Martinovic said on several occasions. Based on this, we should move and then we can certainly correct the provisions of this law that you have proposed. My amendment refers to Article 6. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which concerns Article 43, where it is said - the election commission of local self-government units will no later than 10 days from the day of publication of the total election results, all the mandates received from the electoral list will be assigned to candidates in order on the election list, starting from the first candidate on the list. So, the board of directors has played a technical role so far. Now it has one essential role, that it instead of the voters' lists, not candidates, but to determine who will be the committees. Article 34(2) The law on local elections says -- the voter can only vote for one of the ballots on the ballot. The election list is due to the political party or group of citizens' activities, and has not come in itself. If a political party or a group of citizens formed a certain electoral list and made as a starting basis who would be candidates for the council, there is no more way to motivate citizens, when they go to the elections, for whom to vote. You keep talking – define for those who will be the best. Here, your political party will be in a position for a good candidate, who may be 10 on the list, not voting for him at all because they know there's no way in the local unit to win 10 parliamentary terms. It is certain that according to this bill, in the next local elections in municipal parliaments, there will be more unquality committees than before. Of course, something will probably improve in quality, but because of this way of choice, because it is the committee responsible will have the task to determine, depending on the number of parliamentary mandates won, which the candidates will become committees. It is further said that one reason for amending and supplementing this law is in the local elections and the constitution. How can it be the Constitution? The constitution was declared by Decision of this Parliament on 8 October 2006, and the Law on Local Elections was passed in 2007. So that's just not true. Then you refer to some provisions of the Constitution that are absolutely not about the choice of committees, but about the choice of MPs. Then, judicial protection is needed in the electoral system, but the question is, will the Administrative Court be able to reach at the time of the election and make all those decisions concerning complaints, or complaints filed by persons whose rights have been violated? Here, the SRS appealed to the Constitutional Court on 16 March 2011, where the mandate of the SRS committee was misrepresented and assigned to another member. The administrative court did not make a decision after five months, and now at a time when elections are not held, at a time when the need to address the Administrative Court may be an individual case, what will happen at the time the elections are held. Then especially the Administrative Court won't be able to respond to these demands. Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, still in force, attitude 2 says there are blank resignations, a law under which it is possible to trust the right to have a mandate granted by the political party. But from the already applicable provisions of the law on local elections that do not change, the wrong assumption is that such a law can now be passed. I think it would be good for Mr Markovic to only propose one law, which is to abolish the election and abolish political parties, because it is also a thought-out for elections and amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections in this way when there is no opportunity to protect the active voting rights of citizens. That was more detailed for you by Aleksandar Martinovic, so there is no need now to repeat how and how to protect the active voting right of a citizen who, because of some candidate who promises during the election campaign, will represent a particular policy, and after the election and after the parliamentary mandate has been granted, changes politics by the competent electoral commission. It seems to him that what Boris Tadic prefers is quite right and good, rather than doing something a little slower, and this one could speed it up and do it faster. How and how to protect citizens after these elections? No way. So the minister could accept this proposal. Another law to propose, the congregation majority would probably vote for it. What it would do and what it would lead to, you'll see for yourself. To end the elections, the Venice Commission or the EU may, against which the SRS is certainly against, for a reason. Let those now in power say, or some other system should choose and make those decisions appropriate, but only for that political elite that you like to say, which is certainly neither good nor Serbia's citizens support such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58474	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58475	Are you just gonna tell me how much time there is for a parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58476	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58477	An amendment that I have submitted to Article 8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections applies, in fact, to Article 48 of the basic law. In Article 8, you propose that if the committee has suspended the term of office before the time to which it has been elected, it shall be assigned to the first next candidate on the same parliamentary list to whom the term of office has not been assigned. Furthermore, in this Article 8, you provide that for committees on the coalition list, so that the term of office is given to the political party and you ultimately propose to this member and the return of the term of office to the presidents of municipalities, i.e. the mayors, i.e. the deputy president of the municipality, or the deputy mayor under certain conditions. With my amendment, I asked to delete the entire article 8. A bill of this law. So I believe that you are, in fact, establishing this member, not only are you establishing so-called. The closed committee list, you're already going to do huge damage to the entire election process. A moment ago, the minister said, a comment on the Constitutional Court's decision, as if it were forbidden to comment on the Constitutional Court's decision. We respect all decisions, normally, and the Constitutional Court, but we here are actually criticizing your entire concept of this electoral legislation. Normally, by criticising the concept of your electoral legislation, we must also refer to that decision of the Constitutional Court. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, this isn't 1948. I read some of the judgments of the courts at the time made to God on behalf of the people, who condemned these martyrs for commenting on the decisions of those national courts. Now you're going to introduce it, so we can't comment on any decision. However, I argue, it will endure this people and under your government, as this people did in 1948, after a verdict brought by that people's court, a tortured Serbian peasant, where he was sentenced to 20 years in prison for being on the opposite side, because he was not on the side of the winners of the then. This closing statement says, well, the judge you condemned me, I was on the opposite side, I wasn't on your side of the winner, but I have only one remark, you've condemned me a lot, I can't stand it, I'm an old man. The judge tells him, keep your uncle as long as you can. By contrast, we will hold out until the end of your term, and after that you will see what happens. This principle of closed term, you justify European values. You also justify trying to bring the legal and political system into line with some European principles and some European standards. However, this is quite the opposite. One fundamental and fundamental question arises, is this change appropriate to the political, economic, social and any other moment in which this country is located. It is said somewhere that Denmark was changing its electoral legislation whenever it needed it. Right, gentlemen, from the ruling majority, but remember whenever she needed it and when it was in the interest of her citizens and her country. So, smart people, not always and at all costs, especially not because someone dictates it to you but only when there's a moment right because and when it's in the interest of their country and their people. To whom in Serbia is such electoral legislation and such electoral rules at this time? Who does this closed list match? However, you are trying to convince us that it suits the citizens of Serbia, but it is absolutely not true. Even, it can be counterproductive and very harmful to the citizens of Serbia because it is absolutely unacceptable given the level of political, social, moral and any other awareness and opportunity in which Serbian citizens live. I'm not saying that Serbian citizens are bad. The minister wanted to turn the thesis a little while ago and say that why are you afraid that Serbian citizens are corrupt? No! No! But you heard a little before Mr. Martinovic's exposure, so you're actually playing on the edge, you're playing on this people's weightlessness and misery, that's the point. You allow these rules that you establish in this law of local elections, that some local powermaker can actually buy and achieve most of the local parliament before the election. You know, when these committee lists are set up and published, he can start buying his mandate at the time. And all of what you do, ladies and gentlemen, with this electoral legislation, all of what you do with the change of electoral rules learns the most about choosing those freshly painted eggs but which, unfortunately, are stammering. You know, painted nice and pretty, when you break them down, they're so cute. It happens with this change in electoral legislation, with this change in election rules, how you do them here. Why is that? This closed electoral list fully depersonalises the function of the committee, fully. They are simply not representatives of the people. Councillors on this, as you suggest, are not what the Constitution says. Citizens vote for one closed committee list without being able to get more votes than the first, second, third, fifth list, simply because of this closed list and because of this way you suggest it. Furthermore, the particular question is the interest in the closed election list, what's going on here? In the local parliament, therefore, which has, for example, 75 council members, such as the local parliament in Cačka, from which I come, the one who is the 40th, 50th, 65th, 75th on the list, can theoretically become a committeeman in one case only, that his committee list only crosses the censorship. Right? So, just in that case, the 60s, the 70s and the 75s, can be a councilman, and you'll admit it's in the domain of theory, it doesn't have a theoretical chance in any local parliament. So what's the interest in local elections? So what's the interest of those people who have been positioned in some places on that election list since the 30th, 40th, 50th? Not at all. Whether you wanted to do this on purpose or not, I don't know. Furthermore, speaking in principle, I said this law is bad. That's what I'm saying right now. I believe that this law, as well as the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, has made something of something that was relatively good, something that is absolutely bad. So, from something that, let me say, was white, made black. Then I told the Minister that the best and the fastest, so to make it white black, lawyers and painters can do it. You know, the painters move the brush of a white device black immediately, and the lawyers know how? Now, since Mr. Minister, I've learned a kind of lawyer, then I'm increasingly convinced that in fact this law and this bill really made something very black out of something white. There's something else I'd like to say. The allocation of mandates under the closed list system, therefore to the next candidate on the list he has not received, will empower the electoral commission to do so by a single automation. I cannot admit that this will in some way eliminate one of your democratic fluids, or rather say two liquids, that the parliamentary mandates are assigned by an unauthorized person and that election commissions themselves assign mandates to those who will, but that will simply be done by one automation, at the end of the application and all the negative things that we of the SRS have talked about, according to this bill, will only be seen when the next elections come, and it will probably come back to you as a boomerang tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58478	Gentlemen, the MPs with Vice-President Comic agreed that you would be working around 15 to 8, but if everyone were to take advantage of the time and if we were to work until the end, it would be another half hour. Do you agree that we should finish tonight? We can. I thank you. MP Veroljub Arsic. You've got 17 minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, your session protocol differs slightly from the opinion of the Government on which we rely on the order of the amendment, so I would like to talk about my amendment to article 8 from the time of the parliamentary group, I don't need two minutes, as an applicant. So, Article 8 is regulated, as is given the mandate of the board, if one committee ceases the term of office before he is elected and one newspaper is introduced, not only on closed lists, but also on certain persons to whom (President: Mr Arsic, excuse me, but simply for the sake of the public, and for the sake of truth, you were not at the time when I read your amendment. So you can talk. No, no, you weren't in the O.R. You can, of course, speak on Mr. Munjic's amendment. That's on Article 8. So we're still on that amendment, but your amendment when I read it, you weren't there. Here you go. Go on. There's no problem comparing your protocol with the government's opinion. It differs a little bit (President: Please, page 9 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia and this was the first amendment to Article 8 I have read. In the opinion of Government 3 and 4, I was a little surprised. Nothing more. It doesn't matter. Therefore, Article 8 shall be governed by the way in which the term of office of the committee is re-assigned, and on the basis of the termination of the term of office of the committee to which the term of office has been suspended before the appointment and, other than that of the closed list, that is to say, one newspaper shall be introduced in the proposal of the law of a given category, namely the President of the municipality and their deputies may be re-elected to committees in the units of local self-government, provided that any other committee from their list ceases the term of office and provided that they submit the request to the municipal electoral commission. However, now we have and there is little difference between the republican government and the local government, and there is much difference between large communities and large cities, to those municipalities that are in the majority and which are less and are often poorly developed and have no economy, so they have a terrible outflow of personnel towards larger centres to maybe achieve some improvement there. All political parties, without exception, see their best and most capable people running in the election. However, if you think that there are parties within Serbia that can make an executive authority and a quality list of candidates for the council, that they are not the same people, you are wrong. That's almost impossible. You have a municipality where there's only one lawyer who wants to be the mayor of the municipal administration, whatever authority she chooses. He often does the work of the secretary of the congregation because they have no one else to set up. It's a similar situation with both public companies and not to mention, etc. The objective of this amendment was that when a political group makes a certain majority, it is of course that people who are then on board, one part of them will go to the executive power of decisions of that same unit of local self-government. The purpose of the mandate was not only that the mandate could again be assigned to the mayor, i.e. the president of the municipality and their deputies, but all persons whose mandate had ceased to take office which was incompatible with the position of the committee in the local self-government unit, and based on the decision of the unit of local self-government to place it on the post. You know, when power changes, unfortunately, we have one practice, that all directors are replaced, all deputies are replaced. It sets up each party most often places its staff in public enterprises and institutions. We now have one situation that is why the new opposition already has a weaker quality for its political struggle within the local parliament because the best and most capable have taken over some other functions and cannot return to being a committee. I feel personally, and so do we from the SNS, that no government can be good unless it has a quality opposition. That's when the government gets a little smudged and convinces itself that it's the best, convinces itself that no one can beat it and that the local self-government unit's comfortable assembly, where decisions are made without some serious one, not without some serious debate and often unserious decisions are proposed without fear that there will be any political consequences, because there is no one to oppose. We are also witnessing here in the National Assembly that a certain number of MPs have suspended the mandate of the MP without being ministers in the government and that they were again assigned to one of the next sessions of the same term. If we are already in agreement with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, we are setting deadlines and adapting to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, why not, at least in one limited part, accept that the committee member who has suspended his term of office is incompatible with the duties of the committee, when that duty ceases, that the term of office be returned to him, not only to the mayors, the presidents of the municipalities and their deputies? I think not accepting this amendment will cause the greatest damage to the development of multi-party and quality in the work of units of local self-government when these changes of government occur, because, as I said, those in smaller municipalities have already been in executive power, they cannot go back and remain committees who may not be able to oppose the new coalition majority in another political option.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58480	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58481	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the SNS wanted to finally set deadlines for the Administrative Court to follow. You've all witnessed a controversy between me and the minister, if these deadlines had been set, maybe this situation in certain municipalities wouldn't have developed. The fact is, and many of you know that the Administrative Court often retains the case for several months and does not decide whether or not a committee member has suspended his mandate, so it is settled only when a new majority manages to draw on two or three other committee members and thus does not matter to them anymore. By accepting those deadlines, or by setting deadlines by law, I thought we from the SNS could do something about it. However, when I look through some of our practices, I see that it is extremely difficult in such a political environment and such a political system. It is likely that the court council will make a decision within 30 days to return or withdraw the term of office, but how long will this solution stand in the office of the Administrative Court? How long will it take him to pass various commissions and say – well, that's what we should have written, that's how it should be, and you can freely put into legal traffic. And this Constitutional Court that needs to carry out its decision, because we've come to the point that no other state body will execute, and the Constitutional Court sabotages the execution of its decision. So, just like we said. Slowly, this country is becoming a senseless and lawless system, because Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, he is free of boasting that the Constitutional Court is effective, how it works, how it has increased the number of decisions it makes, how fast it solves by general acts, by individual acts, etc., when we have a situation that for every decision taken by the Constitutional Court we have to wait three, four, five or six months to determine the editorial commission. And what is it other than sabotaging the decisions of an authority that makes its own decisions? It cannot be understood to me that the rapporteurs, judges of the Constitutional Court, their expert associates who have to denigrate themselves into the essence of the problem, determine how much some act is in accordance with the law, with comparable law, with comparative law from countries in the environment with which we have signed various international agreements, that it takes them less time than some expert associate who needs to write where the score will stand and where a point in the solution and explanation of some decision taken by the Constitutional Court. Then we can set deadlines here in the Assembly, but until we execute one fundamental, fully reformed system, from the Constitutional Court to the lowest courts of general jurisdiction, I think we can only try one pale and unsuccessful way to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58482	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58483	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted this amendment to Article 10, by proposing that instead of saying "municipal commission" in law be designated as a unit of local self-government. Why is that? Because the municipality is not the only one in Serbia, because you also have a city hall, not just a municipal one. Therefore, it is necessary for this law to be applicable both to urban municipalities and to urban municipalities that form a municipality such as Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, etc., I think it was more effective to accept this amendment. What I wanted to add is that frequent changes and additions don't lead to anything. It doesn't have much value. The numerous laws this parliament adopts and this coalition have little value. All this is calculated to retain power at all costs, and to invent new European values and to bring our legislation into line with European values. Interestingly, the legislator did not call in which EU countries have such comparable systems as are proposed in Serbia. You never have a chance, because you can't do that. If you of the 25 EU countries now compare individual legislation relating to local elections and local self-government, you would see that you are really just talking about the EU, and there is no talking about it, that European values can be applied in Serbia. This is Serbia, a country that has its own history, a country that has its own mentality, a country that has its own customs, a country that has since modern Serbia, since Karadjordje for 200 years harmonised its legislation on European legislation. These European values that you present and write in law mean absolutely nothing. The government is proposing amendments and amendments to the law, and the law has not yet come into force. It's the shame of a serious government. If in Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, if there were to be changes to this number of laws that haven't even been brought to life and we're going to change and supplement the law? You know why? Because you don't have the right ones to write a good law. You don't have good experts to write a good law. Your laws are written by interns at the ministries. You don't get the laws written by people with professional experience. When it comes to local self-government, you are now struggling to regain local self-government, to come to power. But we've had a little trade so far, and now this bill opens up the possibilities, no matter which party where he wins, the possibilities open up that there's going to be a big trade. This has even proved to be practical. After the 2008 elections, a large number of municipalities were due to decommission the local system, but coalitions in the local government agreed that trade would provide the majority, so that no new elections would be called. What's going on? Those committees who are in some party, who are in a poor material position, are easily moving into a party that is in power, but at the same time I ask a question – is that corruption? Pure corruption. Why? When ten council members in one municipality move to another party and all 10 committees are immediately hired, or to the public-communal company "Greenenilo" or to the Directorate, or to the heating, or to go as volunteers, people at 50 are employed as volunteers in the city administration. Second, agricultural services and boards are set up during the winter to become farmers. There is nothing to guard, but it is therefore necessary for these committees to vote in the meetings of the congregations and in order to make decisions on the budget, etc. Public utility companies are very interesting for this government. The next power if you work like this, no matter which political party comes, it's shame, evil and wrong. Otherwise, there is great dissatisfaction in the people. I'm also in contact with people. The people are unhappy, the people have nothing to live on, the people complain about taxes big, high prices, unemployment, corruption and crime, from a number of these institutions, and here I have to say you will agree, I will not deceive you from 2000 to today in local self-government, budgetary control by the budgetary republican inspection of the local budget in municipalities. You see, you need budget control at the bar. Without it, there is absolutely no government. First of all, the government took the right to rule and to gather 20, 30 people there, and they decide on billions where funds will be invested on the site, whether they will be on roads, streets, health care, education or sewerage, plumbing, and there is not a word of employment. Everyone runs to public utility companies, everyone there is happy. Now, these are the feuds of political parties. In a municipality where there were three parties in power, one party lost its mandate because these two parties said – so we're not going with these, these abuse the official position, they're criminals, so they say -- here's where we find one director spent in cafes for six months four and a half million dinars on kebabs and drinks. The citizens can't take it anymore. That's why local government needs to be controlled. The government doesn't control these institutions, they don't control local government. Who controls the local government? Nobody. They control themselves, but citizens don't wonder at all. What are the priorities at the bar so we have to get rid of each other in the interest of the citizens. Nationality is dissatisfied, regardless of gentlemen, you will adopt this proposal on amendments to the law. It won't be a long time, you'll ask for changes and additions to the law again, but these changes and additions will not bring any improvement to the citizens living in the locals, living in villages, living in municipalities, in cities. They will not be better off with such proposals – European innovations. What is the greatest evil, let's look at modern Serbia, as it has adopted from the leader of Karadjords to today, primarily had its principles, its methods, its policy, but it has adopted some of the other more developed countries. What are we going to adopt now - American innovations? Imagine, American innovations, say, in Pancheva, in Jagodina, in Chajetina or Surdulica. What American innovations more? Let's move. What's up, Serbia? Serbia has good citizens, it has a good country, but I'm afraid this country will be sold... Mr. Jojic, time. I thank you, Madam President. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58484	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully followed all the debate on amendments and have not been involved in the debate so far. Just to answer a few of the concerns that have arisen with some opposition MPs. First, it is not true that there will be no motivation for citizens to participate in the elections, that people are running and that political parties have candidates for committees in local communities. If someone's in the last place, it doesn't mean they're going to be a councilman, but there are so many public functions in a municipal body, there are places in a municipal council, there are places in institutions, in cultures. The example works, only in the town of Krusevec, from which I come, is the appointment of over 350 municipal officials after the takeover of power. You can put these people on the list, so they don't have to be councilmen. If someone achieves a good result, make it a bigger member. Put people who are good candidates for council members on the committee list, be the last. As an MP, I'll be the last candidate for a councilman in the town of Krusevec, I don't have that problem, I'll work as if I were the first. You go ahead and be on your list last and you'll have a lot less trouble. When it comes to potential corruption and the purchase of councilmen, the purchase of MPs and councilmen did not prevent a swearing in the church, in the Gospel. That crossing of MPs did not prevent a swearing on parts of the party leader. Just to remind you that we had a chance to see at the time, when these European innovations weren't on stage, the scene that 11 MPs voted, there's a video of them taking 100,000 German voting marks. The prosecutor of the time said he was not sure that they voted for the 100,000 marks and did not press charges. I'll remind you that corruption was much more pronounced once than it was today. When we call for a modern Serbia from the period of Karadjordje and Obrenović, you know that I often go to the library, in the library I found this memo from the time of Obrenovic, where it is ordered the village farmer to do 25 beatings to another village clerk. It is not modern Serbia, do not call on these traditional values. We have many other traditional values to call upon. There is much in our history to be called upon, here sometimes I hear senseless and ridiculous findings, comparisons that we should look up to the European Serbia from the time of Emperor Dusan. What a European Serbia and what a Europe at the time of Emperor Dushan! Emperor Dusan ruled Serbia and became emperor in 1346 until 1356. Europe today is no longer a geographical concept, Europe is a political concept. Serbia is geographically in Europe, we are politically excluded from this great membership of civilized peoples. We are working here to meet these European standards, not to pin them down, but to improve our citizens. We first want to make Europe here, and then the citizens will decide in a referendum whether they want to go to the EU or not. Those standards we impose, they're certainly good standards. Speaking of criticisms at the expense of this law, this is not the perfect law, let me tell you right now, but the measure of political will in parliament is this law. It is likely that another parliamentary majority will in some other way shape it and customize it. Just to remind me that Mr. Milan Markovic has made a different proposal for legal solutions, that Mr. Milan Markovic has conducted a public debate on these legal solutions, that he has invested enormous effort and energy. Certainly, the legal solutions he then offered will find its place in Serbia's political life. This is probably a transitional solution, but it is necessary and necessary to meet and meet certain standards on the road to the EU. Finally, although Milan Markovic is not there, I would like to say that he has done a huge job, not only with this law but also with other things, but it is not true that no municipality in Serbia has been subject to budgetary control. If someone doesn't know it happened, if that finding is a fruit of ignorance, not information or evil intentions, it doesn't mean it didn't happen. Over five hundred budgetary controls are being done for the mandate of a government. Budgetary control has been conducted in all cities. It is now being held in the town of Kruševec. It was conducted in the town of Kuč, where it was in the power of the SRS and there is no problem that budgetary control is doing its job or there are political implications that anyone can say – I use the position of minister, state secretary from the party in power to prevent the arrival of budgetary inspectors. It's an independent control, which works independently, meaning an independent analysis of budgetary operations. The municipalities are obliged to do and hire independent audit institutions, bodies to carry out their own control of the municipal budget or city budget, and the Republic of Serbia has the possibility through the finance ministry and other institutions to carry out extraordinary controls. At the end of this presentation, I'm going to ask you again to vote for this bill, because we want to make standards here that bring this country closer to the great family of the European people that you have no fear of doing that job that we all do together as a congregation majority. Let me tell you that there is no conspiracy theory and that no one in Brussels, not in Rome, not in Madrid, not in Athens, not with just one thought of what I'm going to do to those Serbs today, these people have enough problems of their own, they don't need to create problems for themselves or impose problems on us. This country is resting on partnership with EU countries. As much as it bothers us and doesn't mind this partnership will be conducted on equal grounds without giving up our national identity, our religious identity, all of those personalities that Serbia has. On the contrary, it will be a wealth for the EU, and it will not poverty the EU. On the other hand, I can finally tell you that you have brought forth a lot of fears that have not been argued either in real-state facts and that you have made a lot of accusations at the expense of current authorities that are not justified by the fact that they are, in particular, accused of organised crime. Organised crime is thanks to legal solutions that you unfortunately did not support, such as the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime has suffered a serious blow and organised crime in this country has been defeated, and I do not say so, according to the security services of Russia, America, European states, international organisations, institutions and UN and Serbia all praise the cutting-off of organised drug-trafficking chains around the world. It's facts and it's facts, arguments, not me. I bring this up primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of you, because I am absolutely confident that you know and feel it in everyday life.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58485	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. (Petar Jojic, from the place: Replica. Come in, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58486	Madam President, I understood very well my colleague who had previously spoken and presented and challenged some of the facts that the SRS MPs were talking about. But I cannot agree that the state auditor has exercised budgetary control in many of the institutions of this country. As far as I know, from 2001 to today even the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget has not been made, has not been carried out by the auditor. What's the problem? To prevent corruption and crime, why didn't the DRI work come to life? You remember three, four years ago that we searched Belgrade, hired a number of people to tell us if there was a state auditor somewhere and we barely found him in a room upstairs. There were four of them, and no one, the Rules of Procedure and the Systematization Regulation, stood with the former president of the Assembly for years and was not put up for adoption before the National Assembly. There's been a DRI formation. Mr. Sretenovic has been elected director of the institution, but there are no conditions why the state, or government, escapes to organise better DRI work and that the DRI includes 8,500 budget users, it is missing... And only the DRI needs to exercise control...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-19-0.u58487	Time. For the first time, we have a report from Mr. Sretenovic, the auditor, this year and of course it will be on the agenda. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Wednesday (July 20th), starting at 17.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I thank you for your participation in the work. I'll see you tomorrow at 5:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, there are 88 of us, and in order to correctly determine the quorum, please place the cards in the MPs' units of the electronic system. At this point, there are 126 of us, which means there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Mladen Grujic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the agenda points of this session, we are moving to a decision. We move to point 1 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections The National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 127 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Group of MPs to Serbia's 9th and the peoples of the Parliament of Nemanja Sarovic to Article 12. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, we are in principle moving to a decision on amendments. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments with correction to Article 2. The bill was submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 119 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment with the correction. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 20 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, in general. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 123 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. We are moving to the 2nd item of the agenda – REFERRED TO THE AGE REPORT OF THE CITIZER FOR 2010. One year, with the proposal to lock up the Justice and Administration Committee after the National Assembly has carried out a single search, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft conclusions on the regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2010, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a conclusion on the regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protectors for 2010, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. The next session is, as you know, scheduled for 17:30, so I'm asking you to be here in ten minutes. (The session is closed at 17.20 p.m. )
