ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50355	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, when we made a new Rules of Procedure, which stemmed from the obligations following the adoption of the Constitution and the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly, this Rules of Procedure, which, having seen previous shortcomings, provided for and procedures and procedures to monitor the work of those bodies and bodies chosen by the National Assembly, as well as some other procedures that had not been defined before, among other things, because many of these independent regulatory bodies and state bodies we have chosen since 2000 have not existed before. When we established a procedure for controlling the work of these bodies and bodies chosen by the National Assembly, we wanted to fully fulfil the constitutional obligation and the right of the National Assembly to supervise their work, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to specify how the reports that these bodies and bodies are required to submit to the Assembly are discussed. I will only remind ourselves that we have had a problem considering the reports of some independent regulatory bodies because it has not been established in which way the National Assembly is considering these reports and what kind of acts the National Assembly brings after considering these reports because it has simply not been defined. When we defined Article 237, our intention was not to establish any space in which any political pressure on independent regulatory bodies could be applied. On the contrary, when we chose independent regulatory bodies, especially those tasked with controlling and overseeing the work of the state authorities and authorities of the administration, and protecting the rights of citizens, in the laws in which we defined the work of these independent state bodies, we firstly installed all those instruments that would prevent any possibility of political pressure on their work, because we were starting from the fact that independence in their work is the assumption that they could do the work that they were responsible for in the best possible way. It turns out that the definition in Article 237 was interpreted, or it left the possibility that at some point some abuse of a part of this article could put pressure on independent regulatory bodies. In order to remove any possibility that, at any time, by considering the reports of these independent regulatory bodies, we have proposed that these Rules of Procedure be amended in Article 237, by proposing, in paragraph 5, that the indent 5 be deleted, which in some ways gave room for interpretation, that the review of the report and the non-acceptance of the report should be initiated automatically and the question of the responsibility of independent regulatory bodies. What we have proposed is that the procedure for considering the report of independent regulatory bodies dealing with the fight against corruption, the protection of citizens' equality, the protection of citizens' rights, the State Audit Authority, therefore, those independent state bodies that need to supervise the work of the authorities and in this procedure, we have provided for this proposal to consider the report, in order to avoid any possibility of political pressure, to implement the procedure in which the committee is considering the report, proposes to the National Assembly of Conclusions, and the purpose of these conclusions is to propose measures and recommendations to improve the situation in those areas. This does not mean that, as some media have misrepresented, the congregation does not have the right to oversee the work of those authorities. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly defines, in Article 99, that the National Assembly is overseeing the work of these authorities and that, at the same time, the National Assembly, in addition to choosing those bodies, is also resolving them by special procedures and by the law established by those bodies. What is our intention is to remove any suspicion, but also any possible space for possible abuse that could at some point try to influence their own self-indulgence, when considering the reports of these independent regulatory bodies. That is why I call on you all to vote together on the motion for this decision on the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, because I do not think we have any doubt that those who have voted and voted for these independent regulatory bodies, but also those who have not voted and today see the full meaning of their existence and the need to be independent and preserved from any political pressure understand that this effort is going in the direction that even those who were our critics when we made these decisions, and later called for the work of these independent state bodies, claimed that we want to establish political control, we want to remove this decision any possibility that any political pressure on these independent regulatory bodies is ever made. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50356	I would like to thank Mrs. Kolundgia for her excellent explanation. Does the Management Board's reporter want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50357	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50358	Mr. Krassic, please don't interfere with the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50359	There is no doubt on our part that we will support every effort aimed at strengthening the integrity of regulatory bodies. We don't have a dilemma about it, we from LDP, to support these changes in the Rules of Procedure and that's just fine. It seems to me that we are all aware of the importance of state regulatory bodies, that their basic function is control of the government. And as the government has been in control lately, and so far, I think we're all witnessing how that control was going. Therefore, there is clearly one segment missing to strengthen the integrity of these national regulatory bodies, which is independence, which is usually part of the Constitution's description of these national regulatory bodies. As just one example, I would like to point out how the national regulatory bodies work in Serbia. Take, say, the State Auditing Institution. Since the establishment of the institution, until 2010, when it first appeared more seriously, it has been several years. We only had last year, for the first time since 2001, the 'final budget' account. We only had some kind of control last year, by the State Auditor, the way the budget was spent, by the ministries. I think it's inadmissible that state regulatory bodies have a certain deviation, have certain reserves when they need to perform their basic function, control of the government. So we need our regulatory bodies to work objectively, to work independently and to work without gloves, because it's actually the proper control of the government. I think it's clear that these changes are needed in the Rules of Procedure and that's the fact. We don't have a problem with those changes. We support them, however, the problem arises that this Rules of Procedure was brought less than a year ago. And the question arises, what has changed so much in the way the government function and control and the authorities needed these amendments to be proposed, and what way in which Parliament's work and its relationship with regulatory bodies could not have been foreseen even last year during the draft Rules of Procedure? So that's the general problem with all our regulations. Why we actually need a European Commission to point out that we do not reach certain standards in different segments of the functioning of the state, whether it is human rights, the functioning of institutions or the control of government. This is, in fact, the main problem with these amendments and the additions of the Rules of Procedure, because in less than a year we are making a serious deviation and a serious change in Parliament's attitude towards independent state regulatory bodies. It seems to me that when we take into account the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Commissioner for Equality, the Nautilus, the State Auditing Institution, then we can see that they need help from the executive authority, as well as assistance and support from parliament. So all the branches of the government are obliged to give any kind of support to these regulatory bodies, if we really want to have a rule of law. Therefore, if we expect and require these regulatory bodies to perform their basic function, which is, again, undermining, the control of the authorities, in that case we must give such support, as is one of the other things, and amendments to the Rules of Procedure. You'll agree that that's not enough, too, that parliament can't just change its attitude towards state regulatory bodies. This relationship must change the executive power, because it is, in that case, that factor, a force that can largely limit the work of these national regulatory bodies. And then what happens to us is that control is insufficient, that control is unclear, that some marginal things are controlled, that there are no big gaps, big abuses being made when budgets are spent. Therefore, LDP must support any effort aimed at strengthening the integrity of regulatory bodies, towards strengthening the rule of law. And, for that reason, we will support these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. I think that each of the MPs present here, if he thinks carefully about whether we need to have an independent state auditor, whether we need to have an independent anti-corruption agency or an ombudsman, that he will also respond and that he will also confirm in the same way that at least an attempt by Parliament to change this relationship to regulatory bodies. But also regulatory bodies, when they receive this kind of support, have an obligation both to Parliament and to citizens who have elected these MPs, who make up this Parliament, to carry out their jobs, their duties, and to mention the main function and the main obligation of control of the authorities, to carry out and to realize.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50360	Thank you. National MP Milisav Petronijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50361	Dear Presidents, MPs, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure and will vote in favour of the decision in the voting day. The SPS-JS parliamentary group is also a signator of the Rules of Procedure's amendment proposal. For the sake of the public, and I will remain, in a few minutes, on the question, what is this amendment to the Rules of Procedure being made? That's only one reason, but it's an important reason. This change seeks to specify the attitude of the National Assembly towards independent state bodies. It wishes to remove any doubt as to the possibility of a breach of the Constitution and the law of the established position of an independent body. In this way, inter alia, it wants to support independent authorities, wants to provide all assistance to strengthen their capacities. It is proposed to be in Article 237. The Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5, deletes indent 5 – that the Assembly may, on a proposal from the Committee, not accept the report and initiate a procedure for determining the responsibilities of officials in the state body, organisation or body, because there was an opinion in the public that this could be misused. I think even this formulation could have remained, for a simple reason, because it said in Section 5, that this could be done, 'if the law is not otherwise arranged. '"If the law is different, it can't. Let us take an example of the Citizens' Protector, an institution that is very important, which is very important and which the Assembly gives full support to, therefore, an independent independent body, there very clearly and precisely says that it can be resolved, that it is done by the Assembly, but if the precise conditions are met and by clear procedure. So it's the only way to get rid of it. However, in order to avoid any doubt, this correction should be carried out, and I will explain it from another angle, in relation to the one we heard or read in the light of the proposal for a decision. This assembly pays great attention to independent state bodies, relations with them, and considers it very important to establish good communication between the National Assembly and independent state bodies. Independent state authorities submit an annual report to the Assembly. They submit a report on the activities, on the results, on the situation in these areas, submit, as I would say, the proposals, the observed shortcomings, etc. I think that communication should be further improved, so that periodic reports or special reports are provided as needed, depending on the need. I consider very significant reports of independent authorities. First, by considering the report of the independent bodies of the Assembly, in fact, performs its function, one of the basic functions, which is a supervisory function. Thus, reports by independent state authorities help the Assembly to perform its supervisory work. On the one hand, it is also an aid and support to the National Assembly to accomplish its function. On the other hand, the Assembly has the right to act, to consider whether the institution fulfils its purpose, whether it is responsible. So it is a significant question of the work reports submitted by independent state authorities, on the one hand, to support the National Assembly, through the work they do, that it performs its supervisory function, and, on the other hand, that they too are not forgotten. Once again, I would like to point out that this amendment is important and should be accepted in order to remove any doubt that it can be misused, but also to mention, to resolve an independent state body is not sufficient just a report and that provision can be applied – if the law is not different. So, removing any doubt, full support to independent authorities and, among other things, they are supporting and helping the National Assembly to perform its supervisory function. But another message, the independent state authorities are and should be independent and independent, but it does not release them from responsibility. They are independent and independent, they work according to specifically passed laws, however, it does not mean if they are independent and independent, that they are also separate from the National Assembly. They are independent and independent in work and operation, autonomous in this function. If they were independent of the National Assembly, they would question the National Assembly and its central role in democratic society in Serbia. Therefore, it should be borne in mind that this form of independence and independence of state authorities does not release the responsibility of independent state bodies and relations to the National Assembly. Finally, the National Assembly sets them up, the National Assembly resolves them, the National Assembly controls their work, and I repeat again, in accordance with the conditions, procedures provided for by special laws since the establishment of these bodies. But control, control of the work of these authorities does not undermine the independence and independence of independent state bodies. In addition to these two messages, I wanted to point out that the state independent authorities and the Assembly are in the same job, they share the same common goal, which is: protecting the rights of citizens and, of course, legal work of the Authority of Administration. For these very reasons, and for the reason that we want to give full support to independent authorities, of which the National Assembly has, we will vote on this motion in the day of voting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50362	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50363	President, dear fellow Members of the People, we are faced here with a kind of ex-post mind. About a year ago, the Rules of Procedure was brought in, by imposing a thin parliamentary majority, other MPs and citizens of Serbia. Today we have an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which needs to save something that is black and blackest possible was written a year ago in this place in Article 237. Otherwise, this change would never have occurred, nor would the ruling majority have ever thought to change anything in the Rules of Procedure if it hadn't been for pressure. There are a few interesting things here in this proposal and very interesting in the way it reacts, and that we have to point out simply for the public, and also for all of us sitting here to think about it a little bit. Therefore, it is doubtless a change that has been made to pressure the European Commission. If any "pressure" or suggestion, therefore, had come from any MP who did not belong to the ruling majority, and even someone who belonged to that ruling majority, there would have been no political will to change anything here. That's the point. So what's undeniable here, we had a bad provision and what's also undeniable, this provision now proposed by the ruling majority, corrects the matter. Therefore, that is what is undeniable. Al, let's see what's changing here and what's the point of all this. In Article 237. The Rules of Procedure, which has been imposed by the thin ruling majority of the entire parliament, reads: "The President of the National Assembly delivers the reports submitted by the state authorities, organisations and bodies, in accordance with the law, to the National Assembly, to the MPs and to the board of directors. ''Well, then, it explains what the committee in charge and the National Assembly are doing now with these reports, and at the end of that Article 237, at some numbered points, it stands, still, that the committee responsible can 'not accept the report', among other things, there are other things that it does, but it can also not accept the report of that regulatory body, as we call it, or any other independent body 'and initiates a procedure to determine the responsibilities of officials in the state body, organisation, or body. ''That 'i' means a cumulative action, non-acceptance of the report, cumulatively implies and initiates the process of responsibility. It is, in practice, the liquidation of the independent position of these bodies, which are designed as an independent body. Now I need something on the regulatory bodies themselves. And now I have to say something about independent regulatory bodies. The emergence of independent regulatory bodies or other special state bodies or organisations in society is a newer date, and when I say so, I think of a few decades behind us, because it is a new tradition of European systems and some other systems in the world, which practically establishes something that little comes out of the vision – three independent authorities. We have a legislative, executive and court, and now we have a special phenomenon of bodies and organizations, which are neither executive authority, nor are they simply an extended hand of the legislative authority, or the Assembly that elects them. Of course, the system of division of responsibility and complete independence doesn't exist anywhere in the world, it's one fiction, but the tendency that certain bodies act independently is very important and must be kept until the end, precisely because of the imagined function of these bodies. To be more clear about what it is, to say very simply, the Assembly as such, history has shown, there is never in itself enough control mechanisms to control the executive power in certain segments or certain activities of exceptional public importance, such as information. There are not enough mechanisms, because by its nature that the congregations have been established, even ours, whatever we do here, whatever we write in the Rules of Procedure, there are not enough elements that could carry out that kind of control and protection. A newer history of parliamentaryism and democracy also shows that such bodies are necessary. In order for those bodies to make sense, it is necessary that they really possess a high degree of independence in work, with one exception, that whoever chose that body can also set up and resolve the leader of that body, and, in doing so, the provisions on the establishment and resolution must be very restrictive from the aspect of Parliament's will. So it can't be every time someone thinks or doesn't like someone, that they're resolved, but the purpose of forming those bodies has to be different. There are different possibilities for forming these bodies. We've chosen a system that I don't think is the best. Why didn't we choose the system that the regulatory bodies, this is some shouting, this may be some proposal for the future, for some later time, to be chosen by some qualified majority in the National Assembly, which would mean that a consensus must be reached between the authorities and the opposition for the choice of bodies. That would make a lot of sense, then. It's not everywhere, but there are examples. So, what's the main problem here? The problem is that these independent state bodies, if they're not free, and if they work under pressure, can't perform their basic function. I'll give you a simple example, we have a state audit institution that has an obligation to oversee the display of a particular segment of the executive government, which primarily concerns the spending of financial resources and budgets. Where an irregularity is observed, the State Auditory Institution shall react both to the public and to a certain state body and, of course, inform the Assembly thereof. Imagine, since every state government is formed by the fact that there is a ruling majority who always educates that state power, first of all, executive power, if the State Audit Authority is independent and delivers a negative report on the work of certain state authorities, first of all, ministries, this will not be liked by the political nature of things by the ruling majority. After that, the ruling majority could then be angry with the state auditor each time, not to adopt his report that one ministry is working backwards and replacing the state auditor; simple as beans. What's stopping us from doing that? Maybe a little embarrassing from such a procedure, maybe we should think about not arguing with the state auditor just like that, because we don't look at ourselves, but we're looking at someone else on the side, especially someone that this ruling majority cares about, and that's the European Commission. Simply, we cannot have unsustainable provisions in our legislation, nor in the Rules of Procedure, which stimulate such a erroneous attitude towards these independent bodies. In that sense, this change is favourable, because one previous bad provision puts out of force. But the question is, where did the ex-post mind come from, how did someone who wrote the Rules of Procedure not see it, and we in the opposition never wrote it, nor did we participate in the vote, how could it be necessary for someone from the European Commission to signal to someone that there was a problem?- I'm sorry. I don't even believe that this change is made out of the deep conviction of those sitting on the side of the ruling majority that this is correct and necessary, but they are doing it because they are told that it has to be done. Just because the argument drinks water doesn't mean that someone who organizes the business of government in Serbia is deeply and heartily in agreement with that argument, but knows that it has to be done. It is interesting that the proposal for this regulation, in its explanation, somewhere, in the end, in its head, the alignment of the decision with the European Union rules, reads: ''There is no obligation to bring the Rules of Procedure in line, as an internal act of the National Assembly, with the regulations of the European Union. ''In doing so, in the questionnaire, which came from the EU, there are issues concerning the regulation of Parliament's work and the direct Rules of Procedure. And when we received a complaint from the European Commission, we received a complaint from this section about the contents of the Rules of Procedure. So, it is formally true what is written, but it is essentially not true and it is talking about the complete irresponsibility of those who, most of the votes in this House, are making regulations, even if it was an internal act, and their way of thinking, in general. When we warned that the Rules of Procedure was always to bring consensus, if possible, and not to run away from it, such an argument was welcomed here with impoliteness. I know that the ruling majority can always do anything, whoever's in it, so that my political party is in some ruling majority, but there are certain decisions, there are certain acts which are therefore required to be made by a broader consensus, precisely because these situations would be avoided. Let's not have this story, let's have another story, so you'll see how many leaks and flaws there are. We, for example, have received this list of who will speak in the National Assembly, the order of the reported debaters, and in this order of the registered debaters next to the name and last name stands the bracket in which to write "yes" or "no", which means that the declared debater is declared whether it will be "yes" or "against" the proposed text of the decision, because the Rules of Procedure provide for the criteria by which the discussions are being replaced, one "for", the other "against", in order to make a balance in the course of the debate. Then it was determined in time, by those who wrote this current Rules of Procedure, that there was a situation for someone not to write whether it was "yes" or "no". Then we find a Solomon solution that those who have not declared whether "yes" or "no" are put at the end of the list. Someone thought at one point that it was a brilliant solution and now we have it published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and we have this Rules of Procedure in force – and here's what this is about. You have names here from different political parties, you have names from a party that proposes the text of this decision. He writes the name of the MP who belongs to the ZES, who proposes this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, and stands in brackets without the "yes" or "no". Why? Because they heard or saw that the others submitted a proposal without the "yes" or "no", so that there would be no concentration of the number of MPs in one place without "yes" or "no", then those who are for this decision, obviously because they suggest, write that they do not know whether they are "yes" or "no" simply so as not to disrupt order and balance. Is that a normal regulation of the Rules of Procedure? Here, you see, in practical application, it doesn't matter. That's what this is about. When it comes to this provision of Rule 237, and the subsequent mind, this example shows, only this is not the European Commission's attention yet, let's say they don't care, how bad it is when a provision of Rules of Procedure or Rules is brought at all without a serious conversation, a pleasant tone in that conversation, because this is something left for later, for future times, between not those who consider themselves or are the ruling majority and the rest of MPs in parliament. That's why it's important to talk about these things seriously. We from the Democratic Party of Serbia have not participated in working groups for the making of the Rules of Procedure, because since the beginning of the procedure or the way she wanted to impose a debate on the change of Rules of Procedure was wrong. I'm not saying that other groups might have been interested in showing, that's how we're making the effort, so we didn't succeed in that effort, so eventually there was a revote. Our methodology was completely different, and it turned out we were right. If a single opposition group had voted in favour of this Rules of Procedure, after participating in the group's work, it would have shown that the DSS was wrong. Then someone could say – the DSS was wrong not to participate in the Change of Rules group, because, behold, another parliamentary group of the opposition participated and came to the conclusion that something was done there which was acceptable. That didn't happen. The ruling majority, by agreement between themselves, reached this Rules of Procedure and we did not participate. So what's written here is much better than what's written, but even now that this proposal is written and it's unwise, bad and doesn't deserve attention as per a proposal that has some serious foundation, first of all, in legal knowledge, in the knowledge of writing regulations or in the language of which the text is written. Now I'm going to prove it to you on a simple case. At first I read to you the 1st position of Article 237, which says: "The President of the National Assembly delivers the reports which the state authorities, organisations and bodies, in accordance with the law, submitted to the National Assembly, to the MPs and to the committee of directors," and these provisions are further elaborated. Then Article 237a is added, after erasing this disputed provision, to explain what is actually happening to that report now, more specifically, those bodies. It is then stated, saying, "A report which, in accordance with the law, is submitted to the National Assembly by an independent state body", which states their jobs, "which protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the public administration body, the body responsible for the legal protection of property rights", and then "provides the right to the availability of information of public importance" and so on, "is an audit of public funds", which is the DRI, and so on. Why is that spelled? Why should he write to someone in the Rules of Procedure the listing of the affairs of state independent audit bodies? Why do you do that? There is a way of nomotechnical nature which is solved in Article 237 very correctly. Here we just need to work out these provisions, not write things, because first and foremost in a nomotechnical sense, it is not right, it can happen in two months, in two months, to make a change in the area, to increase the number of jobs, to reduce them, or to regulate them differently, or to renamise them, and then we should probably re-apply the amendments to the Rules of Procedure to make it better. The Rules of Procedure are not a law that regulates the relationship between these bodies and the National Assembly, this should be done in certain regulations governing the choice and education of such institutions. This is not a place in the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure contain minimum provisions that regulate the conduct of our congregation bodies in relation to their obligations. There's an exaggeration here. This, too, is not normal what is written, although the intensity and what has been done far better than what is written in the current text. So, and this decision to change and amend the Rules of Procedure, we got by making a commission, again a parliamentary commission where representatives of different political parties should be involved, in order to come to this solution. It always happens by having the ruling majority get pressure or some terrible desire to make a certain change, to legitimize themselves with a decision they make calling everyone to come, my colleagues from other parties who don't see the catch run, come and participate in the work, from what they say there will probably be nothing at the end of the realisation of the decision itself. There's a vision of a common job and we're moving on. This is not a criticism of the concrete text that lies ahead. I hope that's where we get along. He can be criticised too, you can better write what's written, but this is a criticism of manners, the wrong way of working that's represented here by the ruling coalition. So that's something that's absolutely unacceptable and that's why we don't formally participate in the business of amending our Rules of Procedure, unless we're convinced that the relationship with this thing is going to be very different. He's expecting us, which is because of some pressure, which is because of the pressure of reality, who knows how many changes this Rules of Procedure has been made a year ago, not because things and circumstances are going to change, but because someone who's back-to-back wrote something, simply when he wrote it he didn't see it, and he didn't see it because he didn't want to talk. That's the essence of the story about all of this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50364	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50365	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, of course, I would always be in favour that everything we can bring full consent to all political factors, but I do not know any country in which it is possible, even in those in whom there is a truly high degree of mutual support when certain general matters and general interests are at stake. So where there is a multi-party system, the most common acts are brought by majority. Is that what someone calls a thin majority, and in doing so he passed laws without a thin majority, rather than a minority government, then the question is does he understand how parliament works or doesn't understand how parliament works?- I'm sorry. So if the act was brought in mostly, he has full legality and I don't think there's much point in discussing it. Of course, I am in favour of working together on things that are of general interest, but I have no illusion that in this political situation of serious political conflict we can make decisions by general consensus. In addition, the Constitution is adopted as it is expected to be brought – by a broad political consensus and just shows that there are serious shortcomings. Thus, the fact that something is brought by a broad consensus does not remove the possibility that there are no shortcomings in such an act that become evident later on. Among other things, the fact that the Constitution defined a system like this, and that some MPs here claim that we didn't choose the best system, proves that we didn't choose the best system with the Constitution. What is important is that the laws forming independent state bodies or other state bodies are mainly defined and the way in which the selection and resolution of function holders are carried out in those state bodies. At the same time, these laws also define how and how these state authorities' obligations are related to responsibility to the Assembly and the submission of the report. At the same time, some state authorities have an obligation, i.e. the Serbian Parliament, have the authority to consider, adopt or adopt reports by some state authorities. The laws of some independent regulatory bodies, which we have defined their jurisdiction, define that their reports are not adopted, or adopted, so that they are also considered and that the Assembly adopts a proposal for measures and conclusions to improve the area for which they are responsible. That is precisely why this provision of the Rules of Procedure is now, on the basis of legal solutions, exempt from those independent state bodies that have the obligation to submit a report to the National Assembly, but their report is not something the Assembly adopts or not adopts, but the Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee, adopts conclusions and a proposal for measures. This is why some of these state authorities have been singled out and written down a procedure that is in accordance with the laws that have defined how their report is considered. Whether someone had good intentions or had no good intentions, whether someone was pressured or not to change something, I think it's an insufficient political argument. If this parliamentary majority adopts all the laws to which these independent bodies form, if it defines their jurisdiction and independence until the end, if it chooses people who later show that, by respecting the law, they really work as independent and independent, if it gives support to everything that comes even as an objection from them, so I accept, this has also come from independent regulatory bodies which do not have the obligation to adopt their report in the Assembly and therefore should not establish automation that, if no report is adopted, the question of responsibility can be raised. Of course we heard them. That's also one of the reasons. If it is wrong to admit a mistake and correct that mistake, indeed building a system in which there will be organs and bodies that will have a full degree of independence, will not be exposed to political pressures, then I accept that we are in the future ready to remove any mistake of this species, which we make, as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50366	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50367	Just two things. First, when the question of the majority I have asked here is defined, it does not matter whether the executive power has minority support in parliament. It is important that decisions in parliament be made by a majority of votes, according to the procedure foreseen by the Rules of Procedure and defined by the assembly majority. When I talk about the ruling majority, I think of the congregation majority, so that observation is completely meaningless. The second thing, when it comes to the essence of this which we obviously didn't understand very well, when I say that there is an ex-post mind, maybe it sounds a little ruckus, maybe it sounds offensive to someone, but when I'm talking about a lateral mind compared to a document that I think is bad, which I don't think is just bad, but also different institutions, in conclusion with the same European Commission that clearly puts pressure on it, it's inappropriate to compare this situation and the way that document was brought to the document that's the Constitution of the country and that's brought to the consensus, as it is correctly said in the replica of the promoter, and that these two things are compared and said – this is brought to the consensus, so it's not good; this is done by revote, so it's not good. Well, that's not true! What has been brought by consensus, basically right, and what you would like to change in an act that has been brought by consensus and what you claim is wrong, it comes down to the state's growing up, it comes down to the objective fear of your actions that need to break up the state tissue, to turn Vojvodina into something that shouldn't even be under the present Constitution, and by law, as you've brought 'false' to parliament, and what you're about to write in the Constitution, I can imagine. What's gonna happen to Kim, what's gonna happen to other things? Do you think the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must accept any other situation than democratic ones? That's what pressure is being put on you too, that's where you work, too, under external pressure...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50368	Time. Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Excuse me, Mrs. Kolundjia, first.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50369	... I'm done. It's just two options.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50370	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. I'll be very brief. The fact that someone won't admit that even an act brought by consensus can be bad, just from the point of view of democratic criteria and principles, that's his problem. The fact that someone, fleeing from it, is trying to accuse others of wanting to change something that they don't want to change and that by "crushing," it's said, the country's state tissue, it's also a lack of argument and an attempt to defend what else, which is indefensible, allegedly saying it wants to change something that no one will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50371	National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it weren't for this media torture and darkness that is ruling Serbia, this topic would probably be in the top places in all the media, along with a reform of justice reform, which you tried to complete about two months ago. So it is not so much a problem for me that, when the European Commission warns you that something is not in line with the general principles governing democratic countries, you immediately run to correct it, even though I think it is a good thing that you run to correct it, and it is not a good thing that you don't feel what you have to do to make this country democratic and that free people live in this country. And what you bring first, "it's you," and what you bring as a correction, "it's you." Are you really going to let for hundreds of years someone who has developed democracy enough and freedoms affect us to change what we may never understand? You're talking about a consensus on law-making. Of course it's not necessary. But have you ever accepted one remark, one suggestion? We've been here for years to talk about how you've done the cutting of judges and you've unsanitaryly rejected, ridiculously, for God's sakes, we don't know anything, and you're the witness that Mr. Phil in a joint meeting with all the heads of Parliament has warned about these two questions and that you've been doing it spotlessly. Therefore, what the public of Serbia resents, what political factors resent you, I call the opposition, and you call the conflicted parties, whatever you want, you don't care because you have a majority. And you understand so much what the majority of you have said for a moment—the laws were passed here by a minority government. The government does not pass laws, the laws are passed by the Assembly. There is no minority congregation that passed the law. If she had most of the legislation, that law would apply. It wasn't just the laws that were passed before you, you harshly annulled them. This is about trying to create a vision of democracy and freedom in this country. And when it says there in all the programs that there should be independent regulatory bodies, you make them independent of the Assembly and the public, and depending on the political will of those in power. You're saying here that this change and addition removes suspicion that the Constitution could be a violation of the position of independent state bodies. Whose suspicion? Who doubts you that these authorities are not sufficiently protected by a Rules of Procedure who did not even know whether the congregation should consider their report or not? How can there be any doubt that the rules of the Rules of Procedure and the laws are being adopted or amended? If something is not in line with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court is considering it, since it is not worth it to you here to object that something is unconstitutional, you always say – let the Constitutional Court decide on it. Who has now expressed their suspicion, and we must immediately change what you brought yourself? Now I'm interested in what your political will is, what is your sense of democracy and freedom? What did you bring in fighting the opposition in the assembly or what you bring in fighting the EU's perceptions? Otherwise, to convert the examination of reports by independent authorities, reports submitted to the National Assembly, into consideration of the committee responsible – it is not right for the National Assembly. The committee responsible cannot consider the report submitted to the National Assembly without being considered by the National Assembly. I now question whether you are in violation of the Constitution by the fact that a committee, in which you also have a majority, but whose sessions are not transmitted, assumes the full jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Then what about the National Assembly?- I'm sorry. You're ousting the position that the National Assembly may be suggested not to accept the report. And who can determine what the National Assembly can do, and what it can't do, and especially if it's received a report, well, it can accept it or not accept it at all or not get it at all? Have the competent regulatory authorities report to the public. And these are those responsible bodies that have not yet been allowed into some ministries this year, such as the State Auditor. Why doesn't he say why he doesn't have reports for some ministries? He didn't make it? So why didn't he go to the most important ministries first? Why did he go to the pubs to count lunches, how many ministers ate and drank? That's what's gonna upset the public. Why doesn't it say where a quarter of all public procurement in Serbia went, why it doesn't say why 30% of all public procurement works are surplus and unplanned works? Let's see who's spending it, and that, where the minister had lunch and whether or not he had lunch, we don't care at all. And you said a very dangerous thing, you said that we didn't do well with the Constitution and that there were serious shortcomings. Well, why don't we approach the amendments to the Constitution? How long will there be a constitution that everyone claims has serious shortcomings and we act like it's good? I would ask you to remind those who defile monuments, board members, that they have no right to receive a MP under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50373	Gentlemen, please do not disturb Mr Nikolic. Please don't put me in a position to react in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50374	Don't, you've just established good relationships, now you're spoiling them. Don't. I'm so happy when you're nice to those in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50375	Mr. Nikolic, I suggest you stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50376	Well, you stop me, don't run a session of the National Assembly in the Rules of Procedure. So if this helps the regulatory bodies to be independent, and there's no word "smaller" or "more independent," and so far they haven't been independent, then these changes are good and it's good that you adopt them. But if that's what you're trying to do, just to create an illusion of how we're changing the state and making it better and more orderly, even if it's under the pressure of the European Commission, and if we're facing new changes and complementing what you're ruining in the meantime, then that's not good. It is unpleasant to call the meetings of the National Assembly to change what is not good, and to what others have warned you. It's embarrassing to have extraordinary sessions where we don't solve the most important issues in the country! It's embarrassing that we don't know who's been running health care since Monday! I'm reading on TV that there's a minister of labour, social affairs and health care. Is it possible that you're the one who beat it without the National Assembly knowing anything about it? Uncomfortable that we do not know what the government of the Republic of Serbia looks like, it is unpleasant that we do not know which parties remain in the ruling coalition, which are not, it is unpleasant that there is no Prime Minister in the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50377	Mr. Nikolic, it's embarrassing that you don't follow the agenda. Please stick to the agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50378	God is my witness that for two years I have warned you that you are doing evil in Serbia and that this is going to come down on your head and make me uncomfortable about it. If I had real conversation and you had ears to listen to Serbia would be in a much better situation than today. And I'm embarrassed that in April you're going to live to get out of power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50379	The rapporteur, the People's Ambassador of Hope Kolundji, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50380	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, we do not hide at all that the standards that apply in the developed democratic EU countries are the standards that we want to apply. Anyone who tries to attribute it to us as if we're not saying it openly is, in fact, trying in some way to cover up their own bought-out consciousness, because he's willing to do it, but he won't say it in public. We listen to those whose standards we want to apply, we don't listen to Montgomery, we don't pay him to be our advisor. Some of the people's messengers have come from the place, "Ooo, ow, ow!" ) Of course, when we think about what kind of democratic society we want to build, surely a good adviser can't be a Chetnik duke who claimed he didn't regret killing a journalist, who claimed that Serbia should remain a hole in the golden European carpet, which he claimed and threatened everyone he threatened. So, I'm sorry, he can't be our adviser in our EU accession process and he can't be our adviser in democratisation of society. At least, he could be our role model, the man who said he was going to question the court's decision on the basis of which he was convicted of the prime minister's murderer, the Legion, and that if he convinced himself that he was innocent, he would change his mind. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50381	National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50382	Mrs. Kolundjia, I've been listening to this story for 10 years and as you say those words, you know that our reputation among Serbian citizens is growing. Change the board, it's hatching. I've never offered to be your associate in the work you do. Since we formed the SNS, I am telling you, we will change you, we will be the next power. I never told you. Here we have formed a party. We want to cooperate with you. What do we cooperate on, Mrs. Kolundjia? Let's say all this stuff you said about me is true, let's keep me from being a respectable man, did I ruin Serbia?- I'm sorry. Did I tear Serbia apart?- I'm sorry. Did I bring white-world thieves to kidnap everything we created in Serbia?- I'm sorry. Did I fire the workers so they wouldn't have a job anymore?- I'm sorry. Did I take orders from the ambassador?- I'm sorry. You resent me for working with my former ambassador. Well, what's that all about? Is he an ambassador now? Is that America William Montgomery or is America Mary Warlick? Let's see who he's working with. Let's see who he listens to. If you were to judge what happened to the man in your life, I could say I couldn't hang out with you guys because you used to pee in diapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50383	Mr. Nikolic, you can't talk like that. Please choose the terms you wish to express your own opinion. It's really not appropriate and don't say it like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50384	Right, ma'am. And did you hear Mrs. Kolundjia say my consciousness was clouded?- I'm sorry. What is harder than these two words – to tell someone that he did what I did when I was little or to tell someone that his consciousness was clouded, just because he warns you that something in Serbia is not good. And, just because I'm culturally and democratically warning you and just because I haven't looked like you since October 5th, and only because Serbia doesn't fear what will happen when the Serbian Progressive Party wins!
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50385	Time. The word is Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50386	First of all, it would be correct not to put in my mouth what I didn't say, whether or not it's a matter of trying to know what you think and what you represent, it's your business. I didn't comment on that. What I want to comment on, again, does the truth, so I would like a very precise analysis to be made, so to see – whoever represented the war, made war. He who rules this country today has brought and led this country peacefully. He who defended Serbian territory lost all Serbian territory. What this government has been doing since 2000 is trying to establish peace, to overcome these severe traumas of the past, to find a way to connect people again, to live in peace again. The one who ran the policy that resulted in hundreds of thousands of refugees and those who took those refugees home, who gave them citizenship, who helped them integrate, who helped them get back to where they were being expelled, so let's see who destroyed it. Whoever glued posters to the streets and claimed that this house is also a safe house for Ratko Mladic, today wants someone to convince him that he is ready to open the house to the police and say – arrest Ratko Mladic and get him out of that house. The one who advocated a policy in which hatred was the cornerstone of political relations with all the countries in the environment, with our neighbours, neighbors, etc., is now ready to talk to Thaci. I don't mind, but if it's the one who fought the war (I'm an authorised representative and I have time to speak and my time isn't as limited as yours). So if we want to measure the policy that led to 24 pensions being stolen from the pensioners and those who came after that and all those pensions coming back, let's see who ruined it. Those who ran politics and advocated a policy in which 27 social contributions were owed to citizens and those who came and paid back those 27-month debts, to see who had done more damage. Those who held fictitious jobs and shared some wages for which at one point three kilos of bread could be bought even today, when all those who work have safe incomes and have an obligation to pay them pension contributions, to see what is more damage to this country. Those who allegedly held jobs, but for 20 years, the companies have not paid contributions, so now this power has been returning and paying contributions so that people can retire, let's measure who then destroyed Serbia and who has been destroying, and who is he who is trying to correct all the serious consequences of such a policy now. The man who called the minister in this house a name no man should ever speak to another man, does not deserve to comment on what he said at the level of decency, because I believe that a man who could address that name to the minister does not know what decency is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50387	Mr. Nikolic, I hope we're not in the time machine that you're about to meet. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50388	The time machine is complete with Mrs. Kolundji's exposure. I live for the future, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. First, an authorised representative can talk about a subject that's on the agenda. Indeed, if Tomislav Nikolic is on the agenda, then Mrs Kolundzija can speak indefinitely, if she has made any suggestions about me. If it isn't, then it better be with Ivica Dacic, and since he's not here, there's Deki, let's discuss what he's been up to for the past 20 years, or in the years when the SPS was in power and let him say it in your eyes. What's wrong with me? You, you were the image of this force that did all this. We were the "stack" who helped you for a year and a half and now I'm ashamed of it, but almost, life goes on, I don't mention it, but answer it, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. She attacked your life, she attacked your belief...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50389	Mr. Nikolic, even if that's the case, you can't be our spokesman. Don't point to that. It may be an honor to you, but we socialists would never allow it. Please, if you want a replica, stick to the contents of what is... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50390	I couldn't be your spokesman, because you won't listen to who your conscience is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50391	I'm not going to comment at all, because I would really offend you right now, and I don't want to. The word is Mrs Kolundžija and we are closing the circle of communication between Mrs Kolundžija – Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50392	President-in-Office, if the MP were to stick to the subject, of course, that I would argue on the subject, but since he who thinks that the topic is not important or perhaps thinks that the topic is too important, but that he is not up to it, then he is holding on to some other topics, he obliges me to vote on behalf of those people who will vote for this decision and who support the policy that is ultimately seen through this decision, to defend the position of these people. I cannot be called upon by someone to respect the Rules of Procedure by respecting the agenda, while the MP absolutely does not talk about what is the subject of the agenda and expects all the people behind this decision to be in some way in line with what he is saying and what has nothing to do with the agenda. The point is, the policy represented by the MP is the policy that pushed the country into the results I was talking about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50393	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50394	Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that falls into the eyes when it comes to this item of the agenda is a huge amount of ignorance that we could hear from Mrs. Kolundjia, as well as from this monument expert, who, with $75,000, pays the former American ambassador to promote his great knowledge of monuments in the United States. So today we have heard stories about how these amendments to the Rules of Procedure apply to some independent regulatory bodies. [[Applause]] Mrs. Kolundjia, neither is the ombudsman an independent regulatory body, in fact, here we go in turn, as far as the changes you have proposed in the new Article 237a apply. So, '...' an independent state body dealing with the protection of the rights of citizens and the control of the work of the state administration's body is the Protector of Citizens, and the Civilian Protector, Mrs Kolundžija, is not an independent regulatory body; 'the body responsible for the legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia', it is the Republic Public Defence, the Republic Public Defence, too, is not an independent regulatory body; 'as well as other bodies and organisations, enterprises and institutions entrusted with public authority'. First, this is also not independent regulatory bodies, and secondly, I don't understand why you didn't use the Syntagma of the Law on State Administration which calls one name bodies and organisations, i.e. enterprises and institutions entrusted with public authority – public authorities. Furthermore, "respecting the right to the availability of information of public importance and the protection of personal data", it is the Republic's Commissioner for Public Information, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, also not an independent regulatory body; "equity to citizens" therefore, protects citizens' equality; it is the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, Mrs. Petrusic, also, is not an independent regulatory body; "the audit of public funds"; therefore, it is the State Audit Authority, which is also not an independent regulatory body; "and the fight against corruption", I mean, the word itself says – the state body, of course, cannot be an independent regulatory body, it is the Anti-Corruption Agency. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, none of what you've suggested applies to independent regulatory bodies. It's just an introductory note so the citizens of Serbia can know what we're talking about today. Independent regulatory bodies have been established by public agencies by the Public Agency Act since 2005. Mrs. Kolundzija, neither is the Simeon Public Agency nor is the Republic Public Defence Public Agency, nor is the Anti-Corruption Agency within the meaning of the Public Agency Act since 2005. Therefore, you have not guessed at all which category of state institutions should apply these amendments to your Rules of Procedure. As far as your famous independent regulatory bodies are concerned, it's an import from the United States. In America, the first independent regulatory body was created in 1887, and it was the Federal Trade Commission. Since then, dozens and hundreds of independent regulatory bodies have emerged in the United States. If you take any textbook of US constitutional law and US administrative law, you will see that in the United States, there is a large intellectual and theoretical movement against independent regulatory bodies, because, as Mr. Aligrudic has well noted, independent regulatory bodies in the system of the government's organisation are something that could be called some kind of fourth headless function of state government, as some American theorists say, because neither are the legislative body. The assembly, nor are the classical executives, the government, nor are the courts. These are some bodies that have, on the one hand, quasi-legal, and on the other hand, quasi-judicial jurisdiction. Of course, as usual, many of what we did after 2000 were extremely uncritical of the institution of independent regulatory bodies. Today there are dozens in Serbia. I doubt that any civil servant, including ministers, knows exactly how many independent regulatory bodies there are, what these independent regulatory bodies are doing, what the salaries of the directors of public agencies are, it has already become a general place in all political debates. It is also one of the curiosities of the Republic of Serbia that any director of an independent regulatory agency has a far higher salary than the salary of the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, People's MPs, and so on. I will refer to one document for you who advocates the EU, Maltena, the Holy Scriptures, that is the European Commission's report on the state of affairs in certain areas of social life in Serbia, and when you take any report for 2008, 2009, 2010, and before that, you will see that exactly the greatest criticism when it comes to state institutions relating to the work of independent regulatory bodies, i.e. those so-called public agencies, for the following reason – is being spent, and the effects of the work are almost nothing. However, as I said, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure do not apply to independent regulatory bodies, concerns certain categories of state bodies whose reports are to be considered by the committee responsible, and then the National Assembly itself. Otherwise, I would also like to say that here, very often, the word "independent" is used here, so it is emphasized that Galactic is independent, that the Commissioner for Information is independent, that the Anti-Corruption Agency is independent, from which I could now, as a reasonable man, draw the conclusion that the National Assembly is dependent, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is dependent, that the ministries are dependent, that the courts are independent, and that only these bodies that are counted in the new Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure are independent. Now I would like to comment on how independent they really are. Last year, the Anti-Corruption Agency published a list of ruling coalition MPs in the AP Vojvodina Assembly in conflict of interest, because they simultaneously perform two, three, and some, for God's sake, six functions. Now I ask you, if the Anti-Corruption Agency is independent, professional, objective, impartial, if you are obliged to act on the findings of the Anti-Corruption Agency, how is it possible that more than a year of government in Serbia and government in the AP Vojvodina did nothing to act on the findings of the Anti-Corruption Agency?- I'm sorry. How is it possible that a large number of MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly remain in conflict of interest because they are also MPs of the province, while at the same time the presidents of individual duchy municipalities, presidents of parliaments, etc? This case of conflict of interest exists here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And here you have MPs who are also presidents of individual municipalities, or mayors. Then what does this amendment to the Rules of Procedure do if you have one, to God, independent agency, which, I repeat, is not an independent regulatory body, and you do not respect what the agency says? So, what do we need with the Anti-Corruption Agency? We are now in the field of double application of legal standards. One system of norms applies to ordinary citizens, to citizens who are not MPs of the ruling coalition, not the presidents of municipalities, are simply citizens. They are subject to provisions and laws governing the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Others, who are authorities, who are powerful, who have besides political and economic power, don't care what the Anti-Corruption Agency says. I'm sorry, it's not a European standard at all. It is not a civilization standard to apply the same legal rule in two different ways, depending on who it applies to, well, if applied to the MPs, then nobody can do anything because I am the government, and if applied to an ordinary man, then it can be applied because that man is not politically powerful and has no political influence, political authority and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia must apply to him. You've had the same case with a man who's the Guardian of Citizens. Several times, he pointed to major failures in the work of state authorities, and the government in Serbia disaved him and did not do what the Citizens' Protector said. Of course, I'm not talking about laughing at sending the Guardians to the Nobel Peace Prize. Take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, take the Law on the Protector of Citizens and find me a norm where it says the Protector of Citizens represents the Republic of Serbia in international relations and is authorized to attend the Nobel Peace Prizes. Instead of man doing his job, to really control the work of the government's authority, as it does in the description of jurisdiction in the Constitution and the Law on the Protector of Citizens, you send him to attend the award of Nobel Peace Prizes, and previously the same government in Serbia said he would not go to the Nobel Peace Prize, so that she would not object to a great country that is a friend of the Republic of Serbia, which is the People's Republic of China. What are the consequences if these Rules of Procedure are adopted? First, the National Assembly, whether it is satisfied or dissatisfied with the work of these bodies that are numbered in Article 237a, will have to accept their report and that is putting the Assembly before the final act. I can be as unhappy as I want with the work of the people who are officials and members of these organs, but I have to accept their report. Excuse me, well, what kind of democracy is that? I guess whenever there are at least two options: either to accept something or not to accept it. You have deleted from the Rules of Procedure, from Article 237, in indent 5, sentence – that the National Assembly may not accept the report and initiate the procedure for determining the responsibilities of officials in the state body, organisation or body. This means that the National Assembly will no longer be in a position not to accept the report. So what's the function of the report if we have to accept it? No, then the report shouldn't be filed. Then it is a formal obligation that is fulfilled in order, but, essentially, a report, a debate on the report and the vote on the report will have no implications, because the National Assembly by force of the Rules of Procedure will have to accept the report of these bodies, organisations and bodies referred to in Article 237a. Now, one nomotechnical remark that speaks of the fact that you've done these amendments to the Rules of Procedure in an extremely quick way. So, in the new Article 237a, in paragraph 5, you say this: 'The National Assembly, after the debate is concluded, decides on a proposal for a conclusion, namely a recommendation with measures to improve the situation in those areas, most of the votes of the MPs at the session at which most of the MPs are present. '"It's a formulation of the attitude of the 5th new member of the 237th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In doing so, you have not even taxed Rule 238, and it will remain in this amended Rules of Procedure, and its position 3. reads: 'The National Assembly, after the conclusion of the debate, draws a conclusion, or recommendation, to the majority of the votes of the Members of Parliament at the session at which most of the MPs are present. '"What does that mean? This means that you will have two legal norms that essentially mean the same thing and regulate the same situation. Instead of having already decided to change, or to add Article 237a, you had to intervene in Article 238. This is how we're going to have a new member of 237a. which in its position 5, in almost identical manner regulates the situation already regulated in Article 238(3). However, you have authorised the Legislative Committee to make up the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure, but it cannot be given the right to the Legislative Committee, without the Assembly having previously done so, to amend Article 238. You will have, one by one, two members of the Rules of Procedure who, in some parts of them, are more or less fundamentally, in fact, completely identical. What we could also hear, that is, that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not good. It rolled in 2006, it was working in 2007, it was working in 2008, it was working in 2009, now, all of a sudden in 2010 and, here, in early 2011. Who says the Constitution is wrong? The same ones who wrote the Constitution. I didn't write it. It was written by others, the same ones who asked for the Constitution to change today. The constitution was passed in 2006. In some of his provisions, he hasn't even come to life yet. Excuse me, how can we be a serious state that changes the Constitution after four years of its adoption without being able to fully apply all the provisions of that same Constitution? As soon as it's four years ago, some people grab their heads and say, "Do you know when it was done four years ago, five years ago, ten years ago?" Belgium has a Constitution since 1831, the Netherlands since 1815, the United States since 1787. Well, what do you think would happen to these states if every fourth or fifth year they changed the constitution as to what kind of hot head did that come to mind? It was good in 2006 that the National Assembly had 250 MPs. In 2010 and 2011, there should be 125, so 62 and a half, which is the next proportion? What is hiding and what is behind this intention to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Could it be Kim? Is it necessary to delete from the preamble to the Constitution that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia? Here is a statement from one who runs a dead race with you about who will be more committed to the EU – I think Serbia expects to face Kosovo's independence. It is a statement that was made just before the start of the campaign to collect signatures for the change of the Constitution. So are the MPs, or the National Assembly, now just a smoke screen to hide something that is much more important – that there are political forces in this country who are ready to question the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia in one part of its territory? As for the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Kolundzija, I apologize for speaking to you personally, but you are authorized in the name of the ruling coalition to talk about amending the Rules of Procedure, boasting as a power, and thereby calling on the new Rules of Procedure that you have adopted annually as we adopt 200 and 300 laws, respectively. I studied this comparative constitutional law a little bit, and I came to the data that, for example, the French Parliament annually passed between 60 and 70 laws, and the Parliament of the United Kingdom about the same. In Serbia alone, we have turned the National Assembly into a norm factory, in which laws stand, roughly, as some parts of a large factory. What are our laws? Our laws are such that the President of the Republic won't sign any of the laws, and that's where you violated the Rules of Procedure. At the first next session, the National Assembly had to re-discuss and decide on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. That didn't happen. Tomorrow we're going to have an incredible situation, and as far as this Rules of Procedure is concerned, which you brought in, and tomorrow you're going to break it. What's this about? Here, let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia hear – tomorrow, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs will ask parliamentary questions on the following topics: defining the policy of the Republic of Serbia towards the AP Kosovo and Metohija, and in the context of the report by Dick Marty, rapporteur of the Council of Europe, this is the SRS proposal, as well as business-problems in the management and transformation of public enterprises. If someone tells me what the connection is between Dick Marty's report and the problems in the work of public enterprises in Serbia, here, I will be very grateful. This is also a dramatic violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure are very clear. On the basis of Article 209, it is also stated in the introduction of this letter that the question of the current subject is answered. So, the noun is in the only theme. At the end of this memo is the next thing – ministers and other officials in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will answer parliamentary questions about these "tops". Now it's not one topic anymore, but it's topics, and I'd like to see, unfortunately, I'll have a chance to see tomorrow, what it's going to look like during the session of the National Assembly, where we're going to turn around and ask questions about trafficking in human organs and problems in the work of public enterprises. If a single EU assembly, in any civilized country in the world, works this way that you intend to work, then, indeed, we are not some special exception, but is not working. We'll be the only congregation to break its own Rules of Procedure and it breaks it day and day. And now you're telling us that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which are otherwise sloppy, you don't know for yourself what category of bodies these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are, so that we are supposed to be closer to the EU, and that the matter is completely final, in the light of these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, that there is actually no EU regulation that we would have to comply with our Rules of Procedure. What does that mean? That you work on a dictatorship, that you work on a phone call. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50395	Time. You mentioned two topics that are not directly related to today's topic, but are significant. In order to inform all of us, as well as the public, I would like to say that it is true that the President of Serbia has returned the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax to Redecision. During this session, there will be a re-determination of him. You also mentioned that the parliamentary group could submit a proposal on the subject. Article 211 of our Rules of Procedure regulates the position of the 2nd, if several draft parliamentary groups have been tabled, the President of the National Assembly sets out the schedule of topics, according to the time of arrival of the orderly proposal, which is the case and has already been in practice. Therefore, we cannot open the debate now. I just wanted to give you and you and the other MPs information about how we're going to respect the law and the Rules of Procedure. A replica compared to my explanation? Here you go. All you have to do is sign in. It's a replica of something that's just information, but please, let me hear what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50396	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, with all due respect to you as the president of the National Assembly and the humanities of the doctor, but you are wrong. You have the right to determine the order of topics on which MPs will ask questions, but you cannot make cumulation, to ask parliamentary questions on two topics that have nothing to do with each other in the same day. There is one principle right – first in time, stronger right. We submitted a proposal to ask parliamentary questions on December 20th. I guess we had a priority to first set up a session to ask questions about Dick Marty's report. LDP colleagues submitted their proposal on 4 February. So, more than a month after us. You, regardless of the time distance, have set a day on which MPs will ask questions on two subjects. That's not possible under the Rules of Procedure. And not only is it not possible by the Rules of Procedure, it is extremely illogical and it is extremely unreasonable. Not to say we're going to make a joke out of this assembly if we change questions about human organ trafficking and the work of public enterprises. I'm sorry, it has nothing to do with each other. It is a shame that the Serbian Parliament discusses Dick Marty's report more than a month after the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe did so. Excuse me, Hashim Thaci did not trade with the authorities of the Germans, the French and the English, but with the organs of the Serbs! And it's a shame to be working this way in the National Assembly! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50397	Dear colleague, I must remind you that we have shared an assessment that it is good to discuss this topic in February which you have proposed, due to very significant events in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, related, too, on this subject. So, the two of us had this deal and I understand you respect it. In this House was a practice, that if there are more topics in one month, that time is shared and that, please, is a practice that has already lived here. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50398	Madam President, I don't know how there was a misunderstanding on the basis of which the claims were made here about what this provision contains, since that is simply not true. The first doubt has been expressed about this – whether there is an independent state body or not. I call you to the Constitution, Article 138, where it is said that the Citizens' Protector is an 'independent state body'. At the same time, you've listed and claimed that I was wrong, arguing that this is about independent state bodies and independent regulatory bodies, and then it's also not true, because this is exactly about both the one and the other body that we mentioned here. So, the Agency is an independent regulatory body, and these are state authorities, and they really apply to each other. At the same time, you argued that in Article 237a, in accordance with the Act on the Report of Independent State Authorities dealing with the protection of citizens and the control of the work of the State Administration, this is about the Protector of Citizens, and that the continuation of the sentence refers to public defence. Again, I return you to the Constitution and the Law on the Ombudsman, where it is clearly stated that "The Protector of Citizens is an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, the body responsible for the legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other bodies and organisations, and businesses" etc. So this is all related to the Nautilus. Maybe it's just not clear enough, but it does refer to the Twin. The claim that the Council of the Republic of Serbia is a law-making factory may be true from the point of view of the old democracies that have the opportunity to adopt 50 or 60 laws annually. It should not be forgotten that Serbia is a country in transition, where unfortunately, unlike other countries that entered the transition in the 1990s, Serbia was in a completely different position in the 1990s and that the transition was too late, but unfortunately it is inevitable. And, in that sense, all the shouting that we're doing isn't going to help us much, because the job we have to do is really huge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50399	Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50400	Mrs. Kolundjia, what I said is still there. The protection of citizens is an 'independent state body' under the Constitution, but it's not an independent regulatory body. You said your new member of 237a refers to independent regulatory bodies. It doesn't apply! The citizen's protector is, well, try to just Semanticly interpret a member of the Constitution, if it's an organ, it can't be an independent regulatory body at the same time. Otherwise, everything in Serbia is an independent regulatory body. Then the Assembly is also an independent regulatory body. It's not! Independent regulatory bodies are your institutions to which the Law on Public Agencys and Points applies. It can't be everything that has a sign that it's independent, in your opinion, of being an independent regulatory body. It's not! The protection of citizens is an independent state body that has its powers prescribed by the Constitution and the Law on the Protector of Citizens. What is, too, and now you've given me good attention to, that I'm simply in one dilemma right now – is it just a report by the Protector of Citizens, which is submitted to the National Assembly under Article 237, or is it also about the reports of those institutions that the Citizens' Protector controls? Are we going to discuss the reports of the Republic Public Attorney's Office? We should. Are we going to consider reports from these other bodies and organizations, businesses and institutions entrusted with public authority? So, all of them are controlled by the Citizens' Protector, or are we just going to consider the citizens' protector's own report? From the style of Article 237, it follows that we will consider the report not only of the Citizens' Protector, who, I repeat again, is not an independent regulatory body, but that we will consider the reports of all those institutions whose work is controlled by the Citizens' Protector. Therefore, both the Republic of Public Defence and public undertakings, i.e. institutions entrusted with public authority. What also exists is that the National Assembly on all these reports, although we still don't know what kind of reports the National Assembly is going to decide, will be able to make only one decision - to accept the report. The Rules of Procedure now erases the possibility that the National Assembly refuses to accept the report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50401	Time. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50402	Of course, there is no provision that obliges the National Assembly to accept anything, well, no report. In that sense, I do not see that there is any possibility that in the Rules of Procedure this remains unclear. I don't think that's unclear. We just removed one provision that introduced automation into, among other things, that the report was not accepted and that it automatically meant the launch of a responsibility issue. If I made a lapus, so I was just talking about independent regulatory bodies, then I'm really sorry. So I can't remember if I was just talking about it. We're talking about a very defined one here, so it's clear which independent state authorities and bodies apply these provisions to. Of course it doesn't refer to reports of those controlled by the Manchester. If this provision does not make it clear, then I hope there is some kind of amendment that will explain it. Therefore, we agreed to this provision, among other things, and with Simeon. If it's unclear from a provision like this whether it means we're going to consider the reports of those he controls, then this provision doesn't have to imply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50403	I thank you, but I really think it would already be an academic debate, not a part of the agenda. We are moving on to the participation of MPs according to the application for a word in a single search on the draft decision referred to in item 5 of the agenda. I give my word to MP Djordj Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50404	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, first of all, I would like to say, at the very beginning, what the SPS-JS Member of Parliament, among other things, has said, will support the proposed amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, because we consider it extremely important to regulate the Republic of Parliament's relationship with independent state bodies, i.e. to remove all the ambiguities, all of those misunderstandings, when it comes to a report that provides independent regulatory bodies to the Republic of Parliament. It should be kept in mind and time, since it is the legal obligation of independent regulatory bodies to submit their reports in the first quarter of the current year. What I'm also trying to say is that the previous Rules of Procedure did not have established procedures when it comes to considering these reports. The new Rules of Procedure on Labour, adopted in July 2010, provides for procedures for reviewing the report of an independent regulatory body, but of course the intention was not political pressure or any possibility of abuse or the launch of a procedure to replace one of the independent controllers. It is simple that the law establishing the procedure lays down the procedures on which the issue of responsibility of independent regulatory bodies is raised. Of course, independent regulatory bodies dealing with the protection of citizens' rights should be independent of the authorities whose work is controlled. The basic function of independent bodies, such as, among other things, is said today several times by the control of the government and we are convinced that no one had any intention, nor has anyone wanted to dissuade even the moment we adopted a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, nor is today when we consider and discuss amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. So, on the one hand, it must and should ensure independence and independence in the work of independent state bodies, but, on the other hand, there must also be the responsibility of independent state authorities for what they do and do, because this responsibility today in Serbia should have anyone who performs public office. We would like to express our satisfaction that today we are talking about the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, which is the result of compromises, the result of consultations and talks involving representatives of independent regulatory bodies. What exactly does this proposal contain? Therefore, as has been said several times today, a provision is deleted which provides that, when it comes to the report, the committee responsible for the report may propose to the National Assembly not to accept the report and to initiate the responsibility of officials in the state body, organisation, or body, and in spite of the above mentioned solution, a new member has been added, saying that the above reports are being discussed by the committee, the existing report to the Assembly, with a proposal for conclusions, or recommendations with measures to improve the situation in those areas, and is referred to by the National Assembly for consideration, the National Assembly is considering the reports and, at the end of the debate, draws a conclusion, a recommendation with measures to improve the situation in those areas. We are convinced that the conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can only further strengthen these recommendations. What is essential is several important messages to be sent and which will be sent through the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. The first is, support to independent state bodies and it has not been questioned at any time when it comes to the Republic Parliament. The second is, removing any doubt of different interpretations. What is third, and what is also important, is that there must be a responsibility of independent regulatory bodies, in the realisation of the common objective of both the Republic of Parliament and independent state bodies, which is to protect citizens' rights and, of course, the legitimate work of state authorities. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50405	Five minutes and five seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50406	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Government, with so far an unprecedented determination and uncontested authority, has been convincing citizens of Serbia for almost three years that we are leaders in Europe at the speed of implementing reforms. A similar message comes from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that hundreds of laws are passed here, which, unfortunately, mean nothing. This debate today best shows the senselessness of all this that is happening in the National Assembly, because this assembly of the National Assembly has spent half of its mandate, lost half the time we spent in this room correcting the mistakes it itself made, making new amendments and additions to laws that were passed only a few months ago. So today we are discussing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, which I remind you, adopted only six months ago. Dear colleagues, this is not a menu to change every day, but a Rules of Procedure that we should act on, which determines our rights, our obligations, and the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, but also the bodies we are discussing today. Mrs. Comic, you weren't here earlier, but the president said the Value Added Tax Act would be on the agenda during this session. Please let us know if it's in the lunch break from 2:00 to 3:00 p.m. or if it's tonight. Look at the stenogram of what the president just said. Maybe it's some new amendment to the Rules of Procedure, so we can put a law like that in the course of the session. I can't believe it was just a lapus. Next Wednesday we begin a regular session of the Assembly and on the agenda are the latest amendments and additions to the laws adopted only a few months ago. This best shows the first item of the agenda, related to the Law on Planning and Construction. We have just heard that if mistakes are made, they need to be corrected, that this is in line with European practice. I don't think that's gonna be it, exactly, right? However, in the light of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure, you wrote that there is no obligation to bring the Rules of Procedure in line, as an internal act of the National Assembly, with EU rules. And that's perfectly fine, but it's about changing a scandalous provision that you yourself made possible in July 2010 to resolve the functions of the heads of state control bodies and authorities, unless we like their annual reports. This Article 237. The Rules of Procedure provided for the possibility to initiate a procedure for the resolution of officials in state bodies, organisations and bodies, and, among other things, that is to apply to the Guardians of Citizens, to the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter, to the Anti-Corruption Agency, the State Audit Authority and a series of other bodies and bodies. The DSS pointed to the unsustainability of this provision in time, and we do not find it unusual that it is not supported when the debate on the Rules of Procedure was held in July of the month, but why did you not listen to the remarks that Mr Jankovic and Mr Sabic both made at the time? It seems that it's not enough that the government controls these organs and these bodies through the budget, through the resources it assigns them, the working conditions, through the space in which they should sit and work, it's also necessary to limit their functioning in this way. Nothing worth it to you, what we pointed to in July and you then voted for such a radical solution, we didn't get an answer why, we didn't get the answer your intentions were then. I am sure that this is not how the control function of parliament is carried out, and this is best shown today. I can't explain it any other way, but that you tried to intimidate and control people who do their job, if that's what the need is for, and if in their reports they attack you for what you did and that it doesn't comply with the law. Only after the European Commission's observation and the European Parliament's Resolution, in which it is clear that there is a problem with the government's relationship with independent control institutions, you are lighting a red light and today you realize that it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure and regulate it in the intended manner. It is only now that you have realized, in your argument, that it is necessary to remove doubts about the possibility of violating the Constitution, or the law of the established position of independent state bodies. It's really amazing that insufferable lightness with which, without blushing with shame, you pour ashes after only a few months. The simple question is whether some people here think only between two feedings or whether it is our obligation, all of us sitting in parliament, to do everything to make it better for citizens and this society, and this country tomorrow when we are not in this Parliament, and when some other people are sitting in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have once again shown that democracy is a tower of sand, which can collapse when it suits the will of the ruling majority. And it's really time for you to rest us from your concern and your kindness. These days, the competition for getting kicked out of the government is very severe, the nominations are under way, but only now, only this time and never again, is being conducted by Mr Tadic, and the outcast from the National Assembly will have the opportunity to implement the people. How, in what way, we'll see in the next few months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50407	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50408	Mrs. Komic, on today, around this time in 1991 in Kragujevac, Savic-Šumadia, began with the name of the SRS and one of the most important elements of the SRS programme is the struggle for parliamentaryism. We have proved these 20 years to seek political life in parliament, to make parliament the most important institution of the political system of the Republic of Serbia. Today, I must conclude that the country and the people where the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are the most important legal act. In Serbia, no one is bound by the Constitution or by the laws anymore, but the Rules of Procedure is something to be applied, and around the Rules of Procedure everyone discusses, everyone interprets it, well, even the services interpret it. You see, and when something is completely clear in practice, it becomes so confusing that there is a need for change. That is how the need arises for this last Rules of Procedure, adopted in accordance with the new Constitution and the new Law on the National Assembly, to change after how many months. That's when you boasted about how you regulated the Rules of Procedure, and now we see that there are some problems. Problems exist depending on how facts are interpreted and what is used as evidence of some fact. Now I have to tell you that in presenting these facts, lies are used or otherwise interpreted to buy time or give meaning to something that really doesn't matter. Since we in the SRS have agreed not to repeat our discussions, I will now inform the citizens what it looks like in practice. Last year was the State Audit Institute report on the 2008 final budget account. In accordance with the Law on the State Auditing Institution and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee made its report with a proposal to open a debate in the National Assembly on such a report, because it is a legal obligation. That report didn't come to this hall, to the plenary session and to the debate, because, first of all, you didn't apply for it to be an emergency procedure, well, then, an extraordinary, regular session, and that report has never been discussed here. However, it did not bother the Ministry of Finance that through an organisation reportedly, abroad, which monitors the stability and reliability of public finances, where the two foreigners and the two ladies from our country are not even important names, they are going to produce a report that will, in turn, parise the State Auditing Institutions. And, behold, they found in their report that the National Assembly was considering the State Auditing Institution Report, within one point when questions were raised to government representatives. There, you see the Westerners interpret the regulations. There was a speech here, one, half an hour about that report, and it solved the problem. Now we have a different situation, which is now a new variant of the same task, so since 16 December of last year before the Finance Committee, there is a report by the State Auditing Institution on the 2009 Final Budget Account. And then a new problem arises, whether it's a report that was filed on a bill or on a bill, so there's always a little bit of a catch to avoid something. Why is it avoided, that simply, the Assembly does not meet its constitution and the law of the prescribed obligation, and then goes with really beautiful stories, broad stories of humanism, of renaissance, of the bright future, the people have the right to expect, and so on and so forth, let the story go, the story of the people to avoid the essence. Here, we can't finish this session of the Finance Committee because some don't want to come. Well done with exceptions, there are who come, but there are some who don't come. We'll have a session in a few days and we still can't make a report. I don't know why, honestly. When we make that report and if we make it and send it to the National Assembly, no one can be sure it will be on the agenda. There is talk of the owners of the mandate that they are MPs, so these MPs should be freed, here, free the MPs of the DS of those disciplines that they have within the DS, free the people to tell everything they have, what is in their heart, what is expected of them, what is required of them. Do not hold them hostage, set an example of how MPs are released. What really startled me in Article 2. A proposal for this decision, what is your problem with writing the Protector of Citizens, when the Constitution so defines that authority, and what is your problem with writing the State Auditing Institution, when that name is from the Constitution and it cannot be changed by law. As far as I'm concerned, it wouldn't be a problem if you'd written the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Commissioner for Equality or the Commissioner for Free Access of Information of Public Matter, there wouldn't be any problem. I don't want to open up a dilemma about what their report means, but I can see that you've forgotten that there's some kind of logical continent -- 237th and 2338th, so if 237a falls from the sky with this kind of formulation, then there's no such legal-technical order that can remove it. We've told you in advance the fact that you're going to get to 126 somehow, so you're going to vote everything, as you all voted 126. I got the impression that the only evidence for normal and European is 126 at that point, and after two months, we're changing European standards again, and now it's again the same 126 European standards, the world standard, the standard for normal. As here when you have something against the SRS, you attack Ivica Dacic, Slobodan Milosevic or Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I don't mind, attack them till they're willing. Feel free to attack them. If you can't say their name, name of the party, say SRS, say Vojislav Seselj, no problem at all. Just don't underestimate the citizens, you know exactly who the chronology is when it's where it's been, what it's been doing, who's burned down the assembly, etc. You know that. Who fired from work, who made the privatisation, why citizens live so hard, etc. Whose tracks are these? I don't mind, you're growing popular. The way you fire someone from work, that's how your popularity grows! As you deny some social giving, that's how your popularity grows. There's no problem. Just you guys get involved with those stories about growing popularity! Very strange things have been happening, you know, ever since this kind of democracy took place. You see, a few years ago, it was the SRJ thing to the community or, it doesn't matter what year, the man gets kicked out of the federal administration and gives him 40 pay. They pay him off so he doesn't work in the state service anymore; whether he was too much, whether he was so bad, I have no idea, but they pay him off just so he won't be in the state service anymore – it's been two years, he comes back and becomes defence minister. Now, when you look at some conflict of interest, a few days ago you had a lady who also received severance, so she got a job in the state service, e, that's a conflict of interest, you need to conduct a procedure against her. You know, take care when you brag a lot. Last night, one boasted, when, today, there are no 370-380 tons of oil in the warehouse. Take a little care when you brag, aman, people, at least let that praise last for two days. Somehow, reality will deny you in three hours. It's no big deal, you can do anything here, and you can throw it out and punish it, and you can say it's not like that, and you can start shooting some new contributions here, and you can make polls, you can do anything, it's nothing to argue with anyone, but try a little bit and change this reality. You change it a little bit, so you say, well, this is the move that we've changed, you see, after two months, the results are starting to get better. You remember last year, the whole nation screams - no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, One says -- how come, here, I just called from my neighborhood, there, people, say they don't know what to do with milk, satisfied, ransom price, etc. When, a month and a half ago, he started moaning for milk here. Let's have some of your sentences hold up some checks, at least for a little while, so that at least we can all act like you cheated on us. This kind of fraud that you offer insults dignity and simply everyone has to report to the public, although it is well known to the citizens. Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for not giving me a warning. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50409	You didn't deserve it, you didn't earn it, that's why you don't have it. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has a word after him, MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50410	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, thank you for warning those to whom you should warn in the elections, so there is no need to be warned by anyone in this room. The debate has opened some very interesting topics and issues that can indeed make an immeasurable contribution to the development of political theories in Serbia and the new doctrine of political thought. We attended the discussion of a political party that has the exact opposite of understanding what the majority of parliament is, depending on whether it is in power or in opposition, but also depending on what the 'Colubare leadership' is. The higher the Kolubare Leadership, the contrary to understanding what the majority of parliament is. And, it is good that the subsequent opposition mind of these political parties is good, and it is good that whenever discussions about independent regulatory bodies begin to ask the question of who Boris Tadic will drive out of the government and who will the people drive out of parliament, but it would be good to ask who Miljko Radisavljevic will call for an interview. And I see they're not in the O.R., so they ran. Thank you, Gjury Mutavov, for introducing the Institute of the Protected Witness, so I see that the increased order is at the office of Miljko Radisavljevic. On the other hand, some are invited to a congregation restaurant when speaking here about this part of the agenda. I prefer another room in this building than the congregation restaurant. In this high house there is a congregation library; so, bravo, correct answer, five points, invest 'quisca' next time. In that library, Serbian citizens, but also interested MPs, can check what is who and how they spoke about independent regulatory bodies. Here's a book that's the best time machine, the best mosaic of time and the best witness about all of us, those are stenographic notes from the assembly session! Some when they were in power and had opportunities to form independent regulatory bodies in this country, when they had opportunities to form a Anti-Corruption Agency, did not think to do so. They invented corruption, implemented corruption in Serbia's political life. They saw corruption as the most profitable activity in Serbia. They are those who complain today over the fate of the lit assembly, although they know that the Serbian Parliament burned down the State Security Service that inside found the forged sack of ballots with a circled Slobodan Milosevic before the second round of elections. Those who are the loudest moaning of Serbia's fate today were the loudest to complain when the Serbian Parliament decided to make the laws and decisions formed by independent regulatory bodies, which for the first time in Serbia's recent history of parliamentary life were asked to make a budget report and to form an auditor, that the auditor is doing his job. That auditor was their worst nightmare during their conduct. Today, of course, they understand the benefits of these independent regulatory bodies. It is good that they have spoken, it is good that they have converted, that they are now defending independent institutions of the state of the Republic of Serbia. The truth is, I still have books and stenograms here, and notes from various meetings of the Assembly. And, indeed, when you read, without intending to violate the Rules of Procedure, and to talk about the subject, and when you talk about what history of Serbia looked like, so if you would just delete the year here now and you didn't read what year this is going on, you would see, Serbian citizens, if the political debate in Serbia hadn't moved much. Here, let's say, what the debate of 1908 looks like, says – we from the Radical Party, for the sake of the Radical Party at the time, think it is the best radical opposition and that the radical opposition will be able to overcome the wishes of Serbia's citizens in reality. And then Stojan Ribarac said, some independent bodies were also debated, and the radical opposition had no more than to ask for the principles to be abolished, the council to be abolished, the gendarmes to be abolished, in addition to everything else, all services and all agencies formed by the Kingdom of Serbia. We often have a situation that in this assembly many ask to abolish many agencies, and they never say whether they mean the Anti-Corruption Agency. On the other hand, we have some who would give all of us advice on what we should do, how we should behave, who we should look up to, so they tell us – you never accepted any opposition party initiative. Take a look at these minutes from the assembly sessions and see only the number of amendments, opposition amendments that have been accepted and you will see that you are wrong. Look, when we talk about the meetings of the Assembly, when we talk about what we've done together, we've tried to agree, how many times we've called for co-operation, how many times you didn't want to cooperate. Just remember what the assembly sessions looked like in that old building, until we changed the Rules of Procedure. We haven't been able to move around for days from the debate about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Today, when we have a parliament that works quickly and efficiently, which makes laws, we have never been able to say in this House that maybe we haven't done something right, maybe we did something fast, let's fix a mistake, but never this Parliament has dealt with itself and has never dealt with this Parliament by amending the laws. This parliament is engaged in serious parliamentary work. All those who want to degrade our effect in public, first of all, degrade themselves and talk about themselves. I want to tell you that I don't think that the ruling majority can do anything or who thinks in the DS. The time when the ruling majority could do anything, from the organization, welcome the Legion to the interior minister's office, well, to the custody of Radovan Karadzic, without talking about that long ago time that will never come back, when she could really do anything, and to decide on life and death in this country. That time of the ruling majority is ancient history. By passing such laws, by implementing such laws into the lives of Serbian citizens, by implementing these laws, by passing laws that are not dead letters on paper, but by passing laws that live among citizens, we show that such a time will never return. And what some say "will clear you people", I am not afraid to stand on the line and go to the elections and I am aware of the difficulties in which Serbia is, as is aware of each member of the DS, but if someone thinks they can do everything that happened to us in the 1990s for free, if someone thinks that 130m euros from "Colubara" won't pay, it has a price and that price is paid by citizens of Serbia today. And if anyone thinks this job can be better, more successful, smarter, be it or regular, maybe even extraordinary parliamentary elections, I'm absolutely sure regular, let them run their ideas in these elections, let them stand on the line and let them win, nothing easier than that, let them manage this country, but not to rule, because the time of ruling Serbia is long past, Serbia is managed today. As a good man, a Serbian citizen, always threatens the dangers of a bad man, so the good law always threatens the threat of bad legislators. I am absolutely convinced that these changes to the Rules of Procedure will be done in accordance with and the spirit of good legislators and that they will witness the time in which they were created, that there will be an expression of the conditions they have produced, but that, first of all, the laws that we bring today will be our best mirror in the future, that we will be able to stand calmly and look into the eyes of a clean conscience, unburdened by any discipline and that I will never, as some of my friends and colleagues here, bend my head when someone reads these stenographic notes, but I will be able to stand behind every word I have said here and what the DS voted for in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50411	Nine minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, and after that, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after such an inspired speech of full co-evaluation, with many marketing statements, it is very difficult to go back to the subject, but unlike the fellow who spoke here, I will still show that I respect the procedure and respect the Rules of Procedure, which is, in the end, today and the topic of the agenda. I am very pleased with the subject of the Rules of Procedure that we are discussing here today, for a number of reasons: firstly, because we as representatives of the opposition will be able to point out once again its lack of capacity; secondly, because the representatives of the ruling coalition have seen very quickly how this is not the expression of the democratic tendency that is being pursued here on a daily basis; thirdly, what is perhaps most important is because of the changes that are proposed in this decision on amending the Rules of Procedure, which only partially eliminate shortcomings when it comes to independent bodies. I am not the least pleased by the fact that these amendments of the Rules of Procedure are being approached by the European Commission alone. That's what today is about when we talk about the Rules of Procedure. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure correct one mistake, which, that awareness and knowledge of how democracy in one country, especially in a country without excessive parliamentary experience, should appear and should develop, should not be done or done. If the opposition were to be respected today, if for no other reason, because of the fact that without it parliamentary democracy in Serbia would not exist today, that it would not be restricted and deprived of the basic rights of speech in the Serbian Parliament, we would probably now end the debate very quickly on these amendments of the Rules of Procedure and I hope that it would not last as long as it is now, but in these circumstances it is impossible. I remind you that there were ruling majoritys before, that there had been some opposition before, but that relations between the authorities and the opposition were significantly different. Much more debated, much more conversation, which formally, which informally. Simply, there was a consensus on the most important state issues, not just once, but whenever these issues were on the agenda. The opposition had the opportunity to contribute to the appearance and creation of certain laws, but today there is nothing. Simply, a rule was established that was unwritten, which represented a real example of how the opposition in one country was respected. It was a rule that said that the main assembly committees were representatives of the opposition, the strongest opposition parties in this parliament. I remind you that at the head of the Administrative Committee, the head of the Defence and Security Committee has always been a representative of the opposition. What's going on with that rule today? This rule has disappeared today, it is completely nonexistent, it has, in the end, been devalued to the extent that the ruling majority, in order to achieve the right power in the functioning of this parliament, has gone so far as to even make a decision that has a majority in each committee, so that it can re-vote the opposition itself and thus dissipate the work of each assembly committee. It's not just the opposition whose work is very much in control of power, and it's not just the opposition where the government gets in the way of its work. In this package, unfortunately, there are independent bodies, what we're talking about here today. As much as their work has been devalued, the best way to show is to have a relationship with the Anti-Corruption Agency. The Anti-Corruption Agency is forced to apply the law voted in this assembly, which legalises conflict of interest, which legalises conflict of interest. I remind you that conflict of interest and its tolerance, in this form as we have today, is the foundation of corruption itself. Then it should not surprise the situation we currently have in the country, which is that corruption is more than a widespread phenomenon, that, despite the ghastly pawning, it is a declarative push to deal with corruption, Serbia remains on European soil and bottom, when it comes to the spread of corruption itself. Based on the government's relationship with the Anti-Corruption Agency, we can make it quite clear that the relationship with corruption itself is a reflection. The government is, by doing what it does with its inaction, in fact in this country it encourages. Should I mention double functions, should I mention how most are achieved in the Assembly, should I mention the blackmailing capacity of various ministers within the government? Isn't all this a corrupt operation? Now let's see what the situation is with other independent bodies. For example, I will take the State Auditing Institution as a body that has tried, too, to bring order into the previously uncontrollable area of public accounts. And what happens when the report matured, when it was to be discussed in this House? Have we ever discussed this report, why did the ruling coalition not have the courage to put that item on the agenda for discussion and why we never discussed it? In this way, the ruling coalition has shown its relationship with the independent body itself, which should primarily take care of the way the state's money is being spent. Let's see, maybe I'm wrong, what's the situation with the Competition Protection Commission. Did she have any success when it came to independent work? Once, it only happened that the Competition Protection Commission showed that it was operating independently, i.e. on the moment that it declared one trade chain for a chain that has a dominant position in society itself. What happened after that? The minister who was in charge of that area, for that resort, showed, rather, that it wasn't true. The rules of the Commission itself were initiated by the Government, meaning change, and in the end there was only a change in the composition of the Commission. Why am I saying all this? Because independent bodies, their opinions, recommendations, solutions should nevertheless have some influence on those they refer to, not to devalue their influence, and thus devising their existence. So it would be better if today were on the agenda of the Assembly itself, in addition to these changes that we are discussing today, and something which would be qualitatively relevant to the very work of the opposition, to increasing its rights within the Parliament itself, but these changes are not here today. I believe that as representatives of the opposition we only have left to resort to certain pressure measures, because the pressure is the only thing the government understands and that's the only thing it reacts to, if nothing, that at least at the moment when we know that relations within the ruling coalition are quite segregated and that it itself is as unstable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50413	Nine minutes and ten seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50414	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, when it comes to amending the Rules of Procedure, the whole Rules of Procedure may in some sense be a subject. We are not running away from the debate and on the Rules of Procedure as a subject, in a broad sense of the word, of what the proposal for this decision is. The fact is that by adopting the new Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly of the Assembly was obliged to bring in a new Rules of Procedure, it is true that we wanted to do it with the opposition, that some parts of the opposition did not even want to participate, some participated, some even gave amendments, some of the amendments were accepted, and thus the opposition took part in the drafting and adoption of this Rules of Procedure at different levels. But now to object that this Rules of Procedure has denied the right to the MPs, first of all, the opposition and that the opposition was in a better position in some earlier period, then we should talk about what the facts are. It is true that the ruling coalition traded with the opposition, so that the opposition would allow the ruling coalition to work in line with the obligation of the Assembly. It is true that the deal was called between the opposition, when the opposition decided to block parliament's work, so when it joined the deal, the fact was that corruption was basically the basis of the deal. If that is true and the rules are now clearly established, therefore, the rights of the opposition do not go to the point where it can disable Parliament's work, the rights of the opposition go to the border where parliament can achieve its basic function, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the opposition has enough space to influence what is done in parliament. And that is the measure that the rules of procedure can be established so that, on the one hand, it does not fully devalue an institution such as parliament, and, on the other hand, basically what mutual relations between authorities and the opposition would not create corruption. Speaking of corruption, there's something else I want to say. The fact that Serbia is seen as a country of high corruption is correct and I think at least they have the right to remind us of those who, I believe, will, very quickly, right now, be responsible for the most corrupt affairs Serbia has ever seen. I expect that the competent state authorities will end things and that Kolubara, which is now a synonym for the huge corruption situation, will not be the only corrupt affair that will be exposed to the end and I expect at the same time, not only that the competent state authorities will determine the responsibility of all those who have led the institutions and who have stopped the processes since 2004, based on which corruption and the responsibility of those responsible for it would be determined. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50415	National MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50416	Article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I doubted whether I was looking for a replica as head of the parliamentary group in relation to the previous exposure, however, I think a injured member of 107th has been injured and Parliament's dignity has been injured. When saying something ugly about parliament and colleagues, it does not even matter if it is this call or earlier, the claim that communication between parliamentary groups, especially in relation to the government – the opposition, which is quite normal in parliament, has elements of corruption within it, because regardless of what the meeting refers to, is a very ugly thing. What promotes corruption in the system or in parliament, and I end the exhibition that will not be longer than this, is exactly what is happening in this assembly, but not in communication between parliamentary groups, but by allowing political transfers that are happening here and by laying down without any further cover or story to end a certain mechanism of protection that exists in the Constitution by breaking the Constitution itself when it comes to, for example, those famous 'Blanko legacy'. So, this is a possible element for talking about corruption, and mentioning corruption in the context of dialogue in order to function in a period of time in which, where fortunately, corruption is achieved today, is completely upside down and wrong. I don't think such words in this house should be used for that kind of activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50417	You, of course, have the right to an attitude that and in what context may mention corruption, but it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Corruption is a subject used by members of all parliamentary groups, and during the debate, no one mentioned it in an offensive way, so there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I understand the ingratitude, but then I ask you to look for a replica, not to abuse the Rules of Procedure. It cannot be considered a democratic atmosphere that it is only the right of the opposition to speak about corruption and that the context of corruption in the event of a change of mandate is allowed for speech, and the subject and context of which is spoken by a member or a member of the ruling majority when the opposition is not allowed. Either we're talking about corruption or we're not talking about corruption. Right on line, MP Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50418	Dear colleagues of the Kolundji, I highly respect you as head of a large parliamentary group, but in your performance, I expected that seriousness would overcome anxiety because of facts and truths that were primarily addressed to the ruling coalition, and in terms of how relations between authorities and opposition today look. I also believe that I have to respond to what you said, and it is specifically about the opposition not wanting to participate in all those committees, or in proposals sent by the ruling coalition. Of course, the opposition does not want to participate because your proposals go in context – take it or leave it. That's the only thing you might be able to get a positive answer from one of the party's calls, which is fat in the government itself, at least by what it does in parliament itself. And what the relations between the authorities and the opposition look like today is best shown by the fact that, according to the amendment, the opposition has the right to discuss only two minutes, what the proposal for a merger of discussions looks like when, for example, it was a concrete 11 or 17 example of the bill, we have one time to discuss, and then there is an expression of what should not be expressed in any parliament, and that is, the quality of the debate within parliament itself. In this way, by pooling discussions with various emergency proposals in the process, you directly influence the quality of the debate within the Parliament itself and it is not disputed, I hope that you will not argue with me, because it is more than expressed through the very fact that the speed of the laws in this Parliament is being adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50419	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50420	Mrs. Komic, you have committed a grave violation of the Rules of Procedure and I point to that on the basis of Article 103. Article 107(2) has been injured. Mrs. Kolundjia has committed a scandal in the National Assembly, accusing the entire opposition of co-operating with power by corrupting itself. And, since I belong to a political party who so does not cooperate with anyone, please, when you haven't already done it while she's talking, that you are now asking Mrs. Kolundji to immediately tell which political parties she meant, what cases, what kind of corruption, money, as she said herself, when and what political party was obstructing the work, and then the money was overcome the problem of obstruction, so that party allowed those in power to work?- I'm sorry. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been drastically hurt and that in the eyes of the public it must not remain the story that we are all corrupt, we of the opposition, by taking money and by taking power, by giving that money. This is where 250 MPs were hatched, including Mrs. Kolundji herself. I don't think we should continue the session until we discuss it, until we point out exactly who it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50421	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You did not specify an identical member, as well as the MP Milos Aligrudic, but it is not far. The Rules of Procedure shall be without prejudice to any of their provisions. I repeat that I understand disdain, but the Rules of Procedure do not distinguish members of the opposition or members of the ruling majority. If it is allowed and desirable to talk about corruption, then it is allowed and desirable to talk about corruption, because it is the subject of our society. If any member of the Parliament is to explain the cause, root or example of corruption, it is at the disposal of all other MPs to disprove this position, but I ask that we do not abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are no MPs of the opposition or the ruling majority, and as legitimate as MPs of the opposition point to examples of corruption, regardless of whether there are examples of legislative, executive, judicial, any government and any sectoral policy, this is also the right of MPs who make up the ruling majority at the moment. These two things don't have to be mixed. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50422	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I can agree with the finding that the National Assembly often has little time to discuss the laws, because by bringing together discussions on some laws, because Serbia is late in transition, there remains little space, but that space is equal for both the government and the opposition, and in that sense I can also complain, and I fully consider it justified every time the opposition, because of the fact that the debate is being joined, considers that there is too little time to discuss a topic and I will not argue about it. But when I said that basically what was gently called a deal was corruption, and then someone answered and said, money, then probably knows exactly what it was about. I didn't mention the money. Corruption is if certain different speculations and trades are devalued by one institution being unable to do one part because the other part will not allow it, and the rules of procedure are not such that they can prevent it. Then it appears basically what the deal or dialogue is, or whatever it wants to be called, corruption. Being recognized, so he probably remembered where he was at the time, that's not what I said, and I don't need to justify myself or explain it to anyone. Whoever recognizes him in what way, let him explain why he recognized himself. One more thing. Maybe it's an ugly word and a finding when you say it wasn't always, of course, sometimes it was, a deal, but sometimes it was, really, based on that corruption, but unfortunately, it's true. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50423	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50424	I think you're still allowing Mrs. Kolundjia to harshly insult the opposition's MPs. He talks to me exclusively on a personal basis. I don't mind that. I see that long opposition MPs don't speak personally. He's talking to me personally. It's possible, here, I'm talking to the MPs here, whether it's said to be "money" or "houses," "haves." Maybe I didn't hear. I don't know how else he could be a corrupt MP, except for someone giving him money. Please, Mrs. Comic, you say you approve of the debate on corruption. I approve of her, too. In this debate you should only say – who and when he gave, who and when he took, how did corruption happen?- I'm sorry. When the opposition starts talking about corruption, stop us if we don't speak specifically, and the representative of the government, who says that we eat out of the hands of the authorities and that whenever we break down, or, in most cases, it's enough to just offer us something on the dot, so we'll interrupt, you didn't even warn and say -- Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm sorry, what are you talking about, when it was, which political party, which is the MP, when, specifically, for which part of the agenda, when did the obstruction that you were doing stop?- I'm sorry. It really doesn't make sense. All of us in the opposition feel as if we're being silly here. On the street, I think the dumbest feeling is the ones who recognize themselves here. I didn't recognize myself at all, but it's hard for me to be stopped on the street and said, "How much did Hope Kolundji give you when you used to speak ill of those in power?" Please stop this. Mrs. Kolundji deserves a heavy warning about this. I'm not asking you to take away her word, because it's my pleasure when she speaks, she's just going over to our side. But I ask you to keep this kind of conduct unpunished by the representatives of the government, so it's a shame – keep quiet there whenever you should have been corrupt!
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50425	Two minutes. Thank you. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, has a word, a representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50426	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, is not the job of any MP here to conduct an investigation, but what is the job of every MP to make an effort to raise this institution to the level at which it should and must be, in order to be trusted by its citizens, but in order for it to be able to function at the same time. The moment clear rules are established, in which there are no exceptions, the place for corruption ceases at that moment. I deeply believe that from the moment we adopted the new Rules of Procedure and when we laid down very clear rules, the relationship in this House has never been and can never be based on corruption, in terms of the normal work of this institution. Could an individual be someone who's corrupt or someone who corrupts, I don't think it's the job of any of us here to determine.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50427	The word is by MP Sreto Peric, followed by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50428	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the state of Serbia hadn't gone deep into corruption, we wouldn't even have these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly today. But, Mrs. Kolundjia, it's not the only Colubara affair. Do you remember how much sugar it is, how much cement was sold at three or slightly more euros?- I'm sorry. Do you remember any names like Janjusevic and Kolesar? Do you remember similar names and where they come from? And the gentleman who likes to visit the library, of course, and I'm going to the library, to ask, first I'm grateful, after 10 years, you gave a precise answer to who burned down the National Assembly, I don't doubt that the data isn't good, because you're in good relations with those who are now running those who were burning, and are they the same, did DB steal pictures, did that DB set up tenders? And, another question interesting to you, you said that the state is managing, did Mirko Cvetkovic possibly become a bankruptcy manager? He's not doing it very well. His profits, his fees are paid by all citizens, including you and me. However, this country is ruled in an unworthy way that the citizens of Serbia do not deserve. Now I'd like to talk a little bit about these amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. At the moment of the chairmanship of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, the proposal was interpreted by Hope Kolundzija, as an authorised representative of the proposings, and the president praised Mrs Kolundžijion for her extensive and quality speech following the explanation of this act. At first, I thought he was joking a little bit, but later I realized the seriousness of the claim. Indeed, something that reduces the right of the MPs of the people, and based on the conscious acceptance of the amendments and the addition of this Rules of Procedure, and who in such a bravulous way manages to do so should be thanked. Mrs. Kolundjia, perhaps a better Rules of Procedure than you would have written Montgomery. Because if some political parties are paying him a monthly allowance of 7,500 euros, which were not in the elections, which are not financed from the budget, but probably from the tycoon, well, your options are higher, you can grab a little in the budget, so you can pay those if you're sure they'll make us a good Rules of Procedure on our work. Mrs. Komic, I agree with you, we have excellent lawyers, good lawyers and amongst the MPs. Here, you, with a greater desire, want to be a Parliamentarian than to be some government official, because you want to develop this parliamentaryism. That's my wish, too. I read our rules of procedure in detail, and I wanted to see what was changing. One of the debaters said - The National Assembly wants to respect independent regulatory bodies. Yes, we should respect all the authorities in Serbia, but we also demand the respect of the National Assembly. Yesterday we had a chance to see a government official acting in the National Assembly as if this was some kind of cocktail. While MPs present their views on a very serious issue, which was on the agenda yesterday, the government's representative threw it away, joked. What applies to the messengers of the people, even to me, of course, applies to all the participants in the meeting of the National Assembly. Why do independent regulatory bodies even form? The nature, essence, definition, I would not like to talk about because it is in a fantastic way, professionally, a thorough statement by colleague Aleksandar Martinović, deputy head of the SRS Group, which is why so many independent regulatory bodies are formed, so it is said, here, in the last 10 years we have established some bodies that did not exist before. Well, of course, there was no need for some before. The government has never drawn hands in the pockets of citizens as it does today, not in a direct way, but in an indirect way. Those institutions that need to control the attitude of citizens towards the state and fulfil their obligations, they function very effectively. There are very precise regulations, and in the day, everything has to be settled, but when it comes to controlling state institutions, then it doesn't work that way. When the State Auditing Institution was established in 2006, it had no working conditions, it started with four people, in order to succeed in providing them with better working conditions by insisting on SRS MPs. It has been estimated that normal work, and by the organisation of the institution, takes about 90 perpetrators, and then there would be no selective approach to state bodies that should be controlled for spending huge funds on Serbian citizens, but could all be included. And we now have a selective approach – so we will control some, some of us, not, and these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, you want to subtract rights, not to meet Periæ as a national MP and the SRS MP group, but, in general, Parliament, that it can, in a quality and law-defined way, declare the reports that these independent regulatory institutions submit to us in the National Assembly, but you have already transferred it to the committees responsible, which, to remind me, has 19 under the Rules of Procedure on Labour, and the 20th is about the right of the child, which is special, but a permanent working body. As for the number of board members, in all committees, except one defined by nine, and the Committee on the Rights of the Child is not defined by the exact number of members, there are 17 in each committee. Since the assembly majority has a majority on the boards, then there will be no problem with the assessment of the work of these national regulatory, or independent bodies being as appropriate to you. And I'm a little bit beginning to believe, although in policymaking, in approach and in relation to the citizens of Serbia, what it was, as well as a promise of 1,000 euros of free action, and later he said he was only joking to beat Boris Tadic, he says – the power of rule and rule has been removed from Germany 11, it is now located in some informal institutions, that this man was right. Of course, he was on the same side where he ruled. The citizens won't be able to take this very long. Once again, a colleague here spoke like he was just watching television, so he reads a lot, goes to the library, two fingers, a membership card, but here he talks like we live in Switzerland or in another country, and he just says, "Yes, you can do better." Well, who says it's a good life, that citizens live well from the fact that we've brought in over 300 regulations in some year? You don't get to live on it. First, a large number of regulations cannot be applied practically. Secondly, it's just an obligation for our citizens, and no use at all. Mrs. Komic, I know you're protecting the form, and we certainly need to have some rules so we can behave, but sometimes we don't need to close our eyes to the essence, to let us sometimes bring out what the largest number of citizens weighs, not individual cases. And now it would be time, in February of the month, for us to talk a little bit about preparing for the spring set, to talk about what hurts the citizens. Are you going to the store? Do you see the price of food products? Who can take it more and who can pay more? With applause, you rewarded someone who said that Sharici had been given citizenship, or one of the Sharic brothers, at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Well, for Serbian citizens, it doesn't matter who ruled when they were cheated and when they were disfigured, when their jobs were closed and when they didn't have the opportunity to school, and when they didn't have the opportunity to be treated in the way they deserved. I could see here, with some controversy, that you, Mrs. Kolundjia, and some others, are much alike, and the citizens will be able to recognize it. Of course, our facilitating circumstance is the return of our president, who will certainly be Serbia's best president. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50429	It's been used for eight minutes and 25 seconds. I ask you to stick to the agenda, regardless of what the debate on the Rules of Procedure means that we can argue and beyond, but stay on the agenda. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, followed by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50430	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again today, there have been more words about things that are not at all on the agenda, and in much less we have talked about what this item of the agenda refers to, and these are amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that should enable the full independence of the state authorities that have their main role to control the work of executive bodies, or to control the government. Unfortunately, as a country, we have neither affluent practice nor experience with independent state bodies. These independent states, we've practically established organs in the last few years. This meeting was chosen by the Commissioner for Equality. This assembly has formed, finally, and the Anti-Corruption Agency. We had no experience in previous Rules of Procedures regarding the review of the report by independent state authorities and last year, when we adopted a new Rules of Procedure, in a way, we developed provisions on the adoption and review of the report by the state authorities. It was then done by a task force composed of representatives of all the parliamentary groups in this assembly. Everyone had the opportunity to participate in that task force. Some took part, and some of them were not of their own free will. Everyone had a chance to look at the Rules of Procedure and no one gave an amendment to Article 237, which we are changing today. At that time, the task force had a lot of discussion on this subject, and then we decided that all reports of all the bodies of the congregation would be considered in the same way. I think it was a mistake and then there was a proposal to single out reports from some state bodies, independent state bodies, and that they were being debated in a different way. Now we're doing it with this shift. So it was a work group's definition. Afterwards, we had no bad consequences, and no state authority was resolved for failing to submit a report to the National Assembly. Otherwise, when it comes to the resolution of state authorities, independent state authorities and the way they are resolved, it exists in the laws under which these state bodies are formed. The DS considers that it must absolutely not be a consequence of the adoption of a report by a state body to resolve that body. We believe that it is necessary to allow independent state authorities to work without any influence from political parties, and therefore we propose one such change. Anyone who does not vote for such a change in the Serbian Parliament directly wants to have the influence of politics on independent state organs. The independent state authorities in this country, once again, are: the Anti-Corruption Agency, the State Audit Authority, the Trustee of Equality, the Information Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector. Their reports, according to our proposal, will be discussed by the committee responsible. The board of directors is competent to consider these reports, much more than the Assembly of Pleu. There will be a lot more opportunities for these reports to be considered. The committee responsible will be obliged to reach a certain conclusion of the report or to recommend that with measures to improve the situation in a given area. Afterwards, the Serbian Parliament will discuss the committee's report and declare itself and vote on recommendations, i.e. the conclusion of the committee. In this way, we allow full independence of independent state authorities, and on the other hand we allow reports to be considered in the Serbian Parliament, and therefore DS will support this proposal, and I hope that the opposition parties, if they feel that the independent authorities really need to be independent, will vote for the amendments of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50431	Four minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. You have nine minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50432	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, every amendment to the Rules of Procedure for the National Assembly is extremely important because it defines the rules of procedure by which this assembly works. Each time, it should be pointed out that the Rules of Procedure, which are not the law, are adopted by a completely identical procedure, according to which every law is passed, and for us in the Assembly, in many segments, it is more important than the law. Of course, it is important for the Rules of Procedure to be clear, to be unequivocal and, as far as possible, to define certain things unequivocally. This Rules of Procedure is everything but that. The question arises – why is the amendment of the Rules of Procedure being discussed today? This shift has only four members. In doing so, Article 4 is to enter into force on the eighth day from the day of publication. Article 3 is – that the Legislative Committee will establish the consolidated text. Article 1 and Article 2 are important. Article 1 deletes the indent of Article 237 which defines that, in the event an independent body report is not accepted, it initiates a procedure for its replacement, although this member says that any law establishing an independent body specifically defines the procedure. So this provision is generally observed, contrary to these individual laws, that is, it could not be applied. It's a dispute that she's found herself here in the first place. A new member is being added who, now, is editing the procedure. However, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic's amendment has emerged, unfortunately, he is not in the hall now, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, and it is an extremely important amendment that erases one of the five views of this new member who is proposed. The reason is that the amendment is submitted in order to bring the Rules of Procedure's proposal in line with the Unique Methodological Rules for the Making of Regulations. Those regulations were adopted by the Legislative Committee. They're also important. They define how amendments are submitted, how any regulation discussed here is ever submitted. A passage is deleted which says that, after the debate with the majority of the votes of the Messengers, at the session where most of them are present, the conclusions are adopted. It is clear that this is already defined, and if nothing else is defined by Article 238, which is the next member. Then what isn't clear? It is not clear when a member proposed is observed. He now has four positions, I suppose what Mr. Ratkovic suggested will be adopted. Article 4 states: "In the work of the committee responsible and session of the National Assembly, a representative of an independent state body whose report is being discussed is taking part. ''That's the exact same attitude as Article 1st. 237. Furthermore, Article 237a has an attitude 3 that is identical to the position of Article 4 of Article 237a. Article 237a also has a position 2 which is identical to the position of Article 337a. We have an attitude that is identical to that of Article 238. Why not apply the Unique Methodological Regulations to Article 237, so we don't wipe out the whole article? Why? Because then the whole amendment to the Rules of Procedure would be an amendment to the butanea which determines the erasure of the impeachment initiative and then the whole thing would be completely clear, completely unequivocal and would show exactly what this is about. Is such a proposal of the Rules of Procedure clear now or not clear? Well, he's very vague. This is how - the whole point is in submitting reports and discussing them. Each of these organs submits at least two reports to the National Assembly. What report does this Rules of Procedure refer to, and what report are we even discussing? We have a state audit institution. The state audit institution has an obligation to submit at least two reports each year. One is the report on its work, and the other is the report on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as the report on the final account of local self-government and public enterprises, which will only begin to work. What report does this Rules of Procedure refer to now? On one or the other. The second thing, in the tide, if we're trying to work and the existence of independent organs in our system, there are systems that these independent organs don't have, we've decided that we want to have them in our system. If we want the organs to be independent, then we can't discuss their reports. And, when it comes to the State Auditing Institution, there are two reports, one of these reports is discussed by the committee responsible. He can neither adopt nor reject that report, because it's not his job. The committee responsible may only propose recommendations to the Assembly based on the report. What can we do to make things better? A report by the state authority at the plenary session cannot be discussed for a very simple reason. The Assembly's session must end with a vote. The Assembly's session can't end with a no vote. If a report is discussed, the debate must be followed at the end of the debate. The vote ends with: the report was adopted or the report – not adopted. In both cases, the concept of an independent organ is directly destroyed. On the one hand, there are regulations and, on the other hand, how important it is that there is a relationship to certain regulations, as well as the application of certain rules in practice. What is the attitude of the National Assembly toward independent bodies? On the one hand, we have a principled commitment to impose regulations, to discuss these reports. These reports have never been discussed before. On the other hand, when we look at some of the state authorities, for example, the Securities Commission, which is also an important state body and which regulates securities of value – do you know that their mandate expired in 2009? It expired in 2009 and we talked a million times about the need to choose a new one, these are just doing their duty until a new composition is chosen. There's no initiative to change them either. Let's talk about another important state body, it's the Telecommunications Agency, only now, next week, we're going to have a procedure for selecting members. They had the term of office, including the president, since it was the first meeting that had – 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, six or seven months ago, the last of the five members. They didn't have a full mandate either. Let's talk about the Fiscal Council. The fiscal world has been announced as a body that will help, like all of these, both in the work of parliament and as the new independent body that exists in our system, although there exists, for example, the State Audit Institute. The deadline for the candidate's delivery was 90 days from the day of the adoption of the law. Since the law was passed in October, the deadline for submission of candidates was December 12th. The candidates are being delivered to the Assembly: President of the Republic, Governor and Minister of Finance. The President of the Republic delivered, it seems to me, on 20 December, eight days after the deadline; the governor, on 24 December, 12 days after the deadline; the finance minister, who proposed the law, delivered his candidate on 27 January, so, month and a half, 45 days after the deadline. We can advocate independent organs as long as we want, as long as we don't respect those organs in practice, we don't respect the deadlines, we won't get far. The problem is, this kind of change of rules leaves a lot of doubt. There's no telling which reports he's referring to. Once again, it points us to the ambiguous provisions, and then every time we advertise through the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, or, I don't know in which ways, things that are very clear, very uniform, about which absolutely should not be a dilemma, a team before, when the president of the Legislative Committee, and one of the signatories, such small changes to the rules, yet you will admit, if one member is changed, it cannot be taken, no matter how much a major change is, however, it is a small amendment, delivers the amendment, then it is clear, that here, with all good intentions, it is a matter of hasty again, and hastiness very rarely brings a good result. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50433	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, followed by the MP Jadranka Jovisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50434	First of all, there is absolutely no one in this white world, and at least the ones you mention in this article, some independent state bodies. That complete independence, even, isn't even the President of the United States, who has at first sight some discretionary right to enter that little room where that red button is, but even his discretionary right is, even, bound by certain restrictive things and factors, so I'm saying, even he doesn't have complete independence. As for the finding, just for a moment, let me look back, that whoever doesn't vote to change what you have today, is actually supporting some powerful people. I'll be happy to try to explain later and explain that it's an absolute substitute thesis, that it's quite different. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure provide for this famous Article 237 in paragraph 5 to delete indent 5, which was prescribed that the committee responsible in its report on the examination of the report of the national authorities may propose to the National Assembly not to accept the report and to initiate the procedure for determining the responsibilities of officials in that State authority. The Committee is now proposing to the Assembly that it may reach some conclusion and some recommendation, with measures to improve the situation in the area. After the adoption and these changes to the Rules of Procedure, here is the absolute discretion of the public authority holder, or as you call him here, to decide whether there is a violation of the law or not by a state body, or a responsible person in that state body, and to decide whether to initiate proceedings against that person. And that's where it stops. I don't need apriors, and I have no intention, nor is that true, to question the expertise and legal knowledge of those, as you call them, independent state bodies, or persons in those bodies, those who do so, the words of the law probably or certainly know. But hypothetically, is it enough and can it happen in practice that he only knows the words of the law? You know, whoever only knows the words of the law doesn't know the law yet. And when he understands the meaning and essence, only then can he be said to know the law. This saying is particularly true if it is a discretionary right, and if there is still political influence, then the picture is complete. I will now try to compare a little of this discretionary right with another discretionary right which, for example, judges, holders of judicial functions on certain factual states in the search, or discretion given by the same judge-holder when deciding on the height of the sentence. So, in the range between the legal minimum and the legal maximum. It is true that the holders of the judicial functions, but as you call them, independent state bodies, should be allowed this discretionary right when making certain decisions, whether they relate to actions in the process or to measuring decision-making. Indeed, there is no dispute and no doubt. However, there are certain differences in discretion in the judicial decision and discretion that the independent state body, or public authority, now has. What's the basic difference? Any decision by the judge, the judge-holder, to use his discretionary right to make a decision that he personally considers to be the most correct, in a way, is limited by the decision of more instance. The second-degree court appreciates whether the judge-holder has done everything in the way he should have done with regard to the proceedings and with regard to the measurement of the decision. However, this will be the basic similarity between the court proceedings and this procedure conducted by the state authority in the light of their discretionary right. What are you doing with this amendment to the Rules of Procedure? First, you consciously push independent and state bodies in front of the lion's jaw, but now it's just obvious. Secondly, here you're actually expanding the ambience, one environment of a dangerous place to live. I'll try to explain both of these things now. If we analyse both of these points, the question arises, what was the position of the state body that presented to the Assembly a report on the work of a particular state body or body, when it knew in advance that the Assembly could not accept its findings, instead, to initiate proceedings against the responsible person in that state body? And now, when you adopt these changes that you have proposed, what is his position now that the Assembly can only make a recommendation or some conclusion? Not only are you demeaning the Assembly, but you're pushing what you call an independent state organ into the lion's jaw. That's the first aspect of this problem. The second aspect is, I said, what, in fact, you're deepening that negative environment, that you're deepening that dangerous place for life, and that's too much for us in this country. In this dangerous place of life, about such a dangerous place, it was long ago said by the great Einstein, that this world is a very dangerous place to live, but not because of those who are evil, but because of those who do nothing, who do nothing about it and who do nothing about it. Now, that's dangerous. That's exactly what you're doing, that's what you're doing. What will happen practically by accepting these changes and additions? So, when you allow one discretionary law of an independent state authority, as you call it, to be decided instead by someone else, some who may have made up this government or influenced that it is, as it is, then only seemingly ministers will be untouchable, and in fact, after that, untouchable will be those who made up the government, those sheiks who bought more than half or almost all of Serbia will be untouchable. I'm afraid these changes and additions, which you're proposing, are what you really want. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50435	Eight minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is a folk letter from Jadranka Jovisic, followed by a folk letter from Gordana Pop Lazic. I'm just asking you to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50436	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not in any way share the view that Serbia is a dangerous place to live. Serbia is a good place to live, and it can be the best place for all citizens and citizens to live, if we are working on living freely. This is exactly one step towards it. When we talk about independent regulatory bodies and when we look at Parliament's relationship and independent regulatory bodies, it seems to us that this relationship is not fully regulated and that we may be able to make certain efforts to remove the ambiguities, so that this relationship is fully defined. When we made the new Rules of Procedure, we wanted to specify how the reports that independent regulatory bodies are required to submit to the Assembly are discussed. However, it turns out that the definition of Article 237 has left the possibility that someone could use this member to put political pressure on the bodies that should be independent, and that is why I find it really strange to hear here today my colleagues who are against this rebellion, who are finding something controversial in this. I guess we're all trying to make these bodies independent. We have proposed to specifically establish procedures for considering reports of independent regulatory bodies, these are bodies dealing with the protection of the rights of citizens and citizens, the fight against corruption, etc. Therefore, we would like to propose a procedure under which the committee in charge is considering the report of an independent regulatory body, these reports propose to the National Assembly that it should consider, therefore, those conclusions. We should stress that the purpose of these conclusions is precisely to propose certain measures and recommendations that would improve the situation and improve the situation in these areas. The intention is to remove any possible space of abuse, any possibility of political pressure affecting independent regulatory bodies. The Democratic Party and DS MPs will always advocate once in a proper procedure to protect bodies that should be independent. That's what I'm asking you to do in the voting day, we all support the proposals we've been discussing here today. I think it's in everyone's interest to remove the possibility of anyone ever putting political pressure on independent regulatory bodies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50437	Two minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is a folk letter from Gordana Pop Lazić, followed by a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is possible that Serbia's citizens will find this discussion of the Rules of Procedure unnecessary, at a time when they are plagued by much bigger problems, but we have to deal with this problem too, given first of all that our entire legal system is a mess, that is the conclusion of the SRS, and that many provisions, not only of the law, but even of the Constitution, are not implemented. You see, we are free of these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, if we do not respect them too, as we do not respect the provision of Article 99 point 11) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the Constitution obliges us to adopt the budget and final account of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Government. You remember very well, and the citizens of Serbia also know that since 2000, we may have had a final account on the agenda twice and no one lacked a head hair because of it. Perhaps that was also the reason for the discussion of the government's mistrust or the interpretation of certain ministers, but it wasn't done, for the simple reason, which was clear to us that the parliamentary majority depended on everything. And the parliamentary majority is obviously ready to tolerate everything, as it has tolerated this situation, that we do not have today's VAT law, which the president of the Republic did not sign, and there should be so much responsibility in that number of MPs who asked for today's session, a session that has been going on for three days, to put it on the agenda too. I understand that we are in an extraordinary session, but that is not at all why we wait for a regular session to discuss it, because the Constitution obliges us to do so, and our Rules of Procedure says – the first next session, does not say regular, does not say extraordinary session. Even though this has something to do with the agenda, let's get back to the changes to the Rules of Procedure. We believe that the addition of Article 237a is only a mask for the previous member of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, where it is actually required to be deleted in Article 237 of Article 5(5), i.e. we no longer have the possibility that, unless the report is accepted, the procedure for determining the responsibilities of officials in the state body, organisation or body. Why is that? Obviously, because it wants to get out of parliament, so to speak, out of jurisdiction something that is indisputable to its jurisdiction, although these so-called independent, but certainly regulatory bodies, as something that we adopted from Anglo-Saxon law, which, somehow, has passed over the last ten years into practice and the states applying continental law, the number of those regulatory bodies that have been designed to extract individual businesses or individual powers not only from jurisdiction but also from the control of the executive authority, we have not succeeded, we have to admit, although it has been formed over a hundred such agencies and other bodies, directorship, administration, I don't know what everything, that we really do so. There are, according to us, several kinds of these regulatory bodies. It's one of the ones the government has an exclusive influence on. These are less perhaps significant, such as, say, the National Council for Higher Education, the National Educational Council, etc. There is one group where the executive authorities have or may have a significant impact, such as the Energy Agency or the Telecommunications Agency. There is one group involving bodies that are educated with slightly greater political influence, such as the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, the Information Commissioner, the DRI Council and the Securities Committee. It's the ones you want to single out right here at this point of 237a. Rules of Procedure. There are also those regulatory bodies in Serbia whose choice is the least political influence, such as the Competition Protection Council or the Republic Committee on Dispute of Interest. We need to realize that there are several types of these regulatory bodies, however, we must also say that they are in a difficult situation to implement even what we have legally designated to be their jurisdiction. Because the situation needs to be remembered that their recommendations, opinions, and solutions in certain cases are not respected, so the purpose of their existence is in some way unthinkable. Let's say, when the Commissioner for Information instructed the NIS to provide information on the director's salaries to the Administrative Board of the Serbian Parliament, this public firm sued the Supreme Court and thus avoided, as early as 2008, how much money was made available today. As independent bodies as they are, they kind of have an independent budget, sometimes yes, sometimes they don't, but it depends on how independent they are or not. If we cannot yet have any impact on whether we will choose or resolve those who are headed by these regulatory bodies, then any sense of Parliament's control over those institutions is lost. The Constitution itself mentions these regulatory bodies and says that everyone has the right to access data owned by state authorities and organisations entrusted with public powers under the law, but how can this be done? Either through the means of public information, or by asking the Commissioner for Information, or what parliamentarians, or what parliament will discuss about their work and through, as proposed, the committees in charge, to discuss how they did or whether they met what the law has ordered them to do as their basic work. We need to isolate in some way the DRI, which the Constitution says is the highest state body of audit and public funds in the Republic of Serbia, is independent and subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it is responsible. So there is a direct responsibility to the National Assembly. Here in the Rules of Procedure, where we edit our work, we go through the board of directors, although in the DRI Act, of course nothing about it stands. By interpreting the provisions of these amendments, we have come to the conclusion that only if a report of a regulatory body is not submitted to the relevant committee, and the committee does not refer it to the Assembly, is there possible to determine the responsibility of the heads of the institution. That wasn't the case until now. We ask the question – is this really the main intention of proposing this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, given that the whole article is 237a. has already been found in Articles 237 and 238? Practically prescribed provisions. We have three almost identical members of the Rules of Procedure, except that we have deleted, of course, this indent 5, which was obviously the most insulated by the parliamentary majority, there is the possibility of the greatest interference and the greatest pressure of the executive authority on these so-called independent regulatory bodies, because then they are able to call for responsibility or pressure on the managers of these regulatory bodies. This is a member of 237a. in its position 2 is exactly the same as Article 238, only deletes one section concerning the measure to improve the situation in those areas. Whether we'll ever have a agenda and a number of reports that all agencies, administrations, directorates and other regulatory bodies, we can't see from this. It will be some free appraisal, I suppose, of either the board of directors or the parliamentary majority. We're almost convinced that we're not going to have any of that on the agenda until now, and you're going to convince us that that's not the case, the moment you put any of the final accounts on the agenda since 2004, it seems to me, until today. If you don't respect the Constitution, what would you respect the Rules of Procedure? What's so important about this Rules of Procedure that this has changed? You say it has nothing to do with the EU's accession, which you are seeking, but it is obvious that you are recapitulating everything that exists in EU countries, which is otherwise largely applying Anglo-Saxon law and that you want something like that to exist in Serbia. Our relationship with these bodies has always been clear. We considered them mostly excessive, at least this number over the table, I don't think anyone counted exactly how many there are, because they're a huge expense, primarily for the state, and they don't return as much as they're invested in it. So, they're not frames, they're not capable, whether because they're not really independent or because they don't have enough resources, we know that some have waited years to be established at all, even though the law was passed three or four years before that, or to get space where they're going to work, but on paper everything is possible. It's possible to predict whatever you want, but when that thing needs to live, when it has to have some effect yes, then it's obviously a big problem. So, this item of the agenda was obviously designed just to fill the agenda of this session, and we have a lot of bigger problems, well, here's the next session, which you accidentally called, with two points of the agenda, to talk about Dick Marty's report and the LDP's request, to talk about a whole other topic, says you're not ready to talk about those crucial things that concern all Serbian citizens and of course the Serbian state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50439	From the time of the parliamentary group, 14 minutes and 35 seconds have been used. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. The parliamentary group shall have 25 minutes at their disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50440	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listening to the MPs of the majority assembly today, I must say that I am very proud to belong to the SRS, which is always consistent and principled. Why am I stressing this? Because it's just amazing that someone seven months ago, when we adopted this Rules of Procedure, which is so much, and in force, said something quite the opposite of what they're up against today. And as far as we know, nothing has changed in the meantime. I really don't know how the MPs are, I have no intention of saying this in a way that I insult anyone, but I don't understand how someone at least doesn't blush when they remember what he used to say and what he's saying now, compared to the same problem. We in the SRS have also talked about what our opinion of the so-called independent regulatory bodies is. And, indeed, they are so-called. We've always said, we're saying this today, that there can't be independent regulation bodies, that it's impossible for the assembly majority to choose members in the so-called independent regulatory body, to propose them exclusively from the congregation majority, exclusively from the regime, that they are in public, in one way or another, members of the regime, and then say that they are independent. You never wanted to be completely honest and say that you are fulfilling someone's wishes, so for this reason you need to form some regular bodies, but these are your regulatory bodies, just like the Government, like all of you, the congregation majority, Borissov, because it is generally known that he is the one who holds all the strings and the so-called independent regulatory bodies, and the congregation majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia. I haven't met him yet when I get on the city bus, and I expect he might be charging tickets. So, man everywhere is absolutely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This relates to how unprincipled you are and how much you then advocated and claimed that it is necessary for the Assembly to adopt the report of the regulatory body and that the Assembly, if it does not like that report, should immediately resolve the elder of that regulatory body. We were telling you then that in this way you absolutely hold them in your hand, that it is inadmissible, that you must not do it. You have convinced that this is in line with some European standards, that it is the only possible thing. That's when you voted. In the meantime, something's changed. None of you said what, except you changed your mind by order. We in the SRS, I repeat, we said the same thing then and now. We do not need any European opinions for our views. We, thank God, all of us have our healthy Serbian brains, we have common sense at all times and in all circumstances we act exclusively in the interests of Serbia and in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Unfortunately, you can't brag about that. Whether these so-called independent bodies are independent or not, it's undeniable to everyone that they're not. The biggest problem is that the Serbian Parliament is not independent, because the Serbian Parliament is working on a order from Brussels and you are not interested in what the real circumstances are and what the interests of Serbian citizens are. Then you were told that you could do this, so someone there changed their mind and sent some fax and said, "No, you can't." Now you have to do this. You're listening, we're wasting our time here to discuss the Rules of Procedure, after that people's "silence burns and the grandmother combs." What's the point? You don't need a Rules of Procedure. We tell you this very often, but unfortunately, we are not very often in a position, because you are not exactly applying the Rules of Procedure as the Rules of Procedure say, and very often you do not allow us to advertise the Rules of Procedure, nor to replicate, when it is obvious that we have the right to do so...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50441	People's MPs, please do not compromise the reputation of the National Assembly and do not make false statements, and do not abuse the subject of the agenda at your disposal. The accusations you make, believing that you have the right to do so in the context of the debate, are not true and defaminate the work of all 250 MPs. I warn you to stick to the topic of the agenda and use your freedom of speech and argument without offense to the institution of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50442	One of the representatives of the assembly's majority today said that opposition parties' views are wrong, that they are not true of representatives of opposition parties who say that the attitude towards the opposition in this Parliament is the same as that of the ruling majority. Mrs. Comic, I really need to say on a few occasions that that is not true. It is not true because, let's say, for something that the chairman estimates as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you say to the ruling majority, not you personally, I'm talking about the chairman, to give him a warning. By the way, there's no such thing in the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50443	People's MPs, I now warn you to speak on the subject of the agenda and that any attempt to abuse the right to an argument forces me to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Personal criticism and exchange of arguments in replicas with MPs are allowed and desirable. The demeaning of the National Assembly by saying that something is going on in the National Assembly that is not happening is not allowed because it endangers the reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50444	How do your so-called independent regulatory bodies function? Here's a few examples. What did you do with the State Auditor and his reports? A common lattice! It is a general opinion of anyone who is seriously involved, not only in politics, but who is seriously considering the state of Serbia. The state auditor makes some reports, hundreds of thousands of pages, controls someone, doesn't control someone, says -- that minister broke the law, that minister may have earned prosecution. What's in it for us? We don't have anything. The ministers continued, the same ones he marked in the previous report that they broke the law, so Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said they were not breaking the law but were the heads of accounting in the ministries, so he said he would send them to some seminars, I don't know if he sent them, because this year the same problems in those reports, and nothing. So you're making a joke out of something that should be an important state business. How does the Protector of the Citizens work? Who is this man protecting? What relationship did he have with the Nastic family, who was taken from the children and what did he do for them? That's why he chose to play SANA and try to change the Serbian dictionary, forbid it to be said to someone that she was a lady, make up some words: a driver, etc. Who's he to do that? You tolerate it all, you choose it. When you need something to compliment you, you put it on TV to praise you. When you want to humiliate Vuk Jeremic because, wisely, he didn't want to go to the award of a shameful Nobel Prize, you send him, I don't know what he went to, or where he was. So that's what the so-called independent regulatory bodies are for. What does the Anti-Corruption Agency serve you? First, you disrespected the Anti-Corruption Commission, you demeaned everything Verica Barać has done, with which she has met several times the public, I do not know how many criminal charges she has filed. To be clear, Verica Barac has nothing to do with the SRS, nor have we ever been close on any basis, politically in particular. We can't say a woman didn't do a good job that part of her job. But today she's doing this commission, the Council, as she's already called, and we have, here, parallel to that Agency, so the director of the Agency that swore, you haven't taken her off state television, from all the TVs in Serbia, who swore to introduce order, she'll finally stop at the tail of corruption. What did she do?- I'm sorry. She didn't do anything! Did she examine this lady, or her Anti-Corruption Agency, from where money was paid to Mladjan Dinkic and Tomislav Nikolic for apartments, which, the media wrote, they themselves admitted, paid one 300,000 other 200 thousand euros? Every layman who calculates what they said they had from selling existing apartments and that they got loans must be asked where they get their credit back, because these credit rates are bigger than their salaries. Did she do something about it? It's not! What did she do when she read that Tomislav Nikolic had reported to the agency that he was driving a 'ladu-level' 12, 13-year-old, when every day anyone could see Tomislav Nikolic driving in angry cars? Did she at least ask him, and then let the public know where he got it? What did the agency and this lady do to explain to the progressive party how money for campaigning expensive, to rent the most expensive locations in the centres of all places, and it is known that they do not receive from the budget of the Republic of Serbia a single dinar? Who manages independent regulatory bodies, ladies and gentlemen of the assembly majority, is the question that we are asking you to answer, and you should ask Boris Tadic to tell us here and to tell the citizens of Serbia? You don't have independent regulatory bodies. So, what you're doing right now in the change of rules of procedure, I don't know if you've read this, what you've done? What have you changed compared to what you had in this amended article? Just that you have to adopt the report now, which is also amazing. You don't have any other option, but whatever they're writing, shows to the Assembly through the board of directors, this is where they have to be adopted. That's the only way to interpret it. But why did I say at first that you didn't actually need a Rules of Procedure? Because, here, I ask you on behalf of the SRS, why the President of Parliament has not acted in accordance with Article 153. Rules of Procedure, why is it not stated at the beginning of this session that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, changes to the VAT Act and the Law on financial support for families with children, submitted by the SRS Parliamentary Group? It's amazing and you have no reason to be angry when we tell you what's obvious and what's true. Now, come on, listen up, and fix up a little bit. You don't like the Rules of Procedure, at least act on it, and if you're ever in the mood to make warnings, make warnings, but don't make warnings that don't exist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50445	Since the time of the SRS Parliamentary Group, 12 minutes have been used. The monitor was 14.11, but the violation of the Rules of Procedure required explanations and necessary guidance in the work. Today's morning session is over at the moment. Before I set a break, from the usual one hour, on the basis of Article 90(2), on the basis of Article 87, I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will begin the afternoon session at 15.00 hours, continuing the debate in accordance with the order of the MPs according to the application for a word. Natasa Jovanovic's MP will have the word. Following the end of the debate, i.e. a joint single search on the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will open a search in detail on amendments made by the MPs at the first item of the sitting agenda. The search will begin with an hour and minute in which MPs will be informed of the government's report, which is obliged to submit a report on the amendments, so that depending on whether they will all do their job, it is possible that the search in particulars will be opened immediately after the debate on a joint single search is concluded and a working break may be possible until the required number of copies is copied. Article 87, I said, that means we'll be working after 6:00 p.m., and until the search ends in detail on the first item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I give my word to Vice President Natashi Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50447	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Kolundzija, we continue the story of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns members of 237 and independent so-called state bodies. For Serbian citizens who have not followed our afternoon discussion, I just want to repeat some of the views of the SRS and what Master Alexander Martinovic spoke of, and this is our view that, first of all, these bodies are not, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, since they are the constitutional category, they should have a function of independence from 2006. But later on, we tried to explain to the citizens of Serbia that it was a simple farce, illustrating what it looked like in practice. Even now, since we are the highest legislative authority in the country, we should remind the citizens of Serbia that this principle has been shared by the Serbian Radicals, since the renewal of the multilaterals and the introduction of a multi-party system in Serbia, the most important aspect of the functioning of society. In addition, we are all bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and this best-called horizontal division of power in: legislative, executive and judicial, is something that in every democratic society and society in which these constitutional categories are respected should function in the best possible way. You also remember, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that 20 years ago, and even eight years ago, here, tomorrow is eight years since Dr. Vojislav Seselj went to the 'Haski Kazamat', our president always said that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must have the role of supervisors and that the legislative authority should control above all the executive authority. As Mr Martinović noticed from both scientific and political point of view this morning, this is some fourth branch of government, so that we can otherwise call all these so-called independent bodies, or organs. And that they are not independent in performing their functions and that they do not have, as you yourself thought as an enthusiast and president of the Assembly at the very beginning, Mrs Djukic-Dejanović, because, behold, I have before me, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has printed this book that is dedicated to the work of these bodies, simply, all of what we could read in this book 'comparative practice from other countries', which would be said here in Serbia – does not drink water. When we talk about the Citizens' Protector, as they call it, I must tell you that my experience with this category of so-called independent body dates back to a few years before the new Constitution was passed, and you know that, because we in the town of Kragujevac, based on the Law on local self-government, was established by the Ombudsman in 2004. What has changed since it was established there or since the launch of the Manchester, or the Citizens' Protector, to work in Serbia? Absolutely nothing, because tradition and a truly binding role, not formally, because in many countries where there is a recommendation of the Protector of Citizens is not binding, but where this really institutionally exists and where there is a great tradition, like in Sweden, where it was established in 1809, also serves in the functions of the so-called state of well-being and protection of individual citizens, and we believe that we Serbian radicals, that each citizen should play an equally important role in this society. But it's not like that today. We here have citizens of the first and second order, those who are in power, as Monteskje has long noticed, not that they are corrupt goods, but that the positions of government, and even that comes to the absolute behaviour of individuals, such as President Boris Tadic, who is the position of President of the Republic of Serbia abuses and does all that is not prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we are in one situation so that citizens think that these people, agencies, allegedly, are doing their job, are investigating some crime, corruption, and simply nothing is happening in this sense. Even our former colleague, Mr. Sabic, who is the Commissioner for Public Information, a few months after the law was passed, you remember, he appeared in all the media, had no office to sit, but to wander some halls, you can't tell us that as in this book that we have received and he is able to impose through his binding solution, that it is indeed how the law works, to the individual or the authority to perform that role, or that we know that he has launched him before the administrative court for contempt of dozens of lawsuits. It is simply not true, because everything is farce and because it was only meant to serve as a mask or as a condition of the Brussels administration, on your unfortunate path to Serbia's accession to the European Union, against which it is explicitly SRS, and we see from month to month, and an increasing number of Serbian citizens surveyed. And these independent so-called bodies and organs are not in a position to be as independent as you imagined and wrote on paper, doing your job. Why? Well, here, let's remember the example, and that's mentioned this morning, the people who are MPs, who have functions and the province's MPs, the AP Assembly of Vojvodina, who have 10, 15 functions, none of them have given up because the law obliges them to do so. Why? They got a public warning, a warning, one or two media, printed and electronic told two or three days about it and nothing. We have colleagues here who are MPs, and at the same time the presidents of the municipality and the mayors, they didn't think to resign to those functions, but to accumulate functions on both boards and in all these places, they show that they are. You can't get to know a man until he comes to power, because he's pulling him to abuse. Of course, we have the practice of the entire DOS to do that. And as for the basic function of the existence of the SRS and our involvement in the government, anytime and anywhere, discipline, responsibility by function, that's what Dr Vojislav Seselj has always taught us, is something that is the basic direction of our action to be in the function of citizens. That this ruling coalition is not and that it is not possible for a legislative body, whose head you chair, to control the executive power, also show all these affairs that have surfaced in the public and ultimately, and all that has happened to you with one of your coalition partners, because the government is composed of Washington and Brussels, with a stake and a rope, and no one else can control, or just your Western mentors, you, in the function of carrying out those tasks. A colleague of Radeta mentioned the Anti-Corruption Agency. I would like to remain here on some concrete examples, first because of our legal obligation to all of us and all elected officials in Serbia, that by the end of January of the month, the current year, we report our property card, any changes, if they have happened. This year, the Agency's director informed us that if there were no changes, although we had done so before and without them, especially in our Serbian Radicals, we are people of the people, we live, some of us by being employed in this function, some of them in others, but the easiest thing now is for those who have been told – you do not have to report if you have no changes, and not that there have been changes in their property status and members of their families, but simply they will keep it quiet, the Agency will not go any other way, because it has not done so yet. We have the case, first of all, of Tomislav Nikolic, who had an enormous increase in property, i.e. wealth, and members of his family, of all connected persons, since he tried to crack in the SRS, up to two and a half years ago, and counterpart Nemanja Sarovic calculated nicely that it was about a million and a half euros. You know very well, since he is also employed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as far as I remember for 19 years or now 20, that no 800,000-euro apartments can be bought from the parliamentary salary, that there are 400,000-euro castles in the village of birth, and expensive cars, etc. Where were you, gentlemen of the DS, who made this new phantom political party at the time you needed to deal with Serbian radicals most dirtyly, to examine the origin of that money and the financing of the SNS? The party monthly pays seven and a half thousand euros in services to former US Ambassador Montgomery for advice, you saw, as it was announced, and Montgomery did not deny it, but only said it – I refer you to my clients, i.e. SNS, to advise them on further destruction of Serbia, as he advised you and brought you to power after 2000, or October 5th. And where, then, is there justice for an ordinary man? How can a citizen of Kragujevac who in seven or eight thousand cases, before the City Protector of Citizens have objections to the legalisation process, to the process in the field of work and protection at work, disabled workers, who have lost their jobs by unbiased termination of the contract by the flag of cars, because they are not provided with protection workshops, so they are now sent to a new company, without taking over the right of employment for everything that follows them?- I'm sorry. If you can't, or if the ruling majority and we as the highest legislative authority can't carry out that strict division of power and do control, well, it is, indeed, the farce and existence of these so-called independent regulatory bodies that doesn't drink water and change of Rules and what you are doing now, it is the inability of the Assembly to refuse their report for the period for which they submit it, they are saying enough to degrade the Assembly even more and to give us the role of someone who will be adjudicating and to accept everything that comes from the cabinet, first of all the president of the state, and all those who at the top of the government are channeling all flows, from monetary, financial, and so on political meddlings on the political scene of Serbia. When it was first mentioned in the Law on Local Self-Government for the protection of citizens, we were harshly against it, as I said later. And, as my colleague Martinovic noted today, those who wrote the Constitution did not, nor did I, but did it together with you in 2006, today is your biggest critic. You gave him the opportunity, stole the mandates of the SRS, scurryed with him behind the scenes, which you would say, because he's a desirable and good partner, both for the Americans and for the West, the DS, and here he holds a letter about how you're not a democratic society, which you're essentially not, but that tells you someone who's in the worst possible way to get to that position, by kidnapping, or by ending the election will of citizens. These independent regulatory bodies in all countries, such as Serbia is not, where they exist, and where they have, as I said, a decades-long tradition, or several centuries, as is the case in Sweden, struggle that through partnership with the National Assembly, or with the highest legislative body, they also play the role of some mediator, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you are also witnesses, and I believe that, personally, as President of the Assembly, you do not support it, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is continuing the law and its determination that the Assembly should work, bomb, dictates, dictates a pace based on what comes from the European Commission, directly from Brussels. They can be, in some countries, as some mediators, or someone who will be placed between the government and the legislative body. In this case, it's absolutely impossible. You also saw an example of our citizens' protector and the disgrace that struck Serbia, when it went to the award of a shameful Nobel Prize, and all because Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic had a different opinion at the time. As far as DRI and Mr. Sretenovic are concerned, you have indeed brought his role and everything he has done over the past year and last year's report and this one, to the lowest possible branches. He was also forced to address the public, and the prime minister gave us, as every time, some unsettling answer, that the inspection, or control of the work of those ministries, as negatively mentioned in the Auditor's Report, would send to those ministries to see if they respected the Budgetary System Act. The budget system law that you have changed several times since Djelic proposed it in 2001 and adopted it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia remains a suitable space for the manipulation of each species. You can talk about whatever you want and justify yourself in local self-government units and by the ministries and balance in annual accounts of the final budget, but you left two key notes 422 and 423 – specialized services or services by contract and you can wash as much as you can, or rob as much money from the budget, do it through public enterprises and wherever you rule. After all, this appeal and the public warning that the media correctly conveyed in the last two days by Mr. Nemanja Sarovic on the robbery of the municipality of Zemun and the municipality of Voždovac by Aleksandr Vukic, Nebojje Stefanović and all of Vučić's associates, through this company where he has his participation, Stefanovic's wife and the entire click from SNS, should be a signal to those who are conducting budgetary surveillance and inspection, as well as to these so-called regulatory independent bodies to do their job and to deliver everything we are looking for to the public, and to our colleague Sarovic, as soon as tomorrow, to continue to expose all these affairs. And again, we wouldn't be in a position to do it, and in such a way, they're robbing and citizens where they're on fraud and buying votes and campaigns paid for by Serbian tycoons to get power, if it wasn't for DS and your hands being given to those who serve you now and today. After all, we will see at the end and during this year, that these people who perform these functions in these agencies and in these bodies will not be able to fight crime and corruption, because they have the protection of all those at the top of the regime, which today, in Serbia, unfortunately, Serbian citizens, is extremely poor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50448	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone who has not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50449	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPS-JS, I have made a clear position when it comes to the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to repeat this position for one reason only, which today, in addition to discussions on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, has heard a lot in the debate. In order not to remain undetected, I would like to clearly confirm that the SPS-JS supports the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure for one reason alone – it does not want or wants to remove any suspicion that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is having a political impact on independent state bodies. On the contrary, we want to support them, we want to affirm them, and we think that they are the support for helping the National Assembly to achieve one of the basic functions, which is the supervisory function of the National Assembly. So, just for that reason, to remove the suspicion that someone could abuse it, we supported the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure. You noticed that we did not participate in a debate imposing Serbia's past. The SPS does not want to participate, for the simple reason that the past is something that has passed, Serbia needs today to resolve issues today, who will solve issues tomorrow. We want to make our full contribution to help Serbia solve its problems today, to open up the possibility of better living in Serbia tomorrow. That is why, for these reasons, we have not participated, and we will never participate in this when Serbia is being imposed as the main issue of how it was in the past. After all, we don't want as a party just to make the past our future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50450	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word is made by a representative of the Proposer, the National MP of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50451	Madam President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I could not conclude from this debate that anyone in this House is against the possibility of removing any possibility of having a political influence on independent state authorities and therefore I could conclude that in the day of voting, all MPs will vote for these amendments and additions. So, I believe that everyone here will show whether he represented the views behind him by voting for this decision proposal or whether it is simply popular to support the solutions we have proposed and not to make a statement in the voting day. I am sorry every time we go back to the past and I really think that what is most important – that at this moment we find solutions for a future that will really be different from the past in this country and I really think that all those who support these efforts truly want Serbia to step into a future where its citizens will be better and that is why all those who support this government and who make this ruling majority every day unequivocally show that the future is what we are all doing together to make it more certain, safer, peaceful and promising for generations to come. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50452	Thank you. I'm concluding a unique search. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF DANITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE USE OF THE SERBIA BANK A.D. BELGRADE FOR OBLIGATIONS JP "JUGOIMPORT – SDPR" (the search in particular) You have received an amendment submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha on the bill. You received the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buha. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50453	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, once again, the SRS warns the finance minister and the finance ministry, as the legislator of this law, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that it is an anti-zactory act. We already pointed that out in principle and repeated it on several occasions. Obviously, however, there is no hearing on the other hand. I'm going to point out once again for public reasons where the illegality of this is. We do not dispute everything about aid, about production, about development, about exports, etc., we are talking exclusively about the legal aspect of this legislative project. In order for the Republic of Serbia to ratify a single contract must have a verified contract, on the long side, there must be a formal act drawn up together with the bill. We don't have that act. The second illegal store is next. The provisions of the Law on Public Debt are laid down in Article 16 of the Guarantee Act, the conditions, the procedure and the three positions set out the way and conditions of the guarantee. In paragraph 3, the following is said: The Republic may provide guarantees under Articles 1 and 2 of this article, in accordance with the law governing the Republic of Serbia's budget for the current year. When we look at the 2011 budget for the current year, in 2011, article 3 discusses guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for 2011, and exactly the basic users of these guarantees are: "World Bank", "Economic Bank for Reconstruction and Development", "European Investment Bank", then, individual banks, foreign governments and a total business bank, but there is no "Serbian Bank". Therefore, we do not have a budget foothold as required by the Public Debt Act. It's a material breach. It's a formal failure and this as such can't pass, but obviously it can pass and pass with you. I ask the question of the finance minister – what will happen when, besides three billion euros in guarantees from the Republic of Serbia to various international financial institutions, business banks and other financial institutions, which you listed in Article 3 of this law, you have now entered this guarantee, the next session will be with two or three guarantees, after who knows how much further – as far as it goes? It goes on forever. Breaking the rules goes on forever, but all of this has to stop at some point. But someone has to answer for that. I'm stressing again, the SRS doesn't mind doing all this if there's a good analysis. What will come of this guarantee? What are the benefits for the Republic of Serbia, etc? We are not entering the production aspect, the export aspect, the positive effects of this production, but the first condition is the legal condition. We create the legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia and we must look at everything we say. When we talk about giving guarantees and all that, as was said in the principle debate, I will refer to certain statements by the finance minister that eventually summed up all that the MPs were objecting or affirming about guarantees and borrowing, because the second item of the agenda was borrowing. Mrs Dragutinovic, you are speaking in the final word on public procurement and you say two sentences – one of those famous words or numbers that I have often heard and from you dear MPs is that a billion euros can be saved on public procurement and that this wasteful government spends a billion euros on public procurement, about 100 billion dinars to waste so much, and here we wouldn't actually have a deficit that there is some responsible government. For an ordinary citizen, that's what it stands for. From a financial point of view, that's what it stands for. However, public procurement regulations lie with your ministry. Where is the control role of the Republic's budget inspection? Spending public procurement, spending on public procurement controls budget inspections in one part. I ask you, how many interventions has the budget inspection done? Today we can see what's going on at the Colubary. There's no significant vital difference between Colubara and other public enterprises. Abuse is at every turn. Look what's problematic. The problem is that certain mentors sitting here and in this government, starting with foreign ambassadors, remember the previous British ambassador who openly said at an assembly in Belgrade that his services outside the official state institutions were, I read that statement, I don't have it here, but it is generally known, media reported it, according to their analysis, that they wash between 400m euros and 600m euros through public procurement. Vensan Deger, a senior representative of the European Commission, said it moves up to a billion euros. When we talk about abuses, we do not say that this is a billion which is surplus in the budget, but these are official public procurements and the problems that arise in the process of public procurement and control that is not available. That's what we're complaining about. Public procurement, especially public authorities, where direct and indirect budget users are not controlled. You know that very well. When we get an analysis of the work of the budget inspection, then we see that out of a thousand and some direct and indirect users who control determine violations and economic offences for only a few. It's not enough and it's out of control. That's why these deformities that foreign factors point to are emerging. They can't do that. In normal countries, such an ambassador's statement is not allowed. That personality is "persona non grata" and must be as a diplomatic representative of a foreign state removed from political life, and must leave if it is not right. In this case, he's right. They've been complaining to you for about a year. They openly point to the problem of public procurement. We adopted the innovative law in this congregation about a year and a half ago. In practice, we have tremendously many objections to administration in public procurement. The number of commissions carrying out public procurement in the control sense is insufficient in a first-degree or second-degree procedure, etc. What makes the current power to remove these deformities and to reach legal solutions, to speed up this process and not have these problems that we have with alienating state property? What did your ministry do in that direction? Almost nothing. We don't have any legal regulations to point that out. On the other hand, we'll get an analysis of the work of the budget inspection and see what you've done. Next, you say, I'll quote your sentence – we know that in this country it works one way or another about two million people. Official statistics are what we can believe, data from PIO or some other state institutions are that, somewhere, it's about 1,800,000. You say -- we're going to say roughly that half a million people work in the public sector and they're not fired. Look, that's the problem. Half a million people, in a small country like this, are funded from budgets that are now too small to finance that number. The SRS has been saying we've been saving for years. Let's make a rational administration, make public services meet the needs – current economic, economic, financial life. Without real analysis, and you don't have it, we're going to fund 500,000 people in vain and there's going to be funding in the budget for them. And for the unemployed, for single mothers and all other users who can't get into that position to finance from the budget won't be enough funds. You're saying that the guarantee received from the World Bank was far more criticised than the guarantee given to the "Serbian Bank". The guarantee received from the World Bank was not obtained to improve or improve the business climate. The point is to improve the business climate, etc. Furthermore, you point out that I know that none of you, and I don't like what we had to pay for this famous "satellite". It is true that about two billion and 800 million dinars were given for that purpose. We, dear MPs, have lost the dispute, and as a state, we must pay. It's not a dispute. We've lost the dispute. Who's to blame for this? The dispute lasts seven years... (President: Mr. Buha, I just want to focus a little attention on the subject, or the amendment. Well, that's the darkness. (President: Well, it's not, you're talking about satellites and so... Look, we're talking about a guarantee. We're talking and he gave us some guarantees there. The former federal government gave guarantees, participated, the dispute lasted seven years. We still don't know who did it. The state will pay for those funds. From the hungry mouths of the children, the disabled, the elderly, and so on, we'll separate the funds, give for this, and you don't know who's to blame! Well, then, you point out -- old foreign savings, etc., four billion euros. I ask you, who was responsible for the old foreign savings? (President: Well, you know what, your participation in the debate under the amendment comes down to the need to communicate with Madam Minister, which I cannot forbid at all. But it's not really space, or time, nor can I allow it. ) Look, I'm just quoting what the minister said and giving my comment, very constructive. (President: we have a debate on the amendment. Please focus on that content. ) As far as my amendment is concerned, the amendment has been rejected, as all other legal proposals and amendments to the SRS have been rejected. As far as the amendments are concerned, he's really unnecessary. There's no need for this law in this form. We don't have a foothold, we don't have a legal foothold for this law. We don't have a legal foothold. That's the point. One law cannot be found in the form, as proposed, without having it in the 2011 budget. We don't! We have here envisaged, on various grounds, over three billion euros, planned guarantees, and these guarantees are gone. We do not have the form of a contract between the users, i.e. entities, in which, among other things, the Serbian Assembly is one of the entities, because it provides guarantees. We don't have that form. What are we ratifying? We're ratifying a memo from the Ministry or a legal regulation in the form of a draft, a proposal, or I don't know what anymore, but we don't have anything to ratify. The Assembly ratifys the acts. We don't have the documents. It's just a memo. That's the point. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50455	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50456	I'll use that time of authorized representative. I have to admit at the beginning that this is a little bit illogical, since we are already boasting that we have become the largest exporter of arms and military equipment in Southeast Europe, and if we are already boasting about it, how and why is it that the very state is taking on the guarantee again? As far as we are concerned in the SRS Parliamentary Group, we have already made clear why this bill is unacceptable to us, the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the obligations of "Jugoimport SDPR", and from a legal point of view, and my colleague Buha has been speaking, agreeing with the Public Debt Act and the 2011 Budget Law, and from an economic point of view, of course, it is our story that has been going on for a long time, because these new 42m euros for a job that may not be realised, for a budget that is obviously calling for new loans to ease the deficit. After all, one basic question that might answer that of today's story is – why exactly SDPR? I guess the public is less familiar with the fact that, besides Jugoimport SDPR, which is the first exporter of arms and military equipment, there are about 80 such companies in our market. Apparently, "Jugoimport SDPR" needs a monopoly, that in the government of Serbia or the business public, some idea is that arms and military equipment exporters are trying to use already achieved business contacts of the SDPR to get involved in these affairs. It is also the problem that arises, so that, just for the sake of the timely elimination of competition, on the proposal of "Jugoimport SDPR" and submitted an initiative for legislation, all companies involved in the export of arms and military equipment are licensed to measure their success in the business over a period of time. Of course, this would establish direct or indirect control of the Ministry of Defence and State over all companies registered in such matters. This would practically ensure the control position of the SDPR or the monopoly positions. The public is also well-known for the position of Serbian radicals related to the monopoly position in any part of Serbia's economy. A small catch, which is behind all of this, obviously, we have witnessed lately and the frenetic advocacy of Serbia's entry into NATO, etc., although, to the truth of will, the support of citizens from day to day is smaller, but basically, as is the obvious word here, it is obviously a big deal. So, a huge business where, above all, American and European corporations end certain jobs. There's no big story. In the world today, military equipment and armed forces are spent around four billion dollars a day, not counting the largest arms buyer of the People's Republic of China. Since the bombing of Serbia and 1999, then, on September 11th, new growth and mass privatisation of the military industry began. She's mostly private now. So for all these military jobs, rules were made for private business. In other words, war and peace are decided by private corporations, and the states and governments are only there to give the public specific explanations and excuses. In addition to this data and what we were talking about at the very beginning, with this professional work, non-economic, could be related to the story of documents and conclusions adopted at a recent summit in Lisbon, it is called the "NAS Strategic Concept for the next ten years". For the sake of the public, let me just say that this concept is basically nothing new. He relies on what was quickly formed as early as 1999, during Serbia's bombing. However, this concept was attended by a special task force headed by Madlen Albright, who probably knows best what was going on in 1999. More important is the fact that there were some people in the task force who had nothing to do with military or political strategy, such as the leading figures from the largest insurance company - British Lloyd, oil giant Shela, etc. According to the concept, it is clear that NATO has become a global company. Now it's becoming more and more clear why these things are being done in our country, why the state is making an obligation to be guaranteed, etc. etc. As far as economic work is concerned, we have warned on time about the general economic situation in the state of Serbia. I don't know how many times we've mentioned that one of the basic problems was that foreign banks dominate Serbia, whose sense of local economies is much less than their own interests. Exactly, we are the most vulnerable, and that is exactly why, little, little, well, here in Parliament we ratify, or adopt various loans, loans, etc. What is for the SRS and perhaps a particularly black chapter in the overall economic policy is an agreement that the state has reached with the IMF. It was, in our opinion, merely a recognition of the defeat of economic policy. As for us, therefore, the priority should be no, of course, this borrowing, "loaning" and the rest, but, right now, the focus should be at a low employment rate, as it is in Serbia today, it is clear that such a situation is unsustainable, but for the correction of one such grey or blackness in which we are in Serbia should primarily have a responsible authority, which should create a long-term and realistic development strategy, and that in fact one part of the package is dedicated and resuscitating the existing situation. However, when there is a crisis, extorted moves are being made. All that is happening today in Serbia is the result of decade-long bad policy. So, even in the years before the economic crisis, she only accelerated that all of us, unfortunately, face reality, and the trouble is that, here, for ten, eleven years has been wasted, and that, truth be told, is a huge amount of money that went in and out of Serbia in previous years, and based on privatisation and other things, and based on credit and loans, obviously, in vain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50457	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Since we have completed the search of the single amendment, I conclude the review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Debt of the Republic of Serbia at SOCIETE GENERALE WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COUNCIL BANK (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and Dragan Stevanovic on the draft of the law. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50458	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has submitted this amendment and I suppose it is also expected that we have this kind of amendment intervention, because during the debate in principle, most of our objections concerned exactly what it said in Article 3 paragraph 3. There are other remarks, such as, say, she said, the first thing the National Assembly will do this year is increase debt, to replace the lack of money in the budget. When the Budget Law was adopted, we said the planned deficit was high, that expenditure was also planned on a high level. Everyone knew how much revenue could be counted on, although their inflow is always uncertain, but even so, most of them passed such a budget law. On the other hand, you have protected yourself by amending the Law on the Budgetary System, the part relating to fiscal responsibility and envisioned a reduction in the budget deficit, but not now, but gradually, by 2015. Therefore, the recommendations you receive from those whose opinion is important to you, try to implement. You're making laws, but to apply them later. Recently, we had the opportunity to hear a statement from the German ambassador who, speaking of the Serbian government, said they were passing some good laws, but that there are problems when they should be applied. It's an obvious problem in Serbia. Some things are done on purpose, so the obligations are delayed for later. That's the case with this bill of borrowing. The SRS Parliament Club and, in principle, the debate characterised him as extremely unfair. This time I won't use any rougher expressions, although it deserves a proposal like this. Why is this proposal harmful? Because with premeditation as early as November 2010, when the procedure for the public procurement of financial services was launched, the conditions – which will be the mandatory elements of the borrowing contract. One of them, and at the same time the most unfair, is the payment of the principal one time, at the end of the loan, after six years. So the money will be taken now and used to cover the budget deficit, to settle the commitments that come in. In the next six years, only the amount of interest will be paid. At the end of the next six years, in the first half of 2017, a total amount of $400m must suddenly be returned. Now the question is – why after six years? Did one of the experts predict that Serbia will be so economically powerful in 2017 that it will be able to finance normal functioning and that it will be able to pay off all the loans that will be charged at the same time? For many years, credits have been taken that have, by the way, a long period of time. When the time comes for all to start paying off their dues – will the state be able to function regularly, to pay off credit rates without, in doing so, paying off? Only in the course of this year, the Budget Law, Article 4, provides that the Republic of Serbia will grant loans of 409,3 billion dinars. We've repeated it several times. In order for any project to be implemented in Serbia, credit must be taken. None can be realised without additional borrowing. That's not the case just now, in terms of the economic crisis. It's repeated year after year. This happened at a time when there was something to privatize, but we know how this process was carried out, at which prices everything worth selling was sold. At the same time, it was sold out, credited, and unemployment increased. Taking into account all this, it is difficult to understand what economic experts are and what account they predicted that Serbia in 2017 expects prosperity, that there is so much good to be expected, that we will be able to finance the normal functioning of the state, to reconcile the obligations that are being created at the moment, as well as those that are already being created in the next few years, because the plan could already be envisaged in advance. In fact, the plan can be concluded under the Budget System Act. It envisions a gradual reduction in the budget deficit from what we now have to the target of up to 1% of GDP. If this law is to be respected, after 2015, the fiscal deficit will have to be that high, and since the debts will come at the expense of the issue – will the law be able to be respected or, like others, will it have to be broken? For this law, therefore, on duty, we say that the SRS misdemeanor is unfair and we believe that, if credit is already taken, at least there should be a slightly different dynamic payment. The reason for not accepting the amendment clearly acknowledges that there is a premeditation that money is being spent now, and the debt is being paid back once over six years, which is actually a period of beginning. However, this amendment had to be accepted and a slightly different payment dynamic applied. It is clear that as early as 2010, in November, when a public invitation to tender was opened, it was evident what the intention was, therefore, to take the money now and return 2017. I repeat, it's unfair and this amendment of ours should have been accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50459	Thank you. According to this amendment, MP Zoran Krasic also appeared. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50460	At first, I would have to remind myself that the SRS will not support the previous law either, and we are aware of the fact that you can hardly adopt this amendment, and even if you adopted it, nothing more would possibly change. This amendment, like those before, simply, should allow us to try to convince the parliamentary majority how wrong the concept is, access to the public finances problem. When I look here in the O.R., there's probably a small number of people who would remember what was going on with us, say, in economic relations in 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985. A real hit for a successful financial director of a company depends on how much he can drink and how capable he is of going to a bank, to secure an avalanche. Later, it was beating itself up with both primary emissions and so on. You remember Fikret Abdic at the time and those affairs. I get the impression that around now, the state is taking over the role of proving its success in public finances to be in debt. The enormous borrowing started at the end of 2000, when the Swiss government allowed SRJ to receive good positions through a single loan so that it could borrow credit. For the sake of those present, I must say that, practically from 1989 to 2001, no matter what they call it, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the state union, or the Republic of Serbia, simply there was no possibility that the state would be in charge. At the time, the main hit was the primary show, and everything was ironed through the primary show. Now the substitute for the primary show is the banking system in which everything is also ironed out. Ironing is done through a system that the state pays through its finances for something it does not need or which is not effective, nor rational, and the ways out of the crisis in public finances are in undefined privatisation. We still haven't received an answer that was the purpose of privatisation. Whether to get off the social enterprise "n." He's moving on to the Pera lodger company a.d.? Or was it the point of selling and putting the funds into the budget? Or was it the purpose of selling funds to make some investment funds, funds for development? It's just that it's all been divided into some thirds, and the result is very weak. It's hard for me to tell how black and weak it is, because I couldn't describe to anyone how hard it is than how each individual survives today. Then we come into a situation where when the debt resources of the World Bank, the IMF, are exhausted or limited by a system of European banks, then we have the only option to be in charge of commercial arrangements with business banks. So we've come into this situation that now there's a bank reporting as a lender. Of course, we cannot change the tender with this amendment. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. Of course, we can't change the treaty that's concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the bank that provides credit, but it's an opportunity to open the question of whether we can still come to laws like this and all that precedes the law? Does the National Assembly have to be so uninformed about all the work before such a law comes on the agenda? It is now the subject of the Law on Public Debt, the Law on the Budgetary System, probably the Rules of Procedure, as well as some other regulations. But I don't want to open it as a topic, because I know it can't be solved. There's no will to get rid of it. I will open the topic – is debt needed? Why do we actually owe ourselves 400 million? Why? What do we want to cover with that 400 million? That's the first question. Budget deficit, ma, budget deficit is an imaginary category. Within the budget deficit there are public procurements: both fuel and oil, and coffee, and "octavia" and "octavia" and tissues and papers and computers and engagement through the Student Association of People to work for two years, so, then, suddenly, it grows into a working relationship indefinitely. Everything can be subdued under the budget deficit. Under the budget deficit, a large number of para-state authorities, in a nation of miles called "agency." Both advisors and associates and state secretaries can be placed in the budget deficit. It can all be in the budget deficit, but it's a budget deficit for all citizens, and income for all those who get fat over the story, just an epic about the budget deficit. I agree, someone who doesn't have a mountaineer's license will jump, and he likes to climb up, to say it's been going on since 1991 when the SRS was in power, so in 1992, when the radicals were in power, so in 1993, when we were in power, and then in 1997. We've all been in power, it doesn't matter what there is and Veljko and Slavica, they've never been in power. All that can go through, but it can only pass in this room here, it can't go out of the hall, because people read the papers, watch a little, know who it was when they remember things. It's impossible for this epochal result that's happened since one minister made the surplus, remember, he's won the 'European Prize'. Look, we have no right to challenge the decorated now. Mrs Dragutinovic, don't take this as a personal criticism, and you are decorated as the most successful minister. Last year you were named a successful state official. That's how the media published it. I don't know if that's how you feel or if you don't feel, but I have to tell you what's been published in the paper. Now if all the successful should come to owe the state, then there's something wrong with the criteria on which to determine success. Probably the one who puts us in charge of drinking for five billion euros is the most successful. The one who owes us two million is less successful. So the one who owed us five billion will get the medal, and the one who put us in charge of two million to be ashamed, to regret and to see the next distribution be as successful in borrowing as possible. Now in this game, an illusion, and a very nice one radio station uses those statements, and it says, "The people have the right to believe, the people have the right to expect." He's been waiting for 10 years. He now expects what was said in 2004 to happen in five years. Okay, expectations, I don't mind good feelings and people's beliefs. I don't have that problem. Everyone can believe whatever they want and I don't challenge it, it's the legitimate right of every man, you know, like little children when they put their hands on their eyes, face and say, "No." There you go. It's not a problem. It's no problem that you're getting a lot of popularity in the people. That's no problem at all, that's a fact. You represent it as some real fact. I can't criticize that. I can't criticize someone who loves a party right now. Then when we go with these ads, he says – we will go to the EU on our terms. You remember that lady, she's used for advertising, now she's taking the road, along with Djelic, towards the EU. There's an ambis, people! What's the ambis? Much bigger than this 10-year-old ambis. We live in Europe, we live by European standards, we change European regulations every year 200 times. You remember when he was president of the National Assembly Predrag Markovic, 200 and some regulations and we met all the conditions. We have always met all possible conditions and live by European standards. It's not a problem, don't get me wrong, I just want to get the facts straight, that people get it. We're in Europe. This is how a billion agencies live in Europe, a scattered command, which would say, 'None who drinks or pays'. So in Europe, parliaments come before the final act, they are offered a bill on the borrowing of prosperous Belgium, the Netherlands, etc. I don't have any problems with their way of life. If they like it, I like it even better. We're really happy when someone's nice. We don't know what you're under pressure from Brussels. How can they not be ashamed to put pressure on you? Now they're sending you four stages of watchers to control what you're doing. Where do they get the right to be watched? You're theirs. Why don't they watch their own? They have no idea in Belgium they're watching their own. You have to be watched. Okay, that's some co-production with them. I couldn't agree more. Please, we're in charge. Sometimes the time will come to return. You remember, "Londonski" and "Paris Club" 20 years old and some years old, ten years of it being maltene frozen, in 2001 it sort of got settled. In what way? It's bad for me, but it got rid of it. We bear the consequences. There's been a succession, a bad one, the consequences we're having! There's been privatisation, there's bad, there's consequences. Free shares of a thousand euros took place! We said that there was none of it, so do not lie, except that you killed us. A few days or months ago, a man who swore it had to be so, he guarantees and says, "I had to lie to you so Tadic would be elected president." I ask you, how many years will it take for one of you to come out and say - you remember on February 23, 2011, that law was passed in the Assembly, and then we cheated on you? I know you're not gonna say it today, and there's no need to say it, but I'm sure in a few years, someone's gonna be bold enough to say that sentence. You remember Mr Ilic – pro-European, pro-European, pro-European, e, well, two months ago he said he was bringing money from abroad in the cabinet. No one called him for it. We talked earlier, but the man confessed, he had some worm working on him. His problem is not my problem. I say that all the time, all the time. So, no investors. We used to listen that investors couldn't wait to come to Serbia. We remember those six and a half billion that were on the border, just before the burning of this building, only to move Slobodan Milosevic, of course Slavica Djukić, Ivica Dačić, Veljko Odalović, Zoran Krasic, Vojislav Seselj. If only they could move and six and a half billion are at the border, coming in, settled! We have heard, there is none. To remind you, the only SRS was against the Ahtisaari-Charnomidin plan. He's been voted. The plan was based on the Kumanski Agreement and Resolution 1244. They were celebrating 1244, finally our friends in Kosovo and Metohija, the UN and NATO Pact, these are our friends, we will finish it. All right, your friends, you've ended up looking for a change of constitution to erase Kosovo and Metohija. That's a fact. So it's just a matter of time before someone tells us this is a bad job. We tell you in time - reduce some positions in the Republic of Serbia's budget and you will solve this problem. You say we can't. Are you sending a message that without this money there is no pension payment, is there no peace missions without this money, is there no plane transport to Brussels without this money, to defend that rebus he brought a few months ago, Phil? What do you need this money for? When you're in debt this much, you're creating an uninterrupted circle. What do you see in a continuous circle? You prove that we are a high-risk country and that these foreign business banks raise interest here and when they ask them – interest is much higher than inflation, they say: but high risks. What's high-risk evidence? Okay, gross social product, but you're in charge. The bankers will never lose. They are currently bright and dress in Serbia, not right now, but for years. They're holding our financial market. They're kind of wondering about everything and everything. Can you imagine what a national disgrace it is that with two mayors the minister and secretary of state argue over where the Slovenian firm will move the machines? Watch out, where the Slovenian firm will move the machine, you fight two regions. About a Slovenian machine to fight people in Serbia? Does that seem normal to you? How long can you go with that, not just borrowing, but that kind of humiliation? What's he doing with our economy? You can't provide one television commercial for a product from Raznja to Vranja. If you don't believe me, ask these people who do marketing on TV. They say we can't secure the commercial. I don't count these local TV shows, where Grandma Stojan's happy birthday, etc. No serious advertising, no advertising company, nothing to advertise with. I do, hard hearts, but I do. It's not my observation, that's what the people who do these jobs told me. I think it's best for this country, regardless of the budget, to have these laws withdrawn from the procedure, to be rebalanced to reduce those funds. I know you have a big problem with how to withdraw money from abroad, but you have to understand one thing: all these foreign currency assets that come in a very interesting way, they're not in the function of the economy, they're not in the function of the budget, they're in some virtual stability of the euro in this space. Ma, we are aware of the situation if the euro were released, 99% of Serbian citizens could not pay off the second loan war, because they are over-indebted, because it is a beautiful expectation from a few years ago, as far as lizing, housing loans, that they can pay it off by 10-15 years, it was realistic a few years ago, and today they have reduced their personal incomes to citizens. Some of them lost their jobs in the meantime. The question is, when you draw the line, is it plus, is it minus? Well, the West prefers its euro and its foreign exchanges to any citizen of this Republic. Now you're in power, tomorrow they'll invent someone else. All they care about is following Euro-Atlantic integration. Well, what they were yesterday, the day before yesterday, they don't care at all. They care about that direction to the West. What's going to happen, they don't care, they're so strong they can control the crisis whenever they want; in newspapers and on television, and on the border, and on customs, however, who's asking more in the state's organs, please. The government of our ministers ends up on that doorknob on the inside, but, on the outside of that doorknob, it's not what's agreed on. It's the capillary system. That capillary system is being controlled by someone else. Look at the people who are in the ministries, who talk about what pains they have with internal obstruction in their ministries. If they want to do what's best, they come across the wall. I don't want to call anyone, but I know Mrs. Dragutinovic has these problems. Evidence for these problems that the secretary of state shows up past the minister, so it's a scandal, so it's a mess. Who's the Secretary of State? The one who cursed two years ago at a meeting of the Finance Committee. The rest was recorded, so he had to apologize. It doesn't matter, either, but there's no compass here. We don't know what it's worth when we go with the citizens to talk. What's a citizen supposed to believe? In nice commercials, "start for the property." Please, the state is a complicated thing, a serious thing, a serious thing to do, but anyone who does the state's work must love Serbia, first of all, and then, secondly, the profession, the ability, and this third and fourth things. And, no, the Brussels people love him, they support him, they praise him here, they give him some medals, they walk them there in some conferences, they show them as a good example that the European Union has done something about us. What's that done with this policy, people? What's done?- I'm sorry. See what a pleasure or dissatisfaction is in people. The fact that people are not oriented in time and space is also known for what. When he hits those poor women, they see people. They can find salvation in anything. We want a little nicer Serbia, but every day a little nicer to be, than it was yesterday, but we don't see that the government wants it, the government doesn't see people. The government sees a questionnaire, a rebus, praises, painting, recording, DVD, CD. That's why we don't want to vote for these laws that only deepen the crisis and increase borrowing. I know, you'll find a word to answer me. Go, no problem, you can kick us out. Two years ago, you kicked us out of the assembly. Was there anything better? Nothing was better. You can punish us. I know you can punish us. Will it be better for the citizens? He won't! We can be mad at each other for as long as we want, but is something good, is there a way we should go, that there's no more thorns? It's a small road, but let's break through, spread it. I'm sorry I may have extended a little bit. If I insulted someone, I didn't do it on purpose. I'm sorry. Please, everyone, come on, Serbia is one. We shouldn't lose her. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50461	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50462	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully monitored the presentation of the previous speaker for 25 minutes. I didn't realize what amendment he was talking about, and I didn't realize what messages and lessons he was trying to send to the voters, whether he was talking to his party leader, whether he was talking or wrongly, so he thought he was at the Central Country Administration session, or maybe he thought he was in his bedroom, talking to himself, and there was no one else to hear him. I heard what he was saying very carefully, and his words were in vain at the end of the exhibition, because I understood that he was criticising the borrowing, criticising the intentions of the Republic of Serbia to provide bank guarantees for a job that would work "Yugoimport SDPR". I noticed that he wasn't at the final presentation of the finance minister in this room, when she explained to him why the money from this loan would be intended. You know, sometimes in elementary schools for bad students, extra classes were organized. We don't have time here to organize an extra class for those who aren't able to remember what the ministers say from this pay phone, but I have an obligation for the sake of truth and for the sake of the citizens of this country, who remember maybe much better and much more than I do, to respond to some postulates and some of the thesis we heard in the previous presentation. Here we accuse ourselves of sometimes not telling the truth and hiding the truth from the voters. We've never hidden the truth from the citizens of this country. We never, for example, organized fireworks in Kruševec and said - we won the NATO Pact, here's fireworks. My predecessor's party did it, organized it. No DS leader has ever come out and said -- I am proud to be called the greatest manipulator of the Serbian political scene. I know a man who proudly declares that he is happy, proud that the Serbian public remembers him as the greatest manipulator in Serbia's political scene. I was never a minister, and I never took part in the executive government, but I know some who had the chance, and their opportunity for most Serbian citizens was a problem. I know some who have had the opportunity to show their luxuriant talent in the area of finance and abuse of trust funds as their effect at the end of their term. I know some who have proven themselves to be ministers and I know who have and how they have proven themselves to be ministers. The public with their elbows to their elbows found them in a jam jar, licking their hands and fingers, so when they were caught, they said, "You can't make a jam without licking your fingers." I know of some who and how they have entrusted this country, but not for the benefit of the citizens of this country, not for the benefit of the citizens of this country, not for the economy of this country to work, but to print party bulletins, party books. I know some who took money from the state register, so a company of tax auditors failed to determine how much they facilitated the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I also know some who are asking how, you said there wouldn't be inflation when you came to power, and then inflation was 30, then 130%, boldly said -- well, it's like having a hundred marks in your pocket, so someone takes 30 from you, and you're left with 70. Now you're the same here giving us moral lessons, lectures. They're even trying, and they're not ashamed of having us lectured here from the basics of the economy, from the political economy. I really don't think this highly creative exposure is worth hearing just here in this home. You go to college, and you go to economic college, and you get some other economic institutes, and you show your luxury talent there and you say, "We, all this knowledge we have, it's amazing." I'm really surprised someone didn't give you the Nobel Prize for Economics. This exposure, this knowledge, deserves not the trust of the citizens of Serbia, but of the entire planet. However, given that neither I nor the citizens of Serbia can convince you of the truth of your claims, it would be best for you to change the people, since you cannot change me, you choose me, you change the people well and tell the people that what you are saying here in the Serbian Parliament and what you do when you have the opportunity, obviously does not correspond to each other, because it is obvious that you have two doctrines and two morals, one doctrine and one morality that you adhere to when you preach, and another doctrine and another morality that you adhere to when you exercise power. Your time for most citizens of this country has been a storm. Please don't invite us to that time, but really believe in your closing sentence that you want good to this country. If you have offended someone by your exposure, well, above all, you have offended the sound logic of Serbian citizens, you have offended us who have barely survived your time. Finally, I can only tell you that I didn't understand what part of the amendments submitted was your exposure, because these amendments say this way: "In Article 3 paragraph 1 point 3" is replaced by "3) the period of payment of the loan of 72 months" and "In item 2 "30" is replaced by "15". These are the amendments that have been submitted. "Article 6 paragraph 2 is amended and reads – The right to recover funds under Article 1 of this Article will be fulfilled in accordance with the provisions of the Public Debt Act." With all my effort, with all my intellectual effort and effort, with the Faculty of Agriculture completed – the direction of livestock farming, I did not understand you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50463	Anyone else in this amendment want a word and please focus our attention on the content of the amendment? (No) (National Ambassador Zoran Krasic, from the post: Replica. You have the right to a replica, but I don't think there's much point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50464	Mrs. Dejanovic, I announced, because I know there is some lawfulness. At first I said there are those who don't have a mountaineer's license and they like to climb. A man recognized himself and answered, but that's not the problem. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, I have no intention of defending any more SPS, you, Slobodan Milosevic, for attacks like this, it is your coalition partner, so make arrangements with him, but I would ask you one thing, that all your potentials, opportunities as president of the National Assembly, take advantage of and conduct a detailed investigation, can Veljko help, too, whether I am responsible, guilty, whether I have any stains, whether something is being burdened me from time to time, is being respected in this room, and it has started since May 2001 through newspapers. That's when they invented my own brother. I assume you know I'm an only child. That's the kitchen. I know that kitchen where it comes from, why it comes from, etc. Please, for the sake of the public, because I do not intend to justify myself to anyone, I have never in my life justified myself to anyone, especially when there is no driver's license, but I would ask you to take advantage of your potentials and possibilities, inform all MPs that once and for all, you will break up with that story. I'm just one little only child, I don't have my own brother or my own sister. If I'm guilty of anything, say what I'm guilty of, but notify the entire public officially, don't do this with the insinuations that are slow to hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50465	Mr. Krasic, I didn't understand the essence of the replica you were looking for. I couldn't see myself as an authority of investigation, and I couldn't even conduct an investigation, and I couldn't even inform you, but I understand your need to join you in this House here, not by fully joining you, but by analysing the past, but by working on the Rules of Procedure, or by working on a agenda that is current that day, and I fully support you there. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must, indeed, also as an authorised representative to refer to this small-time discussion where DS MP, the party that said we would take a step forward, in the debate in the morning, gave a lesson that he listened well to Mr Krasic for 25 minutes, who rebelled against a loan related to "Jugoimport SDPR". Mr Milivojevic, let me remind you, the debate on this loan or guarantee was closed about 40 minutes ago, so if you were listening, I don't know what you are and who you were listening to. However, Zoran Krasic did not speak a single word about the loan, namely the guarantee or the counter-guarantee, Mr Krasic is talking about the new debt of the state of Serbia for $400m, and he is speaking very argumentatively and speaking from a political point of view, asking answers to questions about where we will spend this money. I know that for you, $400 million is as much a burden on the state as 400 dinars, and if you've shown something and manifested it for the last 10 years, then that's it. You can jump to the '90s as much as you want, but the country you inherited was three times as much in charge as it is today, for the same period as you were in power, as you were in the '90s. As far as these amendments are concerned, Mrs Dragutinovic, that the reasons for their refusal were different, I would really have doubted that we suggested something bad, but what you wrote in the arguments really holds us in the belief that you share our position in relation to what we have suggested. These arguments are more than formal. I'll even be free to say you didn't write them or know what they said. Before I touch this amendment on Article 4, I must also refer to your final word in the previous debate in particular. You said a few things that you really don't or don't mean or think. If you think so, we're convinced it's not good. I have to call Lazar Pachu, too, but for a very reason, because of the deficit. You said all his budgets were deficited. That's true, but you didn't say that Lazar Patch was funded by the Balkan and part of the world war, and you didn't say that the dinar was in the rank of the French franc at the time, you just forgot to tell us. Analyze where the money is today, what strength it has and what we have financed with the deficit Serbia has. It's an essential question of the SRS. We're not just asking if we should or shouldn't be in debt. If we're in debt, we're asking what is the structure of our debt and what is the structure of our deficit. You know very well what it is. You don't have the political freedom to answer that. We get answers that objectively do not match what is real and life in Serbia. In the final word, you could tell us everything, but you couldn't tell us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the IMF, is running a restrictive policy. Restrictive policy, with this kind of public spending, you know very well that you don't lead. If you think that restrictive policy is that you have collected the courage to tell the educators – we can no longer increase, or some other unions that there is no increase in this year, or you have increased wages and pensions to only 1%, if you tell us and assure us that it is a restrictive policy, then, I don't know what is not a restrictive policy. In January of the month, Mrs Dragutinovic, of all the money spent in the budget, fifty billion, only 300 and some million dinars spent on capital expenditures, everything else is public spending and expenditure, from social contributions, salaries, penals and penalties, etc. If you convince us to run a restrictive policy, you who pay at an annual level three billion penals and fines from the Republic of Serbia's budget for an inefficient and irresponsible state, then we do not know what a restrictive policy is or what is not a restrictive policy. What you also said, and this is also about these arguments, and about Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic's amendment, but also about this amendment of mine, you may have said a little with a mockery that the students of the economy know how money is being spent or how the money (that's what we've recorded) that we're withdrawing. Yes, it is, that's what you said. Get a stenogram. Now I ask you, and when did the SRS say that money is not being spent in accordance with the Budget Law? We never said. All these ministers that DRI detected as irresponsible and unconscious ministers spent money in accordance with the Budget Law. You are one of the ministers who said that in Serbia the discretionary expenditures of ministers do not amount much to spending. We can agree to that. Look at how little money they've done to the ministers and your colleagues in the government, and it's only discovered in part of the total expenditure on taxpayers' money. Imagine that DRI worked full capacity, that 80% of the budget was seen as a practice in developed countries or that, for God's sake, they entered public enterprises, so that it doesn't have to be a journalist of one television to be an investigative body and a state prosecutor and everything else, and that we don't have to be informed from television that and how many robberies in the public sector, but that the state shows developed mechanisms to protect itself and that the activities of the state media are just reporting. And yet to empower that television house to arrest and everything will be great, to wash your hands and not have to touch some political close people, not personally close to you, but to the government and politics that is in force today in the Republic of Serbia. We were talking about debts and debt heights. Is it necessary for Serbia to take $400m and we have never disputed the possibility of funding deficits and borrowings, but through our amendment, we have made ours a concrete proposal on how to spend $400m money. I am deeply convinced that there is nothing in any of the three positions in this proposal that is opposed to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 or any other law. And if you had written in the explanation – it does not fit the amendment into our political concept, we could accept it, but to convince us of what you wrote is really not necessary. Then I'll read one thing at a time and tell me what's contrary to the Budget Law. You wrote – the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is Article 2. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that funds to finance the budget deficit are provided among other things from the loan. We didn't ask not to take credit. We've wiped out members of the law. Yes, withdraw a $400m loan under unfavourable conditions, while Article 3 provides for the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia in business banks and that's fine. Also, we asked you why you asked for a cumulative return of $400 million and we didn't get an answer for that. For the programme support of the budget in different currencies, with the guarantee of the World Bank, we did not dispute. We didn't slow anything down. Our amendment didn't ask for anything to change in that sense, but we asked you, by our amendment, that the funds that you will withdraw from the loan, that part that you will spend on the budget deficit, not on refinanced unfavourable loans, you spend on the local, regional, national level for travel or municipal infrastructure. And you can't convince me that you don't have that option through the Budget Law. Is it possible that the state of Serbia does not co-finance such projects or are you in trouble now? There is no more in the government of those who shared that money as they wished: based on political sympathy, inclination, weakness or commitment. Well, in one school where one government party has an interest you have three students and a fully renovated school, and that could have been three years, and here it is, where it's come from. It has come to this point that you are not talking to each other in government, and we MPs sitting in this House are supposed to believe that in such an atmosphere in the government that rational decisions will be made to spend $400 million. We won't believe you. For the sake of the public and my fellow MPs, I will read what we have suggested. ''Part of the funds secured from loans to be financed by the budget deficit will be used exclusively for capital spending. The capital consumption referred to in Article 2 shall mean the revitalisation of local, regional and national projects of municipal and road infrastructure. ''What is most important now, where we wanted to give importance to this body as well, let this body indeed show its control function, we proposed: ''The criteria for running and selecting projects from the previous position, with a special decision to define the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law. '"Can anyone tell me what's wrong here? What is wrong with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? What is here contrary to the sustainable character of development? Mrs Dragutinović, what is here contrary to the new growth model that you promote in public? Absolutely nothing. Do you have any idea what projects are being implemented through local self-government? What does the state of Serbia co-finance or fully finance? I'm deeply convinced you have no idea. Do you know what all the money is spent on? There is no more competent body in Serbia that could create a better and better-quality screening that the project will finance. On a specific case at regional level, I'll explain it to you and suggest it. Perhaps until the end of the debate and change your mind and accept this amendment. We are deeply convinced that everyone in the Assembly would accept on a proposal from the SRS together to form a body or commission that will control any public procurement procedure that will have to be implemented to spend this money. That money, Mrs Dragutinovic, would not go into the pockets of those who will take it out of Serbia tomorrow. The money would be paid for by workers, entered into firms, so that through a real and real way, it would be spent from workers' salaries, and from businesses, it would be spent in Serbia. That makes sense, not withdraw the loan and give it to the people. How he's gonna get those birds back know the ten-year practice you're changing now. If this logic was imposed by the SRS in 2001 and so on, do you know where we'd be today? We'd all be looking for partners today. In the lobby, we would not whine and agree to painful political compromises to look kindly at us. We wouldn't be here any more, if I wasn't expressing myself in this home, giving lessons in front of these microphones and on this carpet. Obviously, there is no political will for things to start changing in Serbia. It's obvious it doesn't exist. It's 41% against GDP. You've limited us to 45%. Mrs Dragutinović, we will not say – we are a high-indebted state. No, we're not, but we're mismanaging our public debt. It's not fiscal responsibility to keep him within 45%. We increased it by a little over a year by 10%, and we were in an invisible situation when the debt was 31%, not 41%. You know why? Because for this amount of debt, we had neither valuable nor high-quality infrastructure. We've got a bad private sector! We have huge regional differences! We have an ageing population! What about the state's activity? Can we boast with her? What is the state of public enterprises, whose debts are almost unspeakable? Monthly, only "Serbigas" pays three million euros in interest and has reached obligations. A public company that we don't talk about through this data and figures, which is the obligation of the state. Let's not talk to the JAT, about the Colabars, about some other Colabars and so on. Look, we're not irrational. France is a high-indebted state. When in France you take both sides and make a relationship, France is the fifth country by fortune in the world. France has made roads for its debt, made electricity infrastructure, developed a nuclear programme, invested in science, etc., etc. What did we do? What did we finance? Who have we funded in the last ten years? When I tell me, I mean power. It's easy for some people to laugh. It doesn't touch them. They don't care. They wasted ten years on the people, and you today, neither guilty nor debtor, perhaps in one part, suffer all this, but you are chosen. What did we want, Mrs. Dragutinović? No matter what level, again, thanks to irresponsible and incompetent authorities, administrative capacities, local self-government, as it is, we believe that in a bar in every other local self-government, there is a project that you can finance from these pairs. There is no will, but you raise your hands, Mrs Dragutinović, and we'll see each other in a year. I know it's hard for you, but what can I do for you? There are projects that are serious and that need to be financed, apropo of what the government stands for, at least declared. In a way, I will be a local patriot and look back at southern Serbia. Mrs Dragutinovic, there is a 10m-euro project in southern Serbia. It refers to an area declared by the State as a national interest. A project whose realisation would employ who knows how many people, from two districts, from five municipalities, employed operatives, ordinary workforce, etc. etc. Of course, the project refers to "Vasino Lake." She's willing to file everything just to be presented to the government, so the government shows the will to fund it, because it's a sustainable character project. Because in a period, maybe not in six years, but with a successful realization in seven, eight or ten years, that project will start returning money or at least part of the funds that you will withdraw, and in five or six years you will not think about them at all. There may be conditions for that part of the funds to be returned or to participate in cumulative debt service. I'm convinced, despite not having a good relationship and communicating with local leadership, that, let's say, you can and should talk about something like that in the government, instead of fighting between yourself and accusing each other of what informal centres are like, who's guilty and who's not guilty, who's good and who's not good, to take and to deal with serious and useful things for the state and its citizens. That you don't talk about decentralisation and regionalization, and at the same time, regional differences from day to day are getting bigger and bigger. We believe that the amendment of the SRS would be useful to accept. If you appreciate it's not useful, you can't say it would cause damage. It has no damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Over time, you've shown whether it's political pressures, whether it's your political weaknesses or whether it's your political will, the SRS, on the one hand, it's not interested at all, and on the other hand, it doesn't matter to the public at all. They're in harm's way, they're in trouble. They don't see the perspective with you. They believe that you are not capable of taking steps along with you in the future. Or accept this, if not, may God help you and us in the coming years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50467	MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50468	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, my colleague Stevanovic's amendment reflects the essence of our policy. The formula used in the amendment is more than accurate because it shows that we are against organized waste. We believe that a country that is in an economic situation such as ours must have priorities in the social, health and education areas, not meet some criteria that are not respected in the EU, which looks ideal and in which there are no irregularities in relation to the aquimuner. Of course, it's fiction and so it's not real. We see that this loan has been taken at about 300m euros to cover the budget deficit. Given your past statements and general government policy, it is taken to respect some imaginary goal from the Stability Pact, which is not respected in the EU either, out of 3% of the budget deficit in a country that has major problems. I say again, in education, in health care and in all other areas. I'm sure you know that back in 2003, when it started, so to speak, that the euro zone worked, that France and Germany did not exactly respect that 3% percentage. I don't see any reason why this here would be carried out rigorously, and at the expense of social peace, at the cost of jeopardizing those whose budget assistance is most needed. I will give you a concrete example of the practice that will show how good this amendment is by my colleague Stevanović, which shows what a policy, which has nothing to do with reality, but with this declaration of compliance with the aquimuner, which is currently not respected in the EU, more specifically, in two main EU countries – Germany and France. Surely you know and have read in our media scandalous data, that the Republic Health Insurance Institute, led by Mr. Aleksandar Vuksanovic, no longer wants to finance the Institute of experimental phonetics and pathology of speech. More specifically, 200 children seeking help and needing help in development, and this is a 140,000-euro figure per year. On the other hand, the budget envisions increasing expenditure for the Government of Serbia's 1m-euro EU accession office. What does that mean? A million euros is more important to increase Euroburocracy, Brussels bureaucracy in the Republic of Serbia, than 200 children on the list of this Institute for experimental phonetics and pathology of speech. As we learned in the SRS, Mr. Aleksandar Vuksanovic did not even have the authority to accept a parent delegation. It's a scandal. It's so arrogant and sassy, I don't have a word. I believe that this is completely contrary to the phrases of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it is built here as a social state, a society of the future that enters the EU, etc. It's a shame, to say the least. I really don't have any words. On the other hand, loans are taken which are unfavourable and you know that they are under the patronage of the World Bank, just under the patronage of those institutions whose former representative Simon Grey also demanded that health expenses be reduced, that education expenses be reduced. And as a result of this blatant behavior by the director of the Republic Health Insurance Office, Mr. Alexander Vuksanovic, it is. So, one economic policy, social policy and every other one that is under the "World Bank", the IMF and the EU that does not care about citizens, about social needs, but about some imaginary figures of 3% of the budget deficit, and I repeat, it is not exactly in the EU and the most significant countries, such as Germany and France. The objective of this amendment is, above all, to stop wastefulness, to bring economic policy into line with the real needs of our citizens who need help most, therefore, children, students, pensioners and all those who are hit by the so-called EU or Brussels policy. So keep in mind that this phrase about acquimuner, which appears in the bill, is still contrary to reality. We appeal, which is why this amendment has been submitted, to break up with one dogma, with blind obedience and the fulfillment of a policy that has, in a neoliberal sense, failed from the United States to the EU and beyond. Either you will convince me that the euro is not a political project and that the euro has a future, or in that sense you will convince me that the economies of Germany and Greece are something that matches, something that is the same? If you convince me that it is, and I respect you and I think you are a respected professor of economics, then we will say that this amendment is contrary to reality. But unfortunately, I think this time, as before, the truth is on our side. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50469	Do any of the MPs want to speak according to the amendment? (No) Mr. Buha wants a word. Here you go. You have 28 and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50470	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, this is a very interesting topic and we need to talk about it, because it is current for both the opposition and the government. In fact, we are in an extraordinary session today and we see by the importance of the points proposed by the authorities what is most important right now. The most important thing is to take credit, to be in debt, because our finances are empty. It is far more important, Mrs Dragutinovic, that we have talked here today about the real situation in the economy, in the area of finance, to build a system, what the EU tells you, sustainable finance, real finance. Let's see what's up with the tax and fiscal policy. We're going in part-time, here, we're going to have a regular session of two amendments to the law, but we don't have a single fiscal policy. We don't have all the preconditions you know very well, which you won't present and present here. That's why we have to be in debt. Once again, I must point out that the SRS is asking you to do it and ask for – savings, the strictest savings! When I pointed out to you in principle the need for savings and pointed to Greece, I pointed to Greece only because it came to such financial and economic difficult and crisis conditions of injury, work and life, and pointed out what it would do in the annual period and four years, as well as what stabilisation measures and austerity measures it does in 2011 and 2014, you said – don't talk to me about Greece. But now, I'm going to have the information that's been taken out here, and we can talk about Greece one way or the other, but here, (I know them by heart, that I'm not looking for now) the average profit is 1,150 euros. Their exports are 28, I think, billions of euros. We have 7.5 billion euros in exports in 2010. Four times higher, and about 1.5 of the population in Greece. Let only these two parameters show us where we really are, and those who have far greater salaries and far more exports, have a far larger gross social product per capita, etc., other benefits far more favourable than we, they save, and we do not have active austerity measures in this budget, and we ask you, because our finances are not sustainable. That's what the EU tells you, that's what the IMF tells you, the World Bank, etc. You are the only one who considers that the current government considers our finances to be sustainable. And how sustainable, when you say it yourself, you said in this assembly on several occasions – we can only solve budget deficits in two ways: loans and privatisation. Have you ever stated in your textbooks what you said in this assembly, that these are the only elements of the resolution of the deficit in the budget? You have a far greater spectrum of possibilities. Why don't you use them here? You can't do that. This government can't do that. You're involved in coalition non-discipline relations, etc. It all culminates in deficits; budget deficits, current payments deficits, deficits in the PIO fund, and so on. I'll read to you here how suspicious it looks when you in Article 2 of the 2011 budget say you'll need funding to finance the budget deficit, well, in the amount of 93 billion, then, for the financing of a debt of 410 billion, four billion euros, for the purchase of a financial asset of 30 billion, etc., and then you say that you will do so through the loan security of 130 billion, or about a billion and 200 million. Here, one of the tranches of the settlement and the cover of the deficit through the credit lines is this loan. I've expressed the SRS' position and we talk all the time, without saving, there's no state. The economy has been brought to the brink. And you know for a fact that the IMF, if it wasn't, you came out with certain data, denied that it was 400,000 fired workers, what the IMF said. Is it real or isn't it? In your final speech, you said by these two laws in principle that you believed official statistics. She says it's, like, 30. I'll read it here, don't frown, I've got this information right here. You trust official statistics. Our official statistics say it's about 30,000 workers who lost their jobs. Can we trust all that? Are you convinced of any other information? We need to look at the real situation. We can't hide behind the data that we have from the IMF. If what the IMF said does not exist, the IMF must leave Serbia as an international financial institution, because it has been expelled from all countries where it was present. She left Russia, left Ukraine, left Argentina. She's out! You here in this bill say this loan is granted with the "World Bank" guarantee. Where's the guarantee? It's a World Bank guarantee. Where is the formal contract between Serbia, the creditor bank and the World Bank? We don't have it. What does that guarantee say? You can't do that. We're ratifying something here by heart, based on good words. The "World Bank" guarantee, if not supported by an adequate legal act, that's a nice word or a bad word. On the one hand, we have the IMF, which says that 400,000 workers were fired during the crisis period, even they, I did not read in the original of their statement, but were transferred by representatives of unions, individual ministers, individuals who participated in these talks, mentioned the figure from the fourth month of 2008, when election activities started, by 31 December 2010, that 500,000 workers on the black market and in the public sector and in the economy and non-economics. What's the truth now? But the truth is, the budget is empty. You yourself know that from the moment your government was formed in the cost-effective side of the budget for these three and a half years, so for 2011, more than 200 billion euros. The spending side's increase is about 200 billion, i.e. nearly two billion euros. From what means? Where's that accumulation? Where's your income? Where is this profit that can settle this growing expenditure in the budget? They're gone! It must be replaced either by privatisation or credit, as you speak here. How far does that go? I have to read the parallel practice here one more time. If Greece is a bad example, here, let's go to Great Britain, with a serious procedure, in serious cuts and serious savings – from 2011 to 2015, the planned savings through the budget will be 135 billion euros; the downturn from 11%, although the indicators say, and I came to this data, that over 12.5%, is at 2.1%. Look, what's the turn? But they follow, not only to normically predict, but to monitor, analyze and have a set of measures. Here, look what he's gonna do. It'll increase VAT from 17% to 20%. They go with extra taxes on property, but not property like you do here, proportionally, but progressive taxation. Whoever has more property will pay more. He who earns more will gain more. Whoever's making more traffic, he'll give more through the VAT. With a serious social scale. Now I'm going to tell you just one example, he's very instructive and the public needs to know, I've talked to a man. It's about a refugee who came to England in 2001, getting social aid there. In the 12th month of this year, he received social assistance by 40 euros. I wonder why now that no increase is foreseen, no one has notified them, etc. When he went to that social office, they told him – this year was far colder than the average year. According to some regulation, you get more than 40 euros compared to the number of household members. You see how much it's a social state, how much it takes care of its citizen. At the same time, he is a Serbian citizen. Look what social policy they have. Germany, etc., that we are not now talking about individual countries and various savings. This country must save, that we understand each other. Let's not talk about catastrophic privatisation now, etc. What else do we have left now in the income sense of what we can add? Through taxes, we can come up with far higher incomes, but you haven't done a fiscal policy analysis. You didn't do it. You advocated half a year ago the story of going to tax the "of Shore" company because President Tadic said so. And you've said with a few statements that they're going to start making laws that they're going to tax, and then it's all gone. You only once explained why you didn't get into it. We don't have the human capacity to tax. The state administration employs 30,000, and 500 000 are funded in the administration, and you among those 500 thousand people in the state administration, you did not find in the state apparatus a dozen people who would deal with the problem of monitoring incomes and taxing the "of a brother-in-law" company. Also, you are inadequately following through the tax administration, which is in your jurisdiction, the entire system of income, trade, expenditure, etc. Your tax administration is almost out of order. I talked to people and they told me openly. (Employees earn: that's right! This country protects the tycoons more than it protects us in the state administration. And all the things we do seriously, wherever we seal the interventions of Pera, Janko, Marco, etc.(Employees earn again: that's right! We're pulling out of it. I don't want to worry about my children and my destiny. It's the story of the tax inspectors. They see how he got hurt, how he got hurt, etc. Their lives are at stake. For what? Because there's no state behind it. And why isn't there a state? Because you did not make adequate legislation to tax revenue accordingly, on the other hand that they are protected, and that the entire state apparatus stands in the protection of that individual who, as an inspector, appears in the company. Rather, the owners of these companies, tycoons and similar ones are protected than the workers of the state administration are protected. Now, these are problems, both objective and subjective. You as finance minister must be innovative in terms of those obligations you have in the Ministry Act, in the section relating to the Ministry of Finance. You must protect the state's interests. You will protect them by having to look at the overall structure of income, expenditure, all that you think is excess, you will suggest, you will be innovating the revenue-cost side and in this way there will be savings that are necessary for this country. Without it, we don't have a country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50471	The word is Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50472	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you for not having any harsh words, as one MP said. You'll allow me to take this opportunity to look back at some of your comments and criticisms. Of course, I'll try to focus on the amendments, but I'll be free enough to look back at some of the economic concepts that are mentioned here. Therefore, it is not true that the National Assembly adopts laws that are all with a delayed fact. You all know very well that the Budgetary System Act, adopted at the end of last year, applies to the 2011 budget. And as we adopted the 2010 budget, which allowed a deficit of 4.8% of the social product, so with this 2011 budget, we adopted a budget that means a smaller deficit, 4.1% of the social product. So we apply the law in 2011. There has been criticism that the guarantee given to the Serbian Bank for 45m euros does not have its legal basis. I know that the MP knows well that all MPs here know that there is a legal basis. The amount of guarantee was set in two members of the 2011 Budget Law. So, not only to Article 2 but also to a member, I think, 33, where the government is given flexibility to initiate a guarantee procedure for projects of particular importance, and then to state what are the purposes, among other things, of stimulating exports, but also of financial stability, and of course to minimise the negative consequences of major disasters. Therefore, this particular member gives a legal basis. Whether the amount of the guarantee is large or small, we can discuss it, but I want to say again, as I said in defence of the Budget Law, that the very procedure of borrowing is quite long, that by respecting strict procedure you cannot be in charge of a period shorter than four months, and on average the entire procedure lasts at least eight to nine months. If we were to be fair when we analyze the data, and watch, let's say, the budgets of three or four years ago, we'd see the same guarantees coming through. So, on average, the amount we say is the maximum amount for guarantees that the government can grant is 30 percent for one year. Is the Ministry of Finance responsible for public procurement? Since 2003, since the application of the Public Procurement Act, all public procurements carried out at the level of all levels of the state, plus public enterprises, of course, including local self-government, have been very carefully registered at the Public Procurement Administration. Therefore, the finance ministry can be responsible for public procurement to the finance ministry. Also, it is undeniable that there is a budget inspection, but it is undeniable that there is an internal audit, and internal audit is the first level of control that within a certain ministry is concerned that public procurement is carried out under the law. If we compare the capacity of the budgetary inspection and the capacity of the DRI, therefore, the capacity of 15 people in the budgetary inspection, the capacity of DRI 150 people, the fact is that with the formation of the DRI and the beginning of its work it actually reduces the importance of the budgetary inspection and, naturally, an independent audit institution should see whether it is being spent in accordance with the law. I want to remind once again of the DRI findings, so we all know well, once a year, that the Public Procurement Administration, which is not normally part of the Ministry of Finance, is an independent state body, therefore, that administration, contains all the data and is once a year doing a public procurement report. All that is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance are direct budget users, so they are publicly purchasing 22 billion dinars. You know that last year's budget was 760, it's public procurement through the public procurement of 22 billion dinars. The state auditor found irregularities worth 300 million dinars. So 1.5% of public procurement, not to mention how far the total budget of the Republic of Serbia has gone. Someone challenged the possibility at all, said it was a bad intention, that the entire payment of one loan, which is supported by the "World Bank" guarantee, would only be paid back in one year. I thought you had more faith in the state and the Public Debt Administration and there must be some very good reason why it's done. And the reason is this: as you know in 2016, the last debt war on the basis of the old foreign currency savings returns. And that's why it was chosen on purpose in 2017 to pay back this debt, because the values are approximately the same. One war of old foreign savings, or a whole loan taken from business banks, which is supported by the "World Bank" guarantee. So, simply, motive is no honesty or dishonesty, motive is liquidity management and public debt. Of course, there were a lot of comments about different concepts. I've talked about them many times, I feel the need to look back once more. Therefore, the purpose of privatisation is to increase the efficiency of businesses, to expose companies to competition and private companies are more efficient than public enterprises, not only in Serbia but everywhere, and we can also make analogy with us, as owners of some apartments, as we treat our own apartment, and as we treat common halls. Therefore, a different feeling and a different privateer takes care of his own, rather than something that isn't his. Who needs to be in charge? Well, Kuwait isn't, I agree. There are examples of non-indebted countries, but it is the role of the financial sector, I hope that no one argues that the financial sector should exist, to provide credit to good clients, and the state is a good client. There were also funny remarks about what success or failure could mean. Success can be measured in various ways. Someone's measuring the speed of borrowing. I could answer and say that I could measure the success of inflation and hyperinflation, or perhaps by disregarding the law of guaranteed obligations. It may be a failure to be in crisis when the whole world is in crisis, it may be a success to be in crisis when the world isn't, but I will end up with how we can measure everything - success or failure. Also, I remind you that the Budget Law provides for these guarantees. Therefore, by adopting the Budget Law, we have actually given support to these guarantees. Someone also said the state is much more in charge now than it was in early 2000. Well, that's really not true! You know there's a public funding bulletin, and you can check it out. I'm sure you know that in 2000 the participation of public debt in the social product was 150%, and today, despite all that, borrowing in these three last years, the participation of public debt in the social product is four times less. I could never say that the IMF said that we run a restrictive fiscal policy. Between the word'restrictive' and'responsible', I have to say there's a big difference. I can't say that the budget adopted with the deficit is a restrictive budget. I just can't say it, because it doesn't say it in any book, but I can say it's responsible to run a countercyclical policy, and that means that during a crisis period it reacts by deficit. I'm asking you to make a difference between restraint and responsibility. I had the impression that one MP didn't understand what I meant to say, why there was a difference between so-called. software and project loans. I had the impression that one MP was asking me to mark the money that was received on the basis of the "World Bank" guarantee, that 400 million dollars or 300 million euros, with red paint, so we know it's about that money and that we're sure that he's gone for certain purposes. I don't know if the MP knows exactly what the Treasury function is, and that's that money, whether it's from tax revenues, whether it's from a loan or a securities show, comes from a common tank. So you said that you mean that you can't spend more than the budget is planned, and the budget says -- so much goes for wages, pensions, social contributions, so, let's say, 70 billion dinars go for the economy and 30 billion dinars for investment. Now you're asking me to tell you, since you see that we have a deficit, let's say, of 120 billion, that 30 billion that's scheduled for investment will come from a World Bank loan, and those 70 from government bonds, and salaries, pensions and social benefits from tax revenues. What's wrong with being different? We also need loans from the World Bank and the broadcasting of vault records, of course, tax revenues. The deficit is like that, the money when it comes to the vault he's colorless. By the first major global economic crisis, the deficit was mainly the result of war financing. I fully agree with the words of an MP. But I also have to point out that after the great global economic crisis and, say, after the famous first part of Kenz, I don't like Kenz, because I think there are other economists closer to me by nature, the deficit becomes a regular instrument of fiscal policy and he's so-called. structural nature. Therefore, it is used depending on the stage of the economic cycle. At the time of Laza Pachu, he was a deficit and he had financed the wars, but believe me, Serbia was also far away from some European countries at the level of development at that time. Now she must be less distant than she used to be. It is interesting that one MP insists that the'mastrich' criterion should not be respected, for example, when it comes to the size of the fiscal deficit, why not bigger. Immediately thereafter, the second MP says – there should be savings, there should be a smaller deficit, but I definitely think and I suppose you will all agree that, regardless of whether the deficit is structural, whether the deficit is the result of the war, it is always better to deficit and fund the use for purposes, such as health, education, investment, than to finance wars. And maybe I'll just look back on the last speaker's words. Do I believe in statistics? What I believe in is a serious economic analysis. I doubted the accuracy of the data that the number of employees was reduced by 400,000. Why? Because there are two sources of data, the same institution called Republic Statistics. According to a source called Employee Statistics, employment has been reduced by 200,000. According to another source, called the Labour Force Survey, employment has been reduced by 400,000. The difference between these two sources is that the Labour Force Survey covers employees in the gray economy or in some gray zone. It is natural for me somewhere in times of crisis that exactly the number of people in the informal sector is growing, going from formal to informal economy. Why did I suspect that number? I haven't analyzed it yet, and my people at the Ministry still haven't, because that 200 grand difference has to be found somewhere. If you worked in an informal economy, you 200 grand, you lost your job, where are you now? You didn't retire because you didn't have a job in the formal economy. Have you moved out? Did you show up on the labour market? The labour market says you didn't. Did you apply for social aid? Because you need social assistance. The social institution says it's not. I just need to see where those 200,000 people showed up. What is indisputable is that people in the private sector have lost their jobs, that 200 grand is a lot, but here, I honestly said why I expressed my doubts about these numbers. As always to me, regardless of sometimes expressed disdain with my face, it's always pleasant to hang out with you. I appreciate it, once again, that there were no harsh words and I'll see you again soon. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-23-0.u50473	Your Honor, Madam Minister, we thank you, too. National MP Dragan Stevanović – will not. I thank you Since we have completed the search of all amendments, I conclude the review of the bill in particular. I would like to inform you that in the voting day, we will decide on the draft law in principle, in detail and in general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday, February 28, 2011, starting at 10 a.m. as a voting day. As the 28th February 20011 was set as a voting day, I note that the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 113(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 264(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in that day, also declare on the request of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic that the National Assembly re-determined the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. I remind you, too, that we will see each other tomorrow at 10 o'clock and that we will have representatives of the government proposed by the current topics. The vote is at ten o'clock on Monday. The government will be our afternoon of 16 hours, so we'll have intensive work tomorrow.
