ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52024	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the topic that we want to talk about today, as part of this opportunity, concerns the problem of 15,000 citizens from the territory of the city of Belgrade, or the municipality of Zemun, specifically the settlements of Altina in Zemun. This problem has been present for two years. It's just that the Altina settlement was flooded because of the groundwaters. It really takes it, and it's already taken a very serious situation. There is a great danger of contagion, as the water, even the feces, spills out into people's backyards and houses. Unfortunately, all the authorities are completely deaf to this problem. The citizens of Altina tried with all the authorities, from Zemun municipality to the Ministry. Everything ends only on promises, and their problem is growing from day to day. In addition to a large number of family homes, there are also a significant number of businesses, businesses, residential buildings with multiple apartments, and they are all absolutely in the same problem. The problem is very easy to solve, because it is a matter of cleaning up existing and digging up new canals that would drain wastewater and rainwater, even, unfortunately, when there is no rain; this problem has escalated to that extent that even in dry weather people are no longer without that problem. In the municipality of Zemun, they are not in the mood to solve the problem of the citizens of Altina, regardless of the false promises they made in the election campaign, when there was also a problem of groundwater. Every once in a while, they come, they promise, they say, they'll sort it out. On the other hand, they boast of what they have done for the citizens of Zemun, and for what is the real problem with their finger they have not moved. The next person to deal with the problem is the Belgrade City Assembly. If the Zemun municipality is not willing, and apparently it is not, to help its citizens, then the city of Belgrade should do so. There is also the Public Enterprise Galovica, which is responsible for cleaning and excavating the canal, but must be paid for it. Who's supposed to pay for that? The municipality of Zemun or possibly the city of Belgrade should pay. Neither of them are interested in helping improve the living conditions of these 15,000 citizens in Athens. Mr Oliver Dulic, the minister who publicly advocates the preservation of the environment, for environmental science, could also from all those donations that he talks about there are allocations and to solve the problem, because there is a much smaller problem for the cans, which Dulic collects in various actions with ministry activists and large money, the ministry spends on expensive television ads. Of course, everything that is intended to preserve and protect the environment should be welcomed by every citizen in Serbia and of course we have nothing against these activities, but he would have to look into setting priorities. Currently in the city of Belgrade, it is a priority to save groundwater in the Altina settlement. We are taking this opportunity to invite everyone in charge, from the municipality of Zemun across the city of Belgrade, to conclude with the ministry headed by Mr. Dulic, to agree on who will hire Galovica, who will pay for those channels that already exist, and that those who do not exist are being excavated and that finally those 15,000 citizens of the city of Belgrade are starting to live a normal life. Indeed, living in Belgrade, living anywhere, and having your feces returned to your house and yard, and especially in Belgrade, is indeed something that is unacceptable. We urge everyone in charge to solve this matter immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52025	I give my word to MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52026	Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, two days ago, representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia handed over a petition to the Serbian government against the sale of Telecom. In a delegation that was accepted by the minister, among other things for telecommunications, Mr Predrag Markovic, so was I. On this occasion, we had a very correct conversation on this subject and Minister Markovic heard all the arguments we had to say, which are in favour of not selling this company in this way and in this procedure. He respected the fact that more than 100,000 signatures were collected against the sale of Telecom, and he promised us, and I believe that the arguments and facts relating to the collected signatures will be passed on to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and his colleagues in the government. So what I don't doubt at all is that Mr. Predrag Markovic will do what he said. He did not say that he would prevent the sale of Telecom, because he cannot promise it, but what he promised I absolutely believe he would, so I have no further questions for Predrag Markovic because we talked to him about what we talked about two days ago. What would be my question, this is a question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic: does Prime Minister Cvetkovic think that he appreciates the fact that more than 100,000 signatures have been collected – a million can be collected if you want, because people in Serbia are very aware that the sale of state and state resources is not something to support them – and will he suspend the "Telecoma" sales process because there are certain dates when certain things happen? It's moving soon, in the next day, in the process of collecting offers, and I'm afraid at some point things will become reversible, so that's where they have to react immediately. As for the reason, I'm not going to repeat them here because here is the form of asking questions rather than putting out certain views, but I have to say briefly that one of the arguments that were presented to the public, which were presented by the resolution ministers, was very simple. It's about a state-owned company that works perfectly well, which gets a good profit and, in that sense, represents a great resource. Such resources as telecommunications are not unknown, in a democratic world, in Western Europe are mostly owned by the state, in certain countries. Therefore, we think that it is necessary to keep these resources, not sell by this process, back-to-back and budget, that later the money that comes from the sale of this resource into the budget would actually be used without any control and, above all, to fill budget gaps, because the government was not capable, nor would it be able in this composition, in this assembly, to start production that would fill the budget in some other way, which would be completely natural. If you guys are gonna break up and break up the whole time, it reminds me of that old fable about a fly that was warm and hid in a cow's dung and then slowly ate, a little bit, until the dung disappeared. So we have to take care of what our country's resources are and how to protect them. So my question is: what is the Prime Minister's concrete response to the initiative that has been filed since we talked to the resolution minister? In addition, we have a debate in parliament that we have initiated and we expect it to be, the president of the National Assembly, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52027	I give my word to the People's Messenger Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52028	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask for who knows which time to ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a question. Why is the criminal charges filed by the prosecutor's office in 2005 by former Justice Minister, the late Vladan Batic, who was filed against Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus, Vesna Djindjic, Dusan Lalic, Nikola Zivanovic, Mladen Spasic, former director of UBPOK, Mira Erić Jovic, not being processed? This application is in the D.A.'s office and still, here's six years of pre-examination. According to a report filed, about eleven billion euros are at stake. I ask this question for the simple reason why I was head of the team appointed by the president of the then government, Mr Zoran Djindjic, and Police Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. With me on the team were representatives of police, UBPOK, BIA and the National Bank, whose governor was then Mladjan Dinkic. We collected all the paperwork, brought it in, handed it over. And Mr. Spasic moved on to the team and with Mr. Dinkic everything went wrong, and me and Mr. Sandic got kicked off the team because we wanted this to go all the way. The same documentation is also in the case of Mrs Barac Verice, who has repeatedly launched it, but is now eliminated because the Anti-Corruption Agency was created. The same application on this issue was initiated by Aleksandar Lojpur, a lawyer who collected all the documentation and submitted a report to the prosecutor, who did nothing, as did the late Vladan Batic. I'm asking you this now: since I'm in this report witness number two... All witnesses who were not co-workers of Mr Dinkic were deceased: Borka Vukic - deceased, Vladan Batic - deceased. And, of course, all participants in this process of disposing and transferring money to Cyprus: Bajja, former police minister - the deceased, Vlahovic - the deceased, the man who piloted when the money, JAT director Petrovic - the deceased, etc. Vuk Obradovic, who served as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of corruption, who led the process, and he died. I've been tried twice physically to get out of this story. Was I supposed to be one of the dead? There's so many attacks after this, that they've come towards me, they can't explain themselves. I demand that the government of the Republic of Serbia make an urgent statement about this and explain why the investigation was not launched and why the trial did not begin. I repeat, all the papers are here. It's eleven billion euros. Another issue related to this issue, this is the documentation I mention many times to Mr Cvetkovic – the status of "Zagrebačka Banka", the participation of "Jugobanka" in "Zagrebačka Banka". Why is this procedure hitchhiked as well? I repeat, Zagreb Bank, a total of two billion. So, thirteen billion euros is the total issue. What are these companies whose accounts were transferred to, and what happened after that? The explanation must also be given to the prosecution to ask – why is it standing in drawers and why is it not moving? Gentlemen, please from this day forward all these attacks I'm experiencing after all this has happened and this documentation I own... Mr. Cvetkovic said to deliver it to him, and he has it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52029	Time, Mr. Ilich. Thank you. I give my word to MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52030	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which abolished the Ministry of Faith and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and in fact fired Minister Ciplic and Minister Šijakovic, for the citizens of Sandzak is a positive signal. It is these two, less or less, that are the direct causes of all the problems that occurred after June 2010, when they broke the laws of the Republic of Serbia and discriminated against their decisions. This is also confirmed by the independent regulatory bodies of the Republic of Serbia: trustee for equality, protector of citizens, trustee for the availability of information. The latest information is from the citizens' protectors, who said that the process of creating a commission dealing with religion in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has also violated the law. All these decisions by the independent regulatory bodies of the Republic of Serbia confirm that the LDP policy in the previous period, which refers to Sandzak, is absolutely correct. That this reconstruction not only remains a symbolic goal is necessary for the government and the ruling coalition to change their policy by 180 degrees. The change should take several directions, and these are exactly the directions I'm going to talk about are my questions that go to Prime Minister Tsvetkovic, to see if he will do anything about it. These directions are: the abolition of the election decision for the Bosniak National Council, which is scheduled for 17 April. In fact, these elections will only traumatise society in the Sandzak area further. Also, these elections will be boycotted, as more than 80% of citizens will not go to the polls. These elections cannot solve the problems created by Ciplic, but will only deepen the very difficult situation anyway. The other direction is that in the new ministry of state administration and for human and minority rights they recognise and start talking to the Bosniak National Council, which was established after the elections held in June 2010. This Bosniak national council was established in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia and, most importantly, it was established in accordance with the rules set out by the Serbian Parliament when it comes to mandates, which absolutely say the mandates belong to individuals. If anything of yours for the Serbian Parliament, then absolutely applies to local congregations and national councils of national minorities. Also, we expect the government to move very quickly into the process of abolishing duality within the Islamic community, to complete the process of accreditation of the International University of Novi Pazar, to finally end discrimination when we talk about religion, or the believers of the Islamic community in Serbia, to strictly implement the provisions on the return of property to all religious communities, according to the law, and, most importantly, to start solving economic problems in the Sandzak area, but not in the way we heard the other day, to take over a company from the Sandzak area, but to finally end the privatisation process in the Sandzak area, to change regional policy, because the economy in the Sandzak area is also addressed to markets in the area of Montenegro, BiH and Kosovo. What I want to say at the very end is that in the Sandzak area live people who absolutely experience Serbia as their own country. It is because of their feeling that they are asking local and state authorities to respect the laws of the Serbian state, that the rights and obligations, which are equal for citizens in the rest of Serbia, be absolutely the same rights and obligations for citizens in the Sandzak area. We will not agree that Sandzak and the Sandzak citizens will be on the lookout for all the problems that occur in the area of the Republic of Serbia and, most importantly, that the ruling coalition is trying to pump confidence by showing that one whole national minority is a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52031	Thank you. I give my word to Parliamentarian Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we already have some new government issues with us. Ever since you started this chaotic privatisation, which has been a little bit more or less adapted to a certain moment, there's been a series of abuses in the privatisation process and a series of abuses in the availability of assets that are subject to privatisation. The other day, we chose a new government. We have had a situation that some people who have made catastrophic mistakes today have been promoted from the state secretary to the minister's post, in some ministries that are extremely important for the functioning of the state, economy and economy as a whole. When it comes to the subject of privatisation, i.e. the availability of property, I wanted to ask a few parliamentary questions concerning the "Metal Systems" of Kragujevac and the act and inaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when certain circumstances are at stake. So, on December 6th 2010, the owner of Metal System Dragoljub Radulovic directs the Ministry of Economy a letter offering to the state to take possession of Metal Systems. On December 31st, abuses are already beginning because Dragoljub Radulovic's goal and wish to give up his debts and to illegally retain the right to use certain assets, which would now be state-owned, and that the state is paying off the debts of the companies that are subject to government. He had the goal of retaining process equipment and using one law-allowed trick, which is to force his deputy Ivan Glisovic to set up an Alpha Techs company with the address of "Process equipment" on 10 January 2011 to conclude a lease agreement between "Metal System" and "Alpha Techs", which refers to "Process equipment". I got that contract right here. Should I say that a four-year leaser, in this case Metal Systems, is not asking for anything from the tenant, Alpha Techs? So, for four years, one company will now dispose of state-owned assets and, of course, make certain revenues. On January 21st 2011, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a conclusion on the basis of which the stateship of the "Metal System". The first question – did the Government, on January 26th, some two weeks and perhaps a little more, know about the existence of a contract between "Metal System" and "Alpha Techs" on renting out a business space with "Process equipment", which is part of "Metal System"? This conclusion is contained in the following: ‘The text of the agreement on the transfer of the share of the company Metal Systems d.o.o. Kragujevac to the Republic of Serbia, which is an integral part of this conclusion. “ This was signed by Prime Minister-General Tamara Stojcevic... I don't see Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's signature here, but I believe he's fully agreed and familiar with this, too. On this basis, Nebojsa Ciric, then state secretary and now Minister of Economy and Regional Development, is empowered to conclude a contract with Metal Systems, which, of course, makes up 26 January. Here's a copy of the contract that's closed. In the preamble to the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia, which, on behalf of the Government, is represented by Nebojsa Ciric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development... Other contractor, ‘Metal systems’ d.o.o. Kragujevac, represented by Director General Dragoljub Radulović (hereinafter: transporter)... That contract was signed. The government is initiating the state-owned "Metal System" procedure Kragujevac, and as a result, Mr. Ciric tells the Agency for Business Registers a memo that it is impossible because the right carrier cannot be the firm "Metal Systems" Kragujevac, but he as the owner, not as the director. (President: Time. I wonder if Mr. Ciric... In the Ministry, was there a contract written? First question. The second question: if he knew about this mistake, he shouldn't be the secretary of state, and if he didn't know about this mistake... I mean, if he knew about this mistake, not only should he not be, but he should be held accountable, and if he didn't know about this mistake, he couldn't be a minister in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52033	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the National MPs Konstantin Samofalov and Gordana Komic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by representatives of the motion: Zagorka Dolovac, President of the State Council of Prosecutors, Nata Mesarovic, President of the High Council of the Judiciary, Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice. So, I invited Ljubisa Dragasevic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors. We move to the 30th item of the agenda – Proposal for a MEPs' election candidate from the Public Prosecutors' Office and the Deputy Public Prosecutors' Deputy Prosecutors' Office with the Permanent Function, you have received a proposal for candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors with a permanent post, which has been filed by the State's Major Prosecutors. I remind you that, according to Article 193, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in the following way: Parliament group ZES – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; URS parliamentary group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS - 24 minutes; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single investigation into the motion for candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and the deputy public prosecutor's office. Do the proposing representatives, Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac, the president of the State Council of Prosecutors and Ljubisa Dragaševic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors, want a word? Yeah. You'll have to go to the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52034	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on Article 35. The State Council of Prosecutors Act, held on 8 March 2011, proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect the following candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors: Branko Stamenkovic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and two candidates from the primary public prosecutors, Daniel Sidelic, Public Prosecutor at the Second General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Majda Rakic, Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office. In accordance with the provisions of Article 21(1). On 20 January 2011, the State Council of Prosecutors Law of the State Council of Prosecutors adopted a decision to initiate a procedure for proposing candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Electoral Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors, the Electoral Commission on 25 January 2011 adopted a decision on how to exercise public service rights to monitor the procedure for proposing a candidate for election member of the State Council of Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors, as well as the decision on election actions and deadlines, and on 31 January of this year, the rules for the presentation of candidates in the process of proposing for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors. On the same day, the Electoral Commission of the State Council shall be held at its session, on the basis of Article 26(1). Law on the State Council of Prosecutors and Article 2. The Rules on the work of the Electoral Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors also adopted the Instructions for the implementation of the procedure for proposing candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors with permanent office. At a session held on 14 February 2011, the Electoral Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors adopted a decision to publish a total number of voters in public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia; then, a decision setting out polling stations for the implementation of the procedure for proposing candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors in the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors with permanent office and a Decision establishing a final list of candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors with permanent office. In order for the state's major prosecutors to propose to the National Assembly the best candidates, the public prosecutors are indicated to be expected to be expert, worthy, to justify the results of their work, as well as to enjoy the reputation and trust among colleagues and citizens in the environment where they live and work. It was also asked by the public prosecutors to explain their proposals, as well as to deliver the records with the colleges, as they did. First, State's chief prosecutor for the election member of the state's council of prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors suggests Branko Stamenkovic, the deputy public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and the head of the Department of Combating High-Technology Crime at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Here's a short biography. Branko Stamenkovic was born in 1971 in Belgrade. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1997. The working relationship was founded in Belgrade's District Public Prosecutor's Office, and in 1999 he passed a judicial exam; in 2001 he was elected deputy public prosecutor at the second municipal public prosecutor's office in Belgrade. He completed specialist studies of the Alternative Academic Education Network in Belgrade, under the programme "Criminity in Information Technologies and World Communications", as well as "Contemporary Business Organisation". During these studies, he published a number of articles and works on contemporary criminal law and the challenge of crimes in the field of computer crime and protection, which represented a pioneering enterprise in this area in our country. In 2001, he also completed specialist training in the area of modern public administration management under the Government of Serbia programme, the Agency for the Development of Public Administration and the Austrian Academy of Public Administration in Vienna, as well as training "International Bar Association" and the Fund for Humanitarian Law from Belgrade in the area of international humanitarian law, in co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia of the United Nations in The Hague. He co-authored the book "Terrorism and Organized Crime". In 2003 he was a lecturer and trainer of the Justice Centre in the framework of a judicial administration training project for the use of modern information technologies. He attended the special training of the OSCE and the National High-Tech Crime Unit of Great Britain in the area of the detection and prosecution of high-tech, electronic and Internet crime with special reference to the carrying out of evidence and the handling of specialised judicial councils for this type of crime. He also completed specialist training "Visa International" in the field of risk management and use of payment cards in the area of Central and Southeast Europe. That was in 2004. In 2005, he worked as a guest lecturer for Serbia-Montenegro in training seminars on research techniques to combat computer crime and launder money electronically. Between 2006 and 2008, he was a lecturer for the Council of Europe and the EU under the "PAKO Serbia" in the area of combating economic and computer crime in the Republic of Serbia. He participated in a month-long programme and a study visit to the US judicial institutions under the US Department of Justice and the US Department of State Department's "International Senior Leadership" programme in the area of the US judicial system. He managed and organised a project of first application of the electronic administration in public prosecutor's frameworks using Internet technology, which was implemented in the then Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. He is one of the first deputy prosecutors to work on high-tech crime cases in the Republic of Serbia. During the period between January and July 2010, he worked as a senior adviser to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in the Department of International Relations and Legal Assistance on direct contacts with international judicial institutions and bodies, as well as on EU, Council of Europe and the United States co-operation projects. On August 5th 2010, he was appointed head of the Special Department for the Combating High Technology Crimes of the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, with a republican jurisdiction. Under two, the state's chief prosecutor for an election member of the state's chief prosecutor in the public prosecutor's office and the deputy public prosecutor's office is proposing to Daniel Sidelic, a public prosecutor in Belgrade's Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office. Daniela Sidelic was born in 1975 in Obrenovac. The Belgrade Law Faculty enrolled in 1994 and graduated in 1999 with a high average rating. During the study she actively participated in the work of expert groups formed to improve students' knowledge. She wrote and defended a large number of professional works. The judicial exam was passed in 2001. After her studies, she founded a working relationship at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Obrenovac, first as an intern and then as an expert associate. In the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office, she was elected deputy municipal public prosecutor in Obrenovac in 2002, and served as a public prosecutor at the Obrenovac Public Prosecutor's Office from 2003 to 2004, to serve as deputy public prosecutor at the Obrenovac Public Prosecutor's Office. He is currently serving as a public prosecutor in the Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Also, she attends postgraduate studies on the criminal course at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, in which she passed oral exams, and is now under way to defend the master's work on the subject of "the role of an individual's judge in criminal proceedings". The daily work uses the computer, serves the Internet and the electronic legal database in court practice, uses the prosecution's internal programmes and the prosecutor's network in which cases and data are stored in electronic form. English and German speak. She regularly participated in training organised by the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors of Serbia, the Justice Centre, as well as other professional seminars and educations. It also holds certificates based on participation in seminars, including a certificate of the Judicial Centre on participation in seminars on the rights of children, the crimes of young people and the treatment of minor offenders. She also took a specialist course on the topic "Fight against Corruption" at the Centre for Security Studies, with the support of the Swedish International Development Agency. She participated in seminars and training on topics: criminal proceedings and the European Convention on Human Rights, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Police, the criminal court and the control of crime, money laundering, the confiscation and freezing of property acquired by criminal acts, the crime of corruption. She also participated in a seminar organised by the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office on the subject of "The Bills of Public Prosecutors and the State Council of Prosecutors", as well as on a round table organised by the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors of Serbia on the subject "The position of public prosecutors according to the national strategy of the reform of the judiciary and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as "The position of the Public Prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia and the comparative analysis of the position of the Public Prosecutors in the European States". It has successful and effective co-operation and communication with deputy public prosecutor, court and other state bodies, organisations. It is ready to exchange views, provide professional assistance and professional training. He's successfully training prosecutors' interns and prosecutor's assistants. He has good co-operation with professional and professional organisations dealing with issues of importance for the exercise of the prosecutor's office. As a deputy public prosecutor and as a public prosecutor, and now as a public prosecutor, she has worked and worked on complex cases with a number of defendants, where special knowledge is needed in the areas of economy, finance, administrative law, civil law, planning and urbanism, as well as rules in the field of tax law. It also organises the general administration of the Public Prosecutor's Office and adopts all necessary acts and performs all other tasks provided for in the law. Under point 3. The state's major prosecutor for an election member of the state's council of prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, Majda Rakic, deputy public prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office. Majda Rakic was born in 1972 in Kralje. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac in 1997. Shortly after her studies were completed, she was employed as a volunteer in the King’s attorney’s office and later as a lawyer’s intern. The Municipal Court of the King was first accepted as a volunteer and then a judicial intern in 1998. In 2000, she passed the judicial exam, and since 2001 she has worked as an expert associate at the Municipal Court in the Kingdom, and then moves to the Business Court in the Kingdom, where she works until 2003. Following the December 2002 election of deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, he took office in February 2003. During that period, she was largely engaged before the Administrative Court of Commerce, where she represented nine municipal public prosecutors from the area. It holds a 2006 Justice Centre certificate, which confirms that it has acquired special knowledge in the field of child rights and criminal protection of minors and that it can take action at all stages of proceedings against the adult offenders listed in Article 150. Law on juvenile offenders and criminal protection of minors. By election by the State Council of Prosecutors in December 2009 as deputy public prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office, she took office on 1 January 2010. By the Justice Academy of the Ministry of Justice, the Belgrade office, she was awarded a certificate of participation in the seminar's work on the subject of "Responsibility of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes 2010". He speaks English. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52035	I would like to thank the President of the State Council of Prosecutors, Mrs. Dolovac. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Just to inform you that according to this agenda, the representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group will be MP Srdjan Spasojevic, LDP Judita Popovic, SRS Vjerica Radeta and ZES Bosko Ristic. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52036	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS MP group of Mrs. Dolovac did not expect to read what she wrote to us and what we had already read. There was no need to bother that way. We expected many answers from Mrs. Dolovac, because we repeatedly asked her for answers personally, and, of course, the prosecution. For example, we expected this Branko Stamenkovic to say that he came, we don't know how, for the deputy public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, without being re-elected to the General Prosecutor's Office at all. We expected, say, to say that Branko Stamenkovic was known in the prosecution for flying to the courts in the Bermudas; or, let's say, because of his hard work and commitment, he was regularly out-of-date; or, let's say, at a time when he was elected, his father was a judge of the Court of Commerce; or, let's say, he was the one who filed a criminal charges against Dragan Todorovic for allegedly missing control of money for rail transport, where the expert absolutely killed him in that criminal report. She commended Mrs. Dolovac all these candidates to know they're working on a computer. He just didn't tell us if they might have an open profile on Facebook? So you didn't tell us anything, Mrs. Dolovac, to convince us that these are good suggestions. Also, you remain obliged to tell us if the BIA has given you the consent to propose these three people, since we learn from the media daily that BIA is actively involved in judicial reform. Regarding that question, too, for you -- what did you do as a state prosecutor against those unselected judges and prosecutors who, according to the press, the BIA told you that because of some corruption affairs and because of the receipt of bribes could not be re-elected? So there are a lot of questions that we expected to answer from you, because we were just happy to see you in this assembly room, since you have been persistently, ever since you've been put on that post, avoiding communication with the MPs. Should we remind, the public will, and you may remember, that the Security Committee has called you six times, Mrs Dolovac, to come and talk with the members of the Security Committee about malfeasance and crime related to Luka Belgrade, "The mouth," "News"? It never occurred to you to respond. I guess you think you're above all else, that you're so independent and powerful you can do whatever you want. We ask you today to answer what you did, for example, on a criminal record that we from the SRS filed against 17 persons involved in the crime of privatising "News". What's going on with the criminal charges we filed against you? Who did you tell to put it in the drawer and there's no sign of it in public? What did you do, Mrs. Dolovac, and it was supposed to be official duty against those who broke the false news that Vojislav Seselj of The Hague planned and ordered the murder of Tomislav Nikolic? We have filed a criminal report, or Mr. Vojislav Seselj has filed a criminal report, we have informed the public that we have received relevant information that it is a complete lie and fiction of Vukic and Nikolic. You did not react on official duty, but did not react on the application of Vojislav Seselj, either, according to reports submitted by Nemanja Sarovic, Elena Bozelj Italian and me. So you're not interested, Mrs. Dolovac, and you should be interested. Imagine that Vojislav Seselj's lawyer is informed that proceedings against Tomislav Nikolic cannot continue because his address is not known! He says it's not the address of the National Assembly, because he's not employed in the National Assembly. Here, ask the president of parliament, ask everyone in parliament where Tomislav Nikolic is employed. He's been employed in parliament for 20 years. He is familiar with the address, but you, of course, protect Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, and you will not do your job. You do it, of course, by the order of those who appointed you, these are the ones from the regime; you probably didn't even know about Vukic and Nikolic at the time, but they set you out of the regime to do what suits them. Mrs Dolovac, why was the criminal charges filed against the president of the municipality of Zemun and Steve Zivanovic rejected, and we submitted evidence that the president of the municipality Branislav Spacious and Steve Zivanovic, who was then a board member of the Serbian Radical Party, was discussing the purchase of a council member in Zemun municipality, that they were ready to separate 100,000 euros for the job, that part of those couples had been given to Steve Zivanovic, that his son was employed in Zemun municipality, that he offered to the councilman Sasa Sutotic, who recorded the conversation? We also delivered a transcript and audio footage. That's not enough for you. What are we supposed to deliver as evidence, Mrs. Dolovac, that your prosecutors start working in accordance with the law? We really expect, in fact, to insist that you answer all these questions, because we must take advantage of this unique opportunity when you have honored Parliament to come here and underestimate us by reading to us a few pages that one of the officials wrote to you, as if we were illiterate. We've read, Mrs. Dolovac, what you wrote, but we've also read everything that says between the lines, which is much more significant. You're here proposing candidates that you only praise with where in the white world they went to some classes, seminars, we don't know in anyone's interest, or anyone's expense. We don't need Mrs. Dolovac, those who learn from the white world how to destroy the justice system in Serbia. We have enough professionals and educated, who have been educated in the country of Serbia. Are you, I suppose, the generation that finished law school in Serbia, when we didn't need mentors from abroad, do you admit that you're not a good enough lawyer? I ended up at that time, and I consider myself an excellent lawyer, without false modesty. So, Mrs. Dolovac, you'll have to answer one more question. We spoke the other day, and we'll talk when Mrs. Nata is, we hope for the next item of the agenda, but there's definitely work here for you. We mentioned the judge of the Court of Commerce, now Trgovinski, Marina Tomic, judges of the Court of Appeal Branislav Goravic, Djorđa Jovanovic and Dragoslav Vukinić. These are judges who directly attacked the constitutional system and the constitutional order of the Serbian state. Why and how? By deciding, first this lady in the first degree, and then those in the second degree confirmed that Tomislav Nikolic could raise a loan in the name of the Serbian Radical Party from the Bank of Intect without the authority of the Central State Administration in charge of it, with the explicit ban on the party president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, to take loans and to introduce the party into debt slavery, while refusing to listen as witnesses to members of the presidential college who attended the talks when Vojislav Seselj banned it. We, because they wouldn't listen to us, filed court-confirmed statements, where we listed it all. This whole thing didn't interest these gentlemen. Why do we claim that they directly endangered the constitutional order? Because, Mrs. Dolovac, there are precisely defined ways of funding political parties. If political parties, as these gentlemen claim, could take loans, what would then, in order to control money flows in political parties? All of you, publicly, declareably, will change the Law on the financing of political parties, so that the parties know how to finance themselves. How can you not ask yourself as a state prosecutor, and you are obliged to listen and what is being said here and what is being written in the paper and to act on official duty, how can you not ask yourself as a state prosecutor where the Serbian Progressive Party is financed from? How can a party that doesn't get a single dollar from the state budget have that kind of money? Isn't that suspicious to you in the D.A.'s office? Do you know what all the implications of doing so in Serbia's political life are? Why are you even a state prosecutor, Mrs. Dolovac? We've been expecting, here, since yesterday your reaction; it's gone, not even to this scandal that took place in the Municipality of Ada. Do you even know what happened there? Do you read the papers, Mrs. Dolovac? Do you know that at the centre of Ade, a monument was set at Janos Damjanic, a famous Serbian, who once declared that Serbs should not exist and that he would not calm down until the last Serb in the world was dead. What does the president of Ada County tell us? If he didn't know who it was, that the monument was given as a gift from Hungary and that it wasn't seen in the teeth. Does this mean, Mrs. Dolovac, that you, as a state prosecutor, would allow someone in some municipality to present the monument of Ante Pavelic and that someone might say that they do not know who it is, without looking at the gift in their teeth and you will be silent? According to the president of the Vojvodina Assembly, it is not necessary to raise so much dust around that monument, because it is about a man who lived 160 years ago. He says, after all, so what, he killed both the Russians and the Habsburgs, not only Serbs. Imagine the scandalous statements of state officials, and the prosecution is silent as if it had nothing to do with constitutional order, nor with the state of Serbia, nor with the powers you have, Mrs Dolovac, both under the Constitution and by the laws. Of course, this topic is certainly an opportunity to remind ourselves that today it is seven years from the Serb pogroms in Kosovo and Metohija. We certainly expected you to talk about it too, Mrs. Dolovac, today, when you've already honored us with your presence. What did we expect of you as a man headed by the Serbian Prosecutor's Office? To tell us what you've done against this comedy that Eulex has done, he's arrested these Kleck butchers, then released their commander, Lamia, immediately. Did you react, this is happening in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Kosovo and Metohija, if you did not know, Mrs Dolovac, are part of the Republic of Serbia. So why don't you write five words in public to call the Eulex Justice over it? What don't you call it, you can do it, why don't you call Boris Tadic and the regime because they've allowed EULEX to be installed, contrary to Resolution 1244? Why didn't you say you didn't trust the Eulex Justice? Well, look what they're doing to us, you see them laughing in our faces. Why don't you answer the phone, Mrs. Dolovac, on the subject of Dick Marty's report? That's what you're expected to do. We expect you, along with this special prosecutor's office, to insist as the state prosecutor's office, that the investigation be conducted, that the authorities from Serbia and Albania lead the investigation. If you don't know why, here, I'll explain. Crimes took place in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. in Serbia. There, Mrs. Dolovac, the living Serbs were taking out organs, selling them in Albania and via Albania, and then the Albanian judiciary should be involved and all that to be done under the auspices of the UN. Mrs. Dolovac, do you have a say in that? It's amazing that you as the man in charge, the first man in our D.A.'s office didn't answer on the subject of Dick Marty's report. It's amazing you don't have an attitude and you don't have an opinion on it! If you disagree with what we Serbian radicals insist on, say, you may have a better solution. If you have a better solution, we will support you. If you think Eulex can do it, then shut up, we won't support you, because Eulex can't and won't. Eulex did not come to Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija as part of Serbia to help, but to destroy everything, to make it even more impossible for Serbs to live in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Mrs. Dolovac, do you know that on this day seven years ago from Kosovo and Metohija six cities and nine villages were evicted? What have you done under your jurisdiction? You can't go deaf and act like Kosovo and Metohija aren't part of the Republic of Serbia. What have you done against the prosecutors we've turned our attention to here, though, in your absence and against the judges? We will also ask Mrs. Mesarovic, and here we ask you, as it is more in your jurisdiction. What did you do against the judges and prosecutors who were getting paid from the so-called. Kosovo authorities and the Republic of Serbia? You've re-elected them all. What did they deserve to be re-elected? What are they sitting on two chairs? What have they sold for a handful of euros to traitors and those occupying Kosovo and Metohija? Imagine the shame, you re-elected them, and you didn't re-elected some honest and honest, because they didn't suit you politically. Then you're telling us that this re-election and this so-called. The reform wasn't political, you took care of your expertise. Yes, and the BIA followed your prosecutors and judges. I repeat, Mrs. Dolovac, you are under obligation to tell us immediately today, because you need to know, you don't need time to find out, against how many former prosecutors and former judges have been prosecuted because of the crime they haven't been re-elected. If it is true that they are not re-elected because of the crime, because of bribery and corruption, and you and Mrs. Nata Mesarović and Snezana Malović, and Bosko Ristic and other members of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, if it is true that they have not been re-elected for a year and a half, then you are matured for criminal proceedings, Mrs. Dolovac. So we insist that you answer all these questions, and what you have suggested, these three people, nothing will change in the future re-elections and elections of the public prosecutors and their deputies, because this is not just about the names individually, but about the completely radical system, it's about what you called reform, and it's about the total destruction of the justice system in Serbia. You know that well. Have you done anything against your colleagues, and you will have to do it again personally? Why does a thousand judges and prosecutors (or more than a thousand) take a year's salary from the budget and not do that job because you haven't re-elected them? So, Mrs. Dolovac, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic... (President: Time. I'm done. So, here, just once again request on behalf of the SRS Group Mrs. Dolovac to answer absolutely all questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52037	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52038	Dear Madam President, Mr Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has a view on judicial reform that the reform must be supported and that the reform must be completed. It seems to me that this reform has gone very slowly, that it hasn't even ended that first step, and there's a very big problem. On May 20th of this year, the European Commission is sending its representative and I assume that by 27 May we will be serious about this reform. It seems to me that these public prosecutors who are proposed to be members of this serious body who will decide on future public prosecutors are quite appropriate persons, therefore, persons of the profession, of integrity, who will be able to make all those demands that put them and their lives, and society, both state and profession in the task. They will most likely be the main pillar of the future prosecutor's staff, therefore, the basis for the development of one segment, one part of the judiciary. We support the reform, but we would ask certain concrete questions about the war crimes prosecution, the prosecution of organised crime and corruption, so we would ask whether the profession is considered above politics, especially when it comes to the war crimes prosecutor's office? It is very important for the profession to be dominant, especially since we know what years preceded 2011. We know what was going on in the 1990s on SFRY territory. The prosecution has a huge role to play. The prosecution should investigate and pre-warn crimes, establish the truth and seek to punish criminals. This is such a big task that when the war crimes prosecutor's office goes into some procedure, he has to think more seriously about what the proceedings are already under way, against which persons and must pay attention that, just because the truth has to be established and the punishments of concrete crimes and criminals, he has to have the task of building bridges of trust among countries in the region, which means that not the continuity of political persecution continues, but that the profession is the set by which the prosecution will work and run certain procedures. Unfortunately, cases such as Jurisic, Purda, now particularly Divjak, formerly Ganic, speak of the fact that there have often been procedures that only harm the state and society, as well as the prosecution itself. We will agree that if the prosecution wants to build its reputation and integrity in society and state, it has to think much more seriously and much more seriously about it, so that it does not come to the situation to face liberation or to give up concrete procedures for concrete people, and this is about citizens of countries in the region with whom we want to build serious co-operation in all areas and in every respect. When we talk about organised crime and corruption, these are also very serious problems for this society and this country. The above-mentioned reform of the judiciary is aimed at rooting out, at least trying, and organised crime and corruption. Without judicial reform, we have no socio-moral rebirth, we have no economic development, we have no functioning of the state, and we have no, for God's sake, no European integration. It seems to me that the prosecution has not yet found its place in the functioning of the entire judiciary, because we still have so many unexplained affairs, we still have the opening of scandals in the yellow press, and we have so few closed proceedings against concrete crimes, against concrete defendants and defendants. It's not the yellow press in charge of solving the prosecution's work, it's the prosecution that needs to root out, or at least try to root out, these most serious crimes. When I say the most serious crimes, first of all, I mean organized crime, without which, you'll agree, this country would really blossom. It is absurd that organized crime without the co-operation of certain parts of the state structure does not exist. Corruption isn't dangerous where a hundred grams of coffee is bought, so it's related to a civil servant. Corruption is when it's done on a much higher level, when it's done for much greater value, for much greater money and for much more privilege. Together, corruption and organised crime destroy both society and the state. Therefore, these prosecutors who will become members of the State's Council of Prosecutors have a serious job to do. They have very big challenges that they will have to address, and it is up to us to support them in every way, whether we are in power or in opposition. There must be a social consensus on whether or not we want to get rid of this organised crime and corruption, and whether or not we want to solve the issue of war crimes, because responsibility must be specified, responsibility must be attached to specific names. Responsibility cannot be tied to ethnic groups, it cannot be tied to certain peoples, but must be known who committed the crime when it was committed and what its crime consisted of. It's precisely because of the seriousness of this job that is coming to these prosecutors, as well as all the other prosecutors who will be elected, that we can't close our eyes to the specific problems the prosecutors are facing, that we can't ignore all the pressures these prosecutors are under, and the pressures, you'll agree, there are also political spheres and pressures coming from the economic sphere. So the pressures are diverse and, indeed, those people who will have to carry this task of reformed justice, the reformed prosecution must be so strong and firm as to respond to these tasks. I welcome the fact that the people who are proposed for the State's Major Prosecutors are mostly young people, people who studied in the late 1980s and early 1990s. I welcome the fact that there is obviously a generational change between prosecutors, because generational change is important to break that continuity that binds us to an ugly and bad past. All those who come now face today's problems, and the problems that existed in the past still need to simply pass and overcome; today is the one that has to determine the work of today's prosecutors, today's parts of the judiciary. It seems to me that we are even slightly unseriously approaching the constitution, that is, the election of these members of the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as members of the High Council of the Judiciary. It's inconclusive because, as far as I can tell, there are very few MPs in this room. Secondly, we are discussing two separate points of the agenda, and it was much more comprehensive to combine these two points, in order to get a much better and more serious debate on both prosecutors and judges. However, who knows which way parliament must adapt to someone else who proposes agenda points, someone who delivers material to parliament, and then the situation is that we will discuss both the judicial reform, concerning both prosecutors and judges, both in the morning and in the afternoon, separately, for prosecutors in particular, for judges. I think it was much more rational to unite the debate on one and the other. In any case, we from the Liberal Democratic Party support the election of members of the State's Council of Prosecutors, support the fight of prosecutors for the rule of law, which is expressed primarily through serious work in the war crimes prosecutor's office, in prosecutions dealing with organised crime and corruption, above all. If this work is completed, I think we will have a much healthier and much more polite, more civilized and more serious society and state. If this chapter 27 of the SAA arrives on the agenda, after Serbia's EU bid is accepted, it will have the opportunity to say what it expects from the judicial reform. All that we have said so far just confirms that judicial reform, as the most significant reform in the country, is so much needed. We don't have time to delay and delay it, but sooner or later we have to approach making and that second step, because this first step hasn't yet been taken to the end. It stopped here somewhere at the beginning, and it's been two years since we passed that set of judicial laws that were the basis and the precondition for any judicial reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52039	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a single search of the application for a word in writing with the order of Members of Parliament, were sent by the MPs of the SRS Group. I give my word to MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52040	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the proposal for candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the ranks of public prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, it is very, firstly, an interesting material that has been delivered to us by the team for the occasion. Of course, it is a matter of very serious functions, where people who are to deal with the most difficult phenomena in our society, who will have both moral and professional integrity and knowledge to resist all pressures, possible settlements, and who will have no mercy in dealing with criminals, above all with the most difficult and the worst, and in our case, unfortunately, the mafia, because organized crime has long been linked to the ruling furniture. However, it seems that through the biography of one of the candidates we can look at all of the judiciary's genes in Serbia; on these short two sides, in fact, it is explained what the situation with the judiciary is and also with prosecutors, when it comes to Serbia. So what is it that the promoter insists on when it comes to certain biographies? Mr. Branko Stamenkovic, who is the candidate here, is the first person to see what falls into his eyes – completed the specialized studies of the Alternative Academic Education Network in Belgrade. Alternative to what? Alternative medicine. What's this about? That he completed the training “International Bar Association” and the Fund for Humanitarian Law. At the head of the Humanitarian Law Fund, Ms Natasa Kandic, who in the third volume of the book Vojislav Seselj, is listed as an associate of the US intelligence service. He took part in the Rockefeller Foundation projects from the United States. It's exactly the foundation financed by the tribunal in The Hague. A tribunal in The Hague, in which Serbs received more than a thousand years. The UN tribunal in The Hague, which invented the joint criminal enterprise in 2001, eight years since its formation, which is not prescribed by the tribunal's Statute, or by any other act, and which judges only Serbs. Prosecutors, according to the number of Serbs allegedly in the joint criminal enterprise, accuse them of everything the Serb forces have done. And what are Serbian forces? All Serbs who defended the Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or the old SFRY, including background units. So they can charge anyone on that basis. What are the further qualifications of this gentleman? He completed the special training of the OSCE and the National High-tech Crimes of the UK. This is an excellent qualification, a fantastic qualification. According to official UK statistics, there were 85,000 victims of identity theft in 2009. In 2010, this increased to 89,000. Otherwise, the British state authorities and institutions are so well-trained that they have lost documentation and personal data on more than a million citizens of Great Britain, and that is not a qualification. Then, Mr. Stamenkovic passed the training of the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence. Sonja Licht, whose boss is George Soros, who signed the bombing petition. aggression on SRJ. How can you even put this in someone's biography? Be careful, the qualification that a man is trained by those who supported the aggression against SRJ, who killed 82 children, including three-year-old Milica Rakic in Batajnica. Could that be a qualification for anything? This should be thrown out of the biography as soon as possible. This is a shame. He also completed specialist training "Visa International" in the field of risk management and misuse of payment cards, etc. The biggest use of credit cards is credit cards themselves. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know, because the debts that credit cards make are hard to pay off. Interest rates are huge, especially in the state of Serbia. The ones on the annual level are over 25%. It's parasitic banking. It's the biggest scam ever. But he is not trained to do so, he is trained in risk management, although all banks in Serbia receive advice from well-known Western companies on risk management. Speaking of banks, the question is also asked how is it possible that Serbia's judicial system is agreeing to grant credit to a political party in a situation where the president of the party, Vojislav Seselj, has explicitly banned the loan from being raised by Tomislav Nikolic, at an interest rate of 17.97% a year? That's the interest rate citizens can get for cash loans. The obvious intention here is that Nikolic wanted to hire such a party so that it would financially fail. How can he be in charge of a party when the regulations prevent it, when it is the responsibility of the Central State Administration, when it is necessary to explicitly exercise power and authority to be in charge of this legal basis? It was simply incomprehensible that such a loan could have been raised in "Inteza" in 2008, despite obvious bans, and that judges, such as Goravica, Jovanovic, Vukevic, Tomic, ruled in his favour. For what? Probably because William Montgomery, a member of the US Intelligence Service, is behind his back, which has been part of the US secret police for 30 years, both here in Serbia and in the Balkans at all, has performed a number of dirty operations. He is most likely involved in the organisation of the assassination of Serbian Prime Minister Djindjic. The media also wrote about it, but, of course, you can't say anything about it. Through the biography of this gentleman, we can move to a general situation in the Serbian prosecution, in the Serbian judiciary. I just want to remind you, on the matter of re-election, that it is a great shame for the authority that investigative judge Danica Marinkovic is not re-elected, and thanks to her, the truth about Račka, which was the cause of aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, has been established. The woman under the rain of bullets came out on the spot and found that there were no crimes there, that the Ship's terrorists were dressed as civilian suits, their uniforms were taken off. There's very specific data for that. Who implements judicial reform, who influences the Serbian prosecutor's office? First of all, the justice reform is being carried out by ABA CELI, an NGO formed by the US bar, which gave advice on how to form and how to operate the tribunal in The Hague. Also, they gave advice on the dispersal of the old Yugoslavia, the SRJ, for the status of Kosovo and the Metohija as wanted by the Cypriot terrorists. If you do not understand what ABA CELI is, type online and you will see that it is implementing judicial reform in Serbia. That's what serious articles are written about. In practice, there are a large number of prosecutors, especially in the war crimes prosecutor's office, who are afraid of some people here on the public scene. For example, prosecutors and judges must not act in certain cases freely unless at least Mrs. Natasa Kandic nods her head. How is that possible? She seems to have the power to replace herself and appoint some prosecutors. Is she the new state body in the Republic of Serbia? I have already told you that according to State Security data published in documents published by Dr Vojislav Seselj in the 1994 book "Police File", Mrs Natasa Kandic is being led as an associate of the US intelligence service. A large number of documents, evidence of crimes against Serbs has been destroyed. Has the American agent been destroying evidence of crimes against Serbs for years? The largest exhibition on genocide against Serbs, collected by Mrs. Bojana Isakovic, was burned in the parish home in Vranj in 2003. It covers the period from 1941 to 1945 and 1991 and 1992. So there are more recent crimes. It's never been investigated how that file was destroyed. Mrs. Bojana Isakovic was also physically attacked on the street and barely survived. The prosecution doesn't seem to be interested in this kind of thing, because they burned evidence of crimes against Serbs. If the evidence had been burned possibly for some other crimes, it would have raised the hook and the disruptors, but it couldn't have happened. Very interesting, about the crimes against the Serbian people, it was mentioned yesterday, and we can also look at the prosecution's practice in this case... Yesterday in the National Assembly, we had one complete negation of crimes against Serbs, as it was said by one MP that "The Gjilan Group" did not commit any crimes and that there was only one witness there. There was no witness in the process, there were three protected witnesses, a large number of evidence of the most ferocious killings of at least 80 Serbs by the monstrous terrorists from Kosovo and Metohija, who were willing to kill children, women, to shut them down and torture them. Not to read what they were doing, according to specific data, because I think it would turn all people's stomachs if I read it. Some, however, seem to be allowed to do so. Here, just these terrorists are from Western officials, so Dick Marty, charged with organ trafficking. I ask you, is the Serbian prosecutor's office, does the Serbian government conceal certain evidence of the trafficking of the organs of kidnapped and kidnapped Serbs, in particular, of evidence that suggests that human organs trade began in Tudjman's Croatia, Izetbegovic's BiH, and that Javier Solana and General Wesley Clark, Bernard Kouchner and Richard Holbrook were involved? Is it true that there is evidence in the possession of the Serbian state concerning the August 15th 2001 talks, carried out in the Swiss Alps, between Javier Solana and Wesley Clark, where the trafficking of human organs of the abducted Serbs is mentioned, where it is mentioned that experts at Bondsteel base also participate in these crimes, i.e. in their hospital and that one of the final users and trafficking in human organs kidnapped Serbs and the Royal Hospital in London? So these transcripts exist. The question arises why does the prosecution not respond to these questions? What I wanted to say in the end is that the situation in which the justice system is located in Serbia, the situation in which the prosecution is located, is such that they are not independent. They're obviously affected by some forces on the outside. I also listed some individuals, organizations they belong to. It looks like the D.A.'s office has been left with the possibility of just playing with his job. Until the prosecution is completely freed, until it is truly independent, until the judges are independent, we will not get answers in this country who committed the most serious crimes and the most serious crimes. As you know (this is another example) even in Serbia it is in some sense forbidden to talk about the most serious crime, according to international law, crime against peace. That's no longer mentioned. It's obvious that someone from the West wants Serbs to represent only as criminals and all others as their victims. It's obvious that the one from the West, across the lever that's in the West, that's in the so-called West. The international community, which is here in the state of Serbia, is putting pressure on both judges and prosecutors to work in their interest. Ladies and gentlemen, your first task is to free yourself of that influence, to defend the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia and not to bow your head in front of anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52041	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52042	Ladies and gentlemen, the topic in front of the National Assembly today is very important. The importance of this topic is interested in Serbian citizens, the professional public, as the status and progress of the Republic of Serbia depends on the holders of judicial functions and reform of the judiciary. The public prosecutor's office has a special task in the area of detecting criminal offences, gathering evidence for suspects and perpetrators of crimes, co-operation with police and other state authorities to combat organised crime and corruption as successfully as possible. What I'd like to single out specifically is the question of whether the public prosecutor's office is politicized or not? Is the public prosecutor's office an extended arm of the executive authorities? Compared to past times, we had the opportunity to make sure that some authorities selectively approached the persecution of perpetrators of criminal acts. When it comes to the choice of judicial officials and reforms that are under way, it has not given or produced the desired results. The very way of choosing the holders of judicial functions is very problematic. This is indicated by the professional public, and is suggested by a number of institutions from abroad, as reflected in the aspect of comparative law. The question arises whether certain criteria are respected in the last re-election and election of public prosecutors? In some areas, by some prosecutorial office holders, you had statistics that no one could praise. Unfortunately, they were elected prosecutors and deputy prosecutors. Their relationship to the bankruptcy mafia was not at an envious level. The biggest crime in Serbia is the privatisation process. What's the role of the D.A.'s office? To monitor, control, check and process perpetrators of criminal acts in the privatisation process. Hundreds of billions of dollars were robbed in Serbia through privatisation. How many were processed in the privatisation process? What punishments have been imposed upon them, and have any punishments been imposed at all? A well-known bankruptcy Belgrade mafia, involving both judges and lawyers and some prosecutors, was only the beginning. This had to be a serious sign that a review must be carried out in the privatisation process and that even the legislation envisioning privatisation must be amended. What's your role, Mrs. Dolovac, as a bankruptcy manager? I don't know if you've had a chance, our MPs at the MP's club, and I've asked that question a few times, the question of bankruptcy managers and their wealth. Do you know, Mrs. Dolovac, that a third of the bankruptcy in Serbia, thousands of legal entities that are privatized, go into the pockets of bankruptcy managers, and that ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have brought such a rule in time that bankruptcy managers can take as much as they need? Check Dinkic's rule and check the fact that it is true that the bankruptcy manager in the Agroziva bankruptcy in Panchev should take 535,000 euros? Check it out. The prosecution had reports, signals and information that criminality was taking place in the bankruptcy and that the deputy bankruptcy manager had his own firm in Belgrade; he is now trading with the firm and has spent about 10m euros in his firm. Since 2005, thousands of privatisation contracts have been terminated. Serbian workers have been robbed. Serbian workers are victims because of the lack of adequate regulations and because of the government's policy to get rid of social property at all costs, but through this view that individuals are enriched. Are the money shared between the bankruptcy managers and the bankruptcy agency? That should be checked. What, Mrs. Dolovac, as a prosecutor, and you had a recent opportunity to hear in the Assembly, when the prime minister gave answers to our questions about what happened to the privatisation of Azotara, when it was damaged by stealing a new factory, which was supposed to be released into production, but the new buyers disarmed the factory, boarded it on trains and sold abroad? Azotara was privatised for 13.5m euros, with the value of products in stores being ninem euros. So they added four and a half million euros. For only one plant and one factory, Karbamid 2, they took 32,000,000 euros. The bookkeeping value of the factory was 45,000 euros, without other resources. Prime Minister Cvetkovic recently answered our question here and said that the total damage only in the privatisation process of Azotara was created for the state, workers and the town of Pančevo, 90,000,000 euros. Mrs. Dolovac, what happened to privatisation and how was Luka "Dunav", Panchevo privatized as the most profitable port in the Danube, of strategic importance? You might have information that one of those customers, some Turkey, is in jail? But the question is, why isn't there an audit to get that factory back to the workers? Because it is for one or two rusty, a spent container purchased by Puric and another co-owner from abroad who came to Serbia with a purse and a bow and robbed the workers of Luke "Dunav". What happened to the privatisations of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade"? What happened to privatising "Recreatures" in Belgrade? What about the privatisation of the catering company "Freedom" in Panchev? What happened to privatising a trading company, the largest in Banat, the "Produced" Panchevo? What happened to Milky Way? With the Lighthouse factory in Panchev? What happened to the 50 other companies that were sold? The bankruptcy managers took good money, the alleged honest buyers came to capital, and now that capital of the innkeepers, the sale, the street workers, and the money in their pockets. Will your prosecution, at all levels, initiate proceedings? There's room for prosecution. What happened to the ones who closed the contracts, sold the factories, ran off and took the money? Why aren't they being prosecuted? Because they damaged the workers, damaged the state. There's more crime, and the D.A. doesn't react at all. I have to tell you, Serbia's budget would have been far more full if someone had taken care of the conclusion of issuing contracts in the lease of state agricultural land. Millions of euros in tycoons that buy state agricultural land do not pay for years. How is it that they come from Croatia and take three thousand acres to rent us? Todoric took hundreds of thousands of hectares, but that's why no one from Serbia can get one square metre in Croatia! The D.A.'s depolitisation has to be carried out. Many say the prosecution has extended the arm of the executive and government. When you see how public prosecutors and their deputies are chosen, that's exactly how it turns out. The election of public prosecutors and their deputies should be in the National Assembly's custody, I'm not sure the State's Chief Prosecutors can choose the right staff to be the bearers of these functions. It is not enough that someone went to Zlatibor for counselling or to the Kopalnik and spent money from the Republic of Serbia's budget and wrote some professional papers on some insignificant topics to be the bearer of a very significant function. The public prosecutor's office has a special role today, at this time, during the transition, at the time of the greatest crime. There's something else that bothers me. It is not clear why prosecutors are so advertised in the media. If anyone needs political discreditment, that's where the yellow press will be hired, the prosecutor will make statements. No, the prosecutor collects evidence, prepares the indictment, represents the indictment before the court, the court is the one who delivers the verdict. Mrs. Dolovac, you're the first prosecutor in Serbia, don't let the prosecutors go on TV or to the media and make any statements. It's a matter of court, and it's the prosecutor who's going to participate and follow procedure. One more thing, you can see through these media what are the drastic penalties that are now being imposed, which is a criminal policy in Serbia, compared to the comparative right. Here, a Serb in Canada was caught stealing 78,000 euros, sentenced to two years. At our place, if he stole two bicycles – five years. Take this information too – is it recorded in the case-law of former SFRY, SRJ and in the countries of continental and Anglo-Saxon rights that someone has received 280 years in prison, of course, we cannot not condemn it, the murder of that French fan Taton? Where is this recorded in court practice? What are we doing? Well, you see, that's one example that will remain very negative in court practice. Secondly, you see, Mrs. Dolovac, what a policy criminal persecution is. This is Purda's file, this is the Vesna Bosnian file, which contains a number of material evidence that they committed crimes against the Serb population. Release the purdus... You're part of, to be clear, a prosecutor's organization; we know who set this thing free and on what grounds. Do you know how many thousands of Serbs are processed in Croatia? What's this all about? What does this look like? We're releasing Purda, who killed soldiers in Vukovar and the Vukovar hospital of the wounded. He's not a war criminal. We let Vesna Bosanac, who did everything to make the Serbs' lives bitter, to take blood violently, to turn the hospital into a command center of war criminals, "zengovics", to arrange for sniper nests at the hospital to be established and to act, that Serbs are killed and thrown into the Danube, that prosecutors from Belgrade and other competent authorities offer false evidence against Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. Mrs. Dolovac, we know that the indictment against Dr. Vojislav Seselj was not written in The Hague, nor was she written by Carla del Ponte. She was written in Belgrade. If you take, as an excellent lawyer, and look only at the logic and technique of writing the indictment, it has nothing to do with those charges which, in parallel law, can be compared with the evidence compared to the countries of the European Union or continental law. Just because he represented national interests, only because he was a Serb, only because he was giving fire speeches, reportedly, Dr Vojislav Seselj should be guilty. He must be released, because it is high time, of all the evidence that has been made so far, no evidence is relevant for the condemnation of Dr Vojislav Seselj. But it's a miracle that no legal institution, no prosecution, no court, no law in Serbia has opposed and said that you in The Hague can't use forbidden and illegal funds and false means in relation to the indictment against Dr Vojislav Seselj. Dr Vojislav Seselj should now be held because someone is bothered, the elections are coming, the election year is and now he says – he can distract us. Well, he'll come. It is the only man who can prevent this disaster, that Serbia is on its own path and that it is on its feet, that justice and justice are respected and that the rights of all our citizens are respected. So, Mrs. Dolovac, the reform that was carried out in the judiciary, including the prosecution... You have prosecutors who didn't deserve a satisfactory grade. They were moved from municipal, basic and went to appeals, as deputies. Where's that? Take their work results, just get some prosecutions and judges with lawyers. How can a prosecutor or a judge drive a BMW lawyer? Reform needed and needed, but was not well implemented, criteria were not good. It wasn't taken care of. The greatest is evil, and this will be revealed if political parties participate. One party now says 800 judges have not been elected, but all 800 have applied to one "back" party. They say they are now members of a "back" party, and you know which party it is. Now you see whether we are politicised or depoliticized and whether the parties are involved or not, whether one of the presidents of the Bar Association is running to political parties to get support, to eventually be president of a particular chamber, to even be a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. So politics is the greatest evil. Let the politicians raise their hands, let both the prosecution and the judiciary become independent. Unfortunately, they haven't yet. Some who are angry about the reform should have left the judiciary a long time ago. But the elders of the judicial authorities are the biggest culprits. They were complicit in all the irregularities that were taking place because they did not control those who were in charge of the Rules of Procedure and by law. That's why you have to redecorate, review, establish rules, determine morality and honesty. In the judiciary, we have most honest people. The intellectual capacity of our lawyers in Serbia, including the judiciary and the prosecution, is high. Our lawyers are for those who judge Serbs, "the television in color". They can be academics for them. I would not agree with the EU coming to us and giving us some rules here how we're going to choose judges or prosecutors. That should in no way be allowed, that should be prevented. Let them raise their hands, raise their hands from the Venice Commission, raise their hands from the European Commission, raise their political hands from the judiciary, so that we have a quality judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52043	Thank you. Mr. Sreto Peric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52044	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dolovac, for the first time, you may not know, you have the right, not to interrupt the MPs, but you have the right after every debater, if you want and feel the need to answer. Personally, I think you are a good, fantastic opportunity, which was first given to you by Mrs. Vjerica Radeta, then Boris Alexic, now our colleague Petar Jojic... You had a need, and perhaps an obligation to answer many questions. The two syntagms that are very common, perhaps the most used in the Serbian people at this time are: "The European Union has no alternative" and "Court Reform". As far as the European Union is concerned, an increasing number of Serbian citizens do not want to have any connection and contact with the European Union. The Serbian Radical Party in continuity is a major opponent of the EU, which does not mean that members of the SRS or holders of the SRS policy are against the people living in EU member states, on the contrary, we are just not in favour of conscious slavery. When it comes to judicial reform, the SRS also advocates judicial reform. We believe that there is no progress in society, that there is no political stability unless judicial reform is implemented. If we have in mind that since 2000, we have referred to a negative selection of judicial personnel, and you are part of the judiciary, then surely, with full capacity and full of our strength, we are in favour of judicial reform. Mrs. Dolovac, you have had the opportunity to mention your name when studying the subject of Criminal Procedural Law and the organisation of the judicial system in Serbia, but you did not take advantage of it. On the contrary, you have failed. You're not someone from the sphere of politics, but you've probably come politically to the place where you are. You know probably, as others who know this problem, that in the prosecution, the principle of monocratism applies and that all who are called prosecutors, the deputy prosecutors in Serbia, and those who are in the Special Prosecutor's Office, fall under your jurisdiction. Your duty, and therefore your responsibility, at this very moment, is great. We in the SRS get the impression, that's why you've been asked so many questions, that you're in no condition to... I wouldn't underestimate your professional capacity, you could probably do that, but for some other reason, maybe because of the fact that you're a political proposal, and there's a lot of political interference in judicial reform, i.e. in the judiciary at all, you come to this function; then you don't want the way you can, the way that the positive regulations give you the opportunity, intervene. In order for those who are monitoring this transmission to know what we are discussing in the National Assembly, today we should choose, that is, on the day of the vote, on your proposal, and you are also the president of the State Council of Prosecutors, three members of the State Council of Prosecutors. Let me just remind you that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there are 11 members. Of these, there are three by-functions (you are one of those who are in office): a republican public prosecutor, a minister in charge of justice affairs and the chairman of the Committee on Justice and the administration of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The other eight members are elected for a term of five years, with six elected prosecutors and deputy prosecutors and one elected as a prominent lawman from the law school and from the bar. Sometimes, as prominent, he goes undisclosed, with the fact that he points out on the list. Some have passed through in the first election of prosecutors, including the VSS, by noting only as candidates, and in their professional and working career they had nothing special to boast about and point out. I wonder why we're going on a partial basis, which is why we're talking today, and we're only considering three proposals, not six? You are the three candidates who read their biographies at the presentation; you have the right to do so; it is not at all controversial. To conclude, it is common to all candidates that relatively young people, which we support, on the one hand, and on the other hand, are all family. And that's something that's good, because this policy is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to make marriages, this policy, this regime. Something that can cheer is that those who are family people have families and children, which is good. You said, or it says in this proposal: “How could the State’s Major Prosecutors propose to the National Assembly the best candidates, public prosecutors are presented... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” There is nothing to show for it, there are positive legal regulations that absolutely clearly define how members of the State's Council of Prosecutors are elected. But to know that neither your prosecutors nor your deputy prosecutors are completely satisfied with the procedure and the way this has been done. You respected the naked form, but the way you chose it, it can be seen from these biographies, and especially can be seen in contact with prosecutors and deputy prosecutors... These two candidates attended all possible courses, this candidate from the Kingdom is probably not close to Belgrade, not close to the centre of power, which have a major impact on the work of the prosecution. Unfortunately, they have a major impact on the prosecution's work. In one of the candidates, he said -- he published several articles and works on contemporary criminal law. Well, the most articles here were published by fellow Srdjan, he's a columnist of several papers, so it doesn't qualify him as a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Then, with the same candidate, he said he attended the Austrian Academy of Public Administration in Vienna, as well as training the Fund for Humanitarian Law from Belgrade in the area of international humanitarian law in co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia of the United Nations in The Hague. Furthermore, this candidate is said to have been the adviser of the Republic Public Prosecutor for relations with the International Criminal Tribunal, where Natasa Kandic is located, where Sonja Licht is. This candidate, and this is Mr Branko Stamenkovic, so there is nothing good for the Serbian people. There is nothing good by definition, on the one hand, and on the other hand, there is no commitment to the profession, but it will be political processing to the greatest extent possible. He says, between 2006 and 2008, he was a lecturer -- an expert (suddenly, all experts) for the Council of Europe and the EU under the project PAKO Serbia. You could've written "Hell of Serbia." I don't know how much because of your influence and your unhappiness (when I tell you I hate to think of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office), but to the greatest extent under the regime that is in power in Serbia now exists. My colleague, Veronica Radeta, told this candidate that she likes to come to the courthouse in Bermuda. He only does so during the summer period, so not during the winter period, which can qualify him as a very good member of the State Council of Prosecutors. In the period between January and July 2010, he worked as a senior adviser, which is why I say that he is probably also proposed, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in the Department of International Relations and Legal Assistance on direct contacts with international judicial institutions and bodies, as well as on projects of co-operation between the public prosecutors and the EU, the Council of Europe and the United States. Well don't we have enough institutions, don't we have a criminal right to be able to educate ourselves here in the best way, that we don't have to go to these lectures and these courses in the white world? You're saying that this candidate was a coach. Imagine someone saying – my coach was the late professor Radomir Lukic when he passed the exam, or someone said now – my coach is Slavica Djukić-Dejanović as a professor, a university professor at the Medical Faculty! Let's once read the facts, say they had so many objects, that they've done so well, that they've made such decisions in these cases. That's what we, as MPs, would like to have along with the biographies of candidates for a member of the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as for the VSS. What courses did they all take? Well, we don't care about that perfectly, and we don't care about that part at all. For one candidate, this is Mrs. Daniela Sidelic, you say she attends postgraduate studies on the criminal course at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, in the framework of which she studies Methodology of Legal Sciences and Methodology of Social Sciences. Anyone who has enrolled in postgraduate studies knows that these are two basic subjects that are subject to postgraduate studies. You could have mentioned in the biographies of these candidates that they had passed Roman law, the introduction to law, the Obligation Law, and I don't know what not. It doesn't matter if anyone has a master's title or not. It's not that important either, and it's not the most important thing that you're looking at. You see that someone is obedient, that someone wants to work politically in the prosecution or the judiciary, and that's basic to you, everything else isn't that important. You've got a lot of work to do. You should have a lot of work to do. Many times, SRS MPs pointed to the doing of crimes in privatisation, as well as in other spheres. You have to react in such cases. You can't look down on it like nothing's going on. It's very common for us to start writing yellow press first. It's not even investigative journalism. Then the prosecutor reacts or doesn't react at all. Have you, as a republican public prosecutor, considered how and in what way to at least hear them, to make statements by those who gave up on the pursuit of Purda, Ejup Ganic, Vesna Bosnian and others. Imagine, the president of the Republic of Serbia said -- it doesn't matter where he will be tried (at a time when Ejup Ganic was in custody in England, London), it doesn't matter where he's being tried, it's important to be a fair trial. A fair trial – we advocate, it is standard, that is, if you will, the European Union, the Venice Commission, and do the citizens of Serbia have the right to a fair trial? Did you, as a republican public prosecutor or anyone else in the Serbian justice system, wonder what the right to be tried by Prof. Vojislav Seselj? Of course not. But you have no right to do that. Positive regulations apply to you, as well as to any other citizen. Start doing your duties a little bit and what is in the interest of the Serbian citizens, and not just running some procedure, so there's not enough evidence, so we're giving up. What are the motives of the Special Prosecutor's Office to give up these pursuits? That the republican public prosecutor would have to know, he'd have to check how and how to behave. Furthermore, what she was talking about, as our authorised representative, Mrs. Verica Radeta, regarding the submitted applications for some members of the SNS. We assume that there are also high-quality people in the SNS and we are not at all leading the controversy or the fight against such members; we have filed criminal charges against the members of that party who, as Mrs Verica said, directly tried to threaten the constitutional order of this country. That's what this is about. You, in the end, don't take any of those applications into consideration at all. Do you know that in one city, I will be precise, in the King, there is a deputy public prosecutor who tells you on a written report - I will not press charges? There may not be elements for the prosecution, but you cannot say, or write – I will not press charges. Is that the D.A.'s reform? It's not if it wasn't the prosecution's reform, it's a direct violation of the positive regulations, which someone would have had to answer for. If you're willing, you'd need to answer a lot of questions. I thank you if you are willing to participate interactively in today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52045	Thank you. The word has Mr. Zoran Krasic, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52046	We came here today to talk about one item on the agenda and to confirm those famous sayings that time can't correct what's wrong since birth. Because, as this item of the agenda is perceived, we just need to realize that 93% of prosecutors and deputies voted in a certain day, elections were held. Three candidates who received the highest number of votes, these are these candidates whose biographies we had the opportunity to hear, however incomplete. Some of them are not only coaches, but also walk dogs in the afternoon when they come home from work, as it is very important to highlight themselves in public transmission. Then the National Assembly is a place to check how much MPs respect the election will of prosecutors. You gentlemen have passed such a law, and now you are in the final act. If you don't have 126 votes for these candidates, then NGOs jump in and all those who watch you don't respect the profession here, and the aim of the judicial reform is to respect the profession. It's that prank, a fundamental prank. Today the whole discussion... Of course, I'm not going into these finesse, we're not going to discuss how someone imagined it, but we're shooting at every possible weapon to indicate that judicial reform is an impossible mission, a failed mission. That's what we said a few years ago. No one believed us. Then an adviser to the President of the Republic appeared, or the Secretary General, as it was - he took a cell phone or a tape recorder and went to the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, planted everything and recorded everything. Whether he was doing it on behalf of the President of the Republic or on behalf of the dear president of the new party he went to, it doesn't matter. The D.A.'s office is silent. As soon as you're quiet, that means it's allowed, everyone can listen. After all, strangers have long listened to everything possible. They don't care. A large number of unselected judges went to one party. They just confirmed why they weren't chosen. They're not even aware. Whoever believes Shojic and Cirque, you know how it's going to go, like a "white ship". The reform of the judiciary is needed because of the functioning of the system in this country. If we now withdraw everything that the citizens write to us, where they point to these cases where the prosecution does not take the necessary measures, or does not perform the tasks of its jurisdiction, it is likely that any member of the Greater Prosecutors could present three times as many performances and complaints to the citizens where these problems are referred to. It's important that these, as coaches, have passed all possible schools. Our judiciary is full of those who have acquired an ex-post mind and later knowledge, like some in 58 years. And these have only just won a course with Natasa Kandic or Sinisha Okic, who played such a significant role while in Novi Sad. And you, ma'am, have a significant role to play, since you're in Chanka and Pitiæ's house. Then no wonder what's going on in our D.A.'s office and why someone's not being chased if there's any suspicion that he's committed an alleged crime. This morning, we began to discuss the prosecution of some officials, related to Cyprus. I was sued by one of these because I asked here if the situation, the stocking on my head, where the money from Cyprus, has been resolved, which has been an open topic since 2000. But it doesn't matter. It is important that the newly transformed judiciary and this section relating to the prosecution operate on some of the regulations that do not exist in our system. Thanks to this transformation or just before this transformation, we got witnesses from associates, businessmen. He can step on the street, he's got security, he can hand out slaps to ministers, he's got security; he can get Mr. Chume to close contracts, he's got police security. Now, think about not making a deal with them. He has no problem with the payment of claims, no problem with the payment of claims. Do you in the prosecution know that 64,000 people in this Serbia work in private security, that they are armed? It shoots their belts if they have a license to carry and hold a weapon. We even have foreigners as founders and owners of these companies. That's twice as many as the police and the army together, if they were armed. I don't know what the D.A.'s office is, what kind of function is that? We present specific examples – stolen mandates, and there are resignations, and there is no resignation, and I forgot, and I have not forgotten, and, behold, the prosecutor is not responding. We're applying for an investigation, and now they're not responding either. They're bigger politicians than those in the National Assembly. They know in advance what will fall, what the future constitution will look like, what future laws will look like, and what provisions of the law they will not apply. We initiate the procedure for abuse of the official position and because someone has unauthorizedly signed and created a credit obligation and a man admits in the media everything, but what it's worth is there are judicial orders. Marina Tomic, so she made progress. Do you know how many criminal charges the prosecution has against that Marine Tomic? Well, every criminal report was plus for promotion and she's in the Court of Commerce. We all know that, all citizens know, all those who have had problems, who have addressed the prosecution, whether it's because of a car accident, whether it's because of something else, etc. It is true who are “protected bears. ” Hit a man, make an accident, then a jeep into a billboard goes in, you know, so I don't know what percentage of what it is there, etc. - Nothing, the D.A.'s quiet. Shut up. Why? He's into something else. He won't wringle. He won't waste fuel on the lera. He's into something else. They're being markety. You know, now lawyers and prosecutorial functions have become a category of market economy; they've taken -- they've given, bids and demand, so when they sit down and when they're agreed. Do you know that in the Republic, this war crimes prosecutor... The two were colleagues for twenty years in the office, one racketed, the other protected him. Of course, they continued to do their job there. They have complete documentation, but they can't, there's Sam Nazaro, there's transformation at EU requirements, so America, I don't know who else. Did you read the biographies? It's like being picked for a prosecutor in New York or Washington, not being in one body that needs to be chosen and resolved. Of course the prosecutors chose these, everyone has their hands. They won't get rid of anyone unless they're politically involved. That's our story. It's the wrong transformation, the deliberately wrong transformation, that it can't function the system as prescribed by the Constitution and the law, but depends on volunteering. You saw, the president's advisor could listen, he could discuss who he could be, who couldn't be a judge, and then, apparently, he rebelled, and then he moved on to another party, so 800 judges pulled out. And it's all normal with us, you know. It's a similar story with prosecutors. And it's all normal. Then what Petar Jojic waved with that amount of documents in the case of Vesna Bosanac or Purda, of course, cannot pass. The bosses from abroad want that, even if some documentation is provided, that documentation goes into the drawer, so as not to spoil the pro-European ambis, pro-European and pro-NATO ambitions. Now you have a deadline: in October – it will be in November, because on 12 October someone will sign there, so if it is not in November, then it will be in December, so if it is not in December, then we will start with a new story and see if it will be 2016. If not in 2016, we already have the 2020 programme, the big epochal programme 2020. The prosecutors have to fit in. The important thing is that they had an election campaign, that they had held a vote, that there was a ballot box, that it was a voting commission, that it was a election board, that the prosecutors had legislated, that they had circled, and who was elected, no one was interested. Who cares who's chosen? It is known who is cheerful and dressing both in one body and in another regarding judges and prosecutors – Minister, Republic Public Prosecutor, President of the Supreme Cassation Court and, of course, there is Bole, the life-long chairman of the Justice Committee. Bosko Ristic, whatever he caught, all dried up: both the SRJ and the state community. When he gets there, that weed doesn't matter anymore. That's what I've been telling you for five or six years, you didn't believe me, and you've always seen worse and worse. Everyone knows it's gonna be worse. He doesn't have the task of handling it so that it's good, he's tasked with obstructing it, making it look bad, so it all depends on a few people. What kind of parcelion was made in courts, you know that, we told you two years ago. Karamela holds these dishes, the Bols hold these dishes, he holds those dishes, they cheer and dress, they propose candidates. You tried to deny it, and you did exactly what we said. You have so successfully denied us that it is simply amazing! I hope we get a chance, because the next item of the agenda allows me a little more time, so I'll let the public know what transformed representatives of the judiciary look like. I'll take four very nice "zumbulas", four judges who entered anthology with their decisions. Of course, I'm taking the opportunity to comment on something that's justly ended, making sure I don't affect the decision, because they've already made the decision and entered history. I will immediately ask the High Council of the judiciary to initiate proceedings for their resolution because they are not worthy in Serbia to stand by their name as judges. Such examples of thousands can be found. I don't use examples with names and last names of citizens on purpose, I don't use examples with names of privatisation firms, etc. Because it can cause this kind of interpretation. I'll use the example of the first and second defendant, Tomislav Nikolic and the Bank of Intes, and four judges who couldn't make a mistake at all, unless they did it knowingly and deliberately. From the documentation I have brought, I will prove that the Serbian judiciary has been deliberately and deliberately shamed. On whose orders? That's what the D.A. would have to investigate. Or, if you can't investigate, engage Elliot Ness, called Cvian; he with that, you know, listening, he goes, talks, and collects complete documentation. However, you do not need Cvian, I have statements from everyone – who concluded the contract, who signed the bonds, what is the deal with Bank Intez how to do the damage, how to do something, how to kill Vojislav Seselj. Now, that's what we had in September of 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52047	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. The National Assembly will decide on a proposal for candidates for election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors. I thank you all for your participation. I set a break until 14.00 p.m., when we will continue with a single search of the 31st agenda – Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the High Council of Judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52048	Dear MPs, before we continue the work, allow me to welcome in your and my name a group of students of the Faculty of Philosophy in Nis, who are following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly. There are: Dejan Antić, Maja Perić, Kristina Stojanović, Bojana Miljković, Milos Đorđević, Milan Vidinović, Goran Milosavljevic, Bojan Panić, Bojana Ratković, Sandra Velić, Aleksandra Alekić, Dragana Stojić, Sanja Stanojević, Goran Mladenović, Sonja Bogdanović, Emma Živković, Natasa Radovanovic, Jasna Đokić, Milena Nikolić, Stanislava Simić, Jovana Rančić, Marija Dimitrijevic, Stana Ristić, Jovana Popović, Jelena Petrović, Aleksandra Stojković, Mila Marinković, Stojđe Miša Miša, Jovana Miljana Žalić, Draga Miljana Milić, Draga Ivana Milić, Draga Ivana Milić, Draga Milić. Let's give it up for our dear guests. We move to the 31st point of the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of Members of the Higher Judiciary Council of the Court of Justice you received a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the High Council of the Judiciary. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 192, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours and is distributed in the following way: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs to an hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, to the SRS Parliamentary Group for an hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds, to the United Regions of Serbia 28 minutes and 48 seconds, to Serbia 26 minutes and 24 seconds, to the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica 24 minutes, to the SPS-JS Group 18 minutes, to LDP 15 minutes and 36 seconds, to New Serbia 10 minutes and 48 seconds, to the Parliamentary Group of Minorities eight minutes and 24 seconds, to the United Pensioners Group six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups will be Srdjan Spasojevic for the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, Judita Popovic for the LDP Parliamentary Group, Zoran Krasic for the SRS and Bosko Ristic for the ZES. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the representative of Ms. Nata Mesarovic, president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52049	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, on behalf of the High Council of Justice and Courts in Serbia, I will make a decision for a proposal to elect a candidate for a permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. In accordance with the powers laid down in Article 35(1) and (2), The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the High Council of the Judiciary, proposes to the National Assembly candidates for election members of the High Council of Judges. I will say that you all know, as well as the general public, that a general selection of judges was carried out in Serbia during 2009, that it was done by the first composition of the High Council of the judiciary and that the election of members of the permanent assembly of the High Council of Judges, which, by law, is now being held by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. The elections were held on 3 March 2011. On 4 March 2011, the Electoral Commission of the High Council of the Judicial Council delivered to the High Council of the Judicial Council a paper on the work of the Election Commission and on the establishment of voting results for candidates for election members from the line of judges, with tables on the number of votes the candidates received in individual polling stations. At a session held on 7 March 2011, the High Judicial Council adopted the Charter of Elections and, according to the results of the vote, proposed candidates with the highest number of votes, appointed in the draft decision. I must say that the election of members and the proposal of a candidate for a permanent composition of the High Council of the Judiciary was carried out directly, at all levels, depending on the degree and jurisdiction of the courts. The National Assembly has been proposed, as is the legal solution under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, those candidates who received the highest number of votes. I will now announce the names of the candidates and say something from their short biographies, which have been sent to the National Assembly, not because I think the MPs are not familiar with the biographies and that they are not prepared for today's debate, but because of the general public, which probably follows the situation in the judiciary and wants to know what kind of candidates the Serbian judiciary has proposed for the High Council of Justice. For the candidate, we propose to Judge Mirjana Ivic, who was the judge of the Supreme Cassation Court of the Republic of Serbia and who is the judge of his career; before the election for the Supreme Court of Cassation, she worked in the Supreme Court of Serbia, in the Administrative Department, and had excellent results there. That is also the very fact that we have chosen only two judges as Supreme Cassation Court from the then-Governmental Court of the Republic of Serbia. Judge Mirjana Ivić was born in 1951 in Leskovac. She graduated from law school in 1975. She worked as an intern at the Institute for Publishing Action "Philip Višnić" in Belgrade. The legal exam was passed in 1984. She then established a working relationship in Serbia's Supreme Court as an expert associate in the Criminal Department, in the Juvenile Council. Since 1990, she has been assigned to the Administrative Department of the Supreme Court of Serbia, where she worked as a adviser to the President for Administrative Matter until 1998, when she was elected judge of the District Court in Belgrade. In the Belgrade District Court, she worked in the Administrative Department, and was elected Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia on 24 November 1999 and deployed to the Department of Administrative Matters, where she worked until 31 December 2009. She was elected to permanent judicial office by the High Council of the Judiciary, for the Supreme Court of Cassation; she took office on 1 January 2010. He works in the Specialised Council for Administrative Matter and the Council for the Resolution of the conflict of jurisdiction between the Administrative Court, senior courts and primary courts. He is a member of the ruling group Bilten of the Supreme Cassation Court's case-law. She has participated in numerous domestic and international meetings and international conferences. She has produced and published "A collection of laws on the confiscation and return of immovable property, with court practice". It's used in English and Russian. In the election for a member of the Supreme Council of the Court of Justice, she received a total of 40 votes for the election list for the Supreme Cassation Court, the Commercial Court of Appeal and the Administrative Court. So this candidate could be voted by the judges of the republican rank. On this list of candidates, the judges voted so, the largest number of votes on the list of candidates for appeals courts was won, and the National Assembly is proposed to elect a member of the High Council, Judge Milimir Lukic, who participated in the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. He was born in 1963 in Pristina. The Faculty of Law graduated in 1989 in Pristina and passed the judicial exam in 1991. He graduated in 1996 from the University of Paris, in Sorbonne, obtaining a degree in higher studies. From 1989 he worked as an intern and associate at the District Court in Pristina, until 1992, when he was elected Judge of the Municipal Court in Pristina. In 1998 he was elected judge of the District Court in Pristina. In 2003, he was elected judge of the then District Court and works at the Special Department for Organized Crime in Belgrade. He tried the case of the so-called So-called. The Zemun clan, and as a member of the council, was on trial for the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Last year, by a decision of the High Council of Serbia, he was elected Judge of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, where he was deployed as of January 1st to the Criminal Department, in the Special Department for Organized Crime. As judge of the Special Department, he participated in the work of the National Judicial School of France. He was hired by the OSCE Mission as a lecturer in criminal law in the field of organised crime. He published a number of professional papers and these works are listed in this short biography. I would just like to say that all candidates, as well as the general public in Serbia, were able to get acquainted before the vote with the biographies of all candidates, who were posted on the Council of Justice's website. The candidates were able to publish their short programme of future work and what they would stand for in their future work if they were elected or proposed for candidates for the High Council of Justice. From the list of candidates for several courts and economic courts, Aleksandar Stoiljkovski, judge of the Chamber of Commerce in Zrenjanin, who was born in Vrsac, is proposed. The Faculty of Law of the University of Novi Sad graduated in 1996. The judicial exam was passed in 1999. He began work in 1996 as a judicial intern at the Privrednim Court in Zrenjanin, and then as an expert associate, following a court trial. As judge of the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin, he was elected in December 1999, where he worked in the executive cabinet until 2005, when he was elected Judge of the Trade Court in Zrenjanin. After taking office, it was arranged for an executive referendum with 100% inflows and a 50% inflow bankruptcy relief. By decision of the High Council of the judiciary in 2009 he was elected judge of the Chamber of Commerce in Zrenjanin, and since 1 January 2010, he has been appointed acting as acting president of the Chamber of Commerce in Zrenjanin. He's married, father of three children. He received 100 votes for these election lists for more and business courts, while a second-placed candidate received 40 votes. Judge Blagoja Jaksic is on the list of candidates for the basic criminal courts and the Higher Criminal Court. He was born in 1957 in Kosovo, Mitrovica. The Faculty of Law in Kragujevac graduated in 1983, passed the judicial exam in 1986, and in 1985 he founded a working relationship at the Municipal Court in Kosovo, Mitrovica, as a judicial intern. As judge of the Municipal Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, he was elected in June 1986, where he acted in criminal matter. In 1992, he was elected President of the Municipal Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, where he served until 2002. In October 2003, he was sent to work at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, and since December 2004, he has been transferred to the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, where he acted in working disputes. From June 2008 to 31 December he was head of the Department of Labour Disputes. He was elected by the college as the best judge of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade in 2006. During 2006 and 2007, he lectured in the field of labour law enforcement, organised by the Alliance of Independent Unions and the Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution. A decision by the High Council of the judiciary on the election of judges to permanent judicial office was elected in 2009 to judge the High Court of Justice in Belgrade. According to the annual schedule, he performs his duties as acting Deputy President of the Major Criminal Court and deals with access to information of public importance. He's married, the father of a child. In the election for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, a total of 308 votes were received by judges for the election list for the basic, criminal and senior misdemeanor courts. Judge Sonja Vidanovic, since the main courts on this list are giving two candidates, is the judge of the basic court in Subotica. She was born in 1959 in Subotica. The Belgrade Law Faculty graduated in 1981. During her studies she actively engaged in sports, volleyball, and was a member of the Yugoslav national team. She passed the judicial exam in Novi Sad in 1984. Since November 1981, she has been a volunteer intern at the Supreme Court in Subotica, and working relationship in the same court was founded in 1982, where she worked until 1984. Since 1984, she has served as a judge for violations in the Municipal Crimes Authority in Subotica until 1988, when she was elected Judge of the Municipal Court in Subotica. She worked in an executive, litigation, and out-of-pardon conference. She was a member of an extrajudicial criminal council, and since June 1994 she has worked as an investigative judge. During her duties as judge, she took part in training judges' trainees and judicial assistants. By decision of the High Council of the judiciary, it was elected as a permanent judge for the Court of Justice of the Basic Court in Subotica, and since 1 January it has also served as acting president of the General Court in Subotica. He is a member of the Judicial Academy Program Council in Belgrade. She was a participant in several expert consultations organised by the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Justice Centre, the Judicial Academy. It is used in English and Hungarian. She's married, mother of two. In the election for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary on the list, 172 votes were cast. From the list of candidates, judges from the territory of autonomous provinces are proposed Judge Branko Bancevic, who is the judge of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. She was born in 1955 in Machvanska Mitrovica. The Faculty of Law in Novi Sad graduated in 1977. She passed a judicial exam in 1978. From 1977 to November 1979, she worked at the Municipal Public Attorney's Office in Sremska Mitrovica, first as an intern and after a judicial examination and as a deputy municipal public defender in Sremska Mitrovica. She was elected in 1979 as judge of the Municipal Court in Sremska Mitrovica, where she worked in a litigatory, investigative and criminal referendum. In 1995, she was elected Judge of the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica, and she was the president of the Municipal Court in Sremska Mitrovica from June 2001 to June 2006. She acted in a first-degree criminal conference, in an investigative conference. By a decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary on the election of permanent judicial office in 2009, it was elected judge of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, where it works on a second-degree criminal referendum. The president is the Criminal Department and the first deputy to serve as president of this court. Since 2001, she has also been hired as a lecturer by the Association of Judges of Serbia, the Justice Centre, the OSCE, the US Embassy in the areas of criminal-processing law, criminal-material law, human trafficking and a plea-recognition agreement, and is now a member of the commission for training judges and lecturers of the Judiciary Academy. The mother is two children. In the election for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the line of judges on the election list, she received 247 votes. So we respected the legal obligation and conducted direct elections. It voted for candidates, their colleagues voted for them, without any influence from the High Council of the Judiciary or any other state authority. So these are the candidates that the judiciary has suggested you choose for a permanent composition of the High Council of Justice. That's what I want to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52050	I thank Mrs. Mesarovic, president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Does the Justice and Administration Committee's rapporteur want the word? No, I don't. () Which one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, wants a word? A few minutes ago, Zoran Krasic called, who has some obligations. Do you agree to give him a head start? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52051	Mr. Ristic could as a representative of the ZES, as a member of the State Council of Prosecutors, the High Council of the Judiciary, as chairman of the Committee and as rapporteur of the Committee on Justice. Wide spectrum, see for yourself. We're full of greetings and wishes from our listeners. On whatever basis you want, Mr. Ristic is indestructible, he can answer. Two wrong assumptions are the condition for today's agenda. The first false assumption is, or perhaps not wrong, but an assumption that cannot be questioned, that all candidates are worthy, professional, have passed BIA control, are reliable, are on their way to the European Union, international standards, all have visited courses. You know, at symposiums, courses only go to bad students; those who didn't learn in college then have to go to the bathroom, learn some things. So these are some assumptions that we can't talk about today, because, for God's sake, it's transformed, an independent and independent judiciary, the judges have decided who should be in the High Judiciary Council, according to certain quotas. Then the question arises – what should the National Assembly do today? To acknowledge that the elections were held in early March, that 91% of the judges who had the right to vote participated in the elections, that some candidates had received much more, that only by this basis, they were majority (this is the basic principle of democracy, as we heard, most of them could do whatever they wanted with the minority), they met all the conditions that they could be members of this body. That organ has, to banalize it a little, two basic functions: to choose and resolve judges. It's like a contemporary French radio show; they say – we've circled, so many thousands of people have been hired, possibly, if there's a place, maybe a child, etc. employee, but it's now a closed system and there's no one to touch anything, because it's all in accordance with the prescribed form. The form was prescribed in early 2009 and because of this form and because of this content we have this situation that according to the payroll we have several hundred more judges than we have by choice solutions. This will Serbia pay, it is under the supervision of all possible commissions, expert commissions; and Venice, and this, and this, and she, they all observe, and our transformation of the judiciary is at an impasse. It is not the main culprit for the failed transformation of the Constitutional Law, as some have said, but simply political will. Someone cares that this is exactly what the judiciary looks like. Why? It probably takes a few more years for all possible actions to go out of date. You don't know who's drinking or who's paying. They were commercial, so business, then trade, so this, that. New organization, new departments, everything. Efficiently solving the accumulated objects. How? By not even being considered. It would be too likely that I am now using individual examples of citizens who appear and show that the bad situation in their cases is being conducted in a court of law. It's a common thing. Each of us here had a chance, if not a few dozen, even though two or three of us have been talking to him for the past few years because they have a problem, a problem in functioning the process, so to make it simple. It doesn't matter how he solves himself, but it's important that there's a problem. That problem can't be solved. Probably those who will vote for this proposal will tell us – when these six come to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, everything will be resolved, there will be no more problems in the judiciary. Perhaps then the debts for these buildings will be settled; it will probably be reported for the money you spent, as the Americans gave you, etc. It'll all work out. No, they won't. He won't get rid of anything again. This morning I promised to take advantage of an example. I'm not going to mention names, I'm going to say, the defendants of the front row - Sjojic, the defendants of the second row - Bank of Intez. I'm standing right here. Mrs. Mesarevic, your transformed judiciary has some judges working on one case. They have shown basic ignorance, that I do not enter those other things, what is the background, the pressures; two law offices, very significant and strong, which are known, which pass in all courts, such as one Draganic or the other -- Tomanovic, etc. It doesn't matter. They're doing their job. Where they're open, they're gonna finish the job, but it's open space. You've heard of Judge Marina Tomic, she's in the Court of Appeals. How many criminal charges were made before she was elected? You in the High Council of the Judiciary didn't pay any attention to that. Now let me explain to you what she's done. I'm commenting on the final procedure. So I'm not influencing the court's ruling, since the court's rulings have been made. You see, the public knows that on March 12th 2008, the defendant of the First Order, and you know who it is, is forbidden to raise credit on behalf of the party, because the parties are forbidden to raise loans. The I.T.B. called and approved the loan. On March 21st, he concluded a loan agreement, that no one knows from the prosecutor, and on June 25, 2008, when the time came to submit a report to the Republic Election Commission on spent assets, the defendant's first row with Bank Intes is making an annex and turning the short-term credit into a long-term one. The loan agreement also talks about construction, and about ecology, everything and everything, but it's not said to have been taken for an election campaign. Nobody knows on the D.A.'s side. Then, in September of the month, the defendant of the First Order invented a dispute, fled and followed by complete bookkeeping, Dusica, Mira and no Arsic, etc., so that in September, in one of the first interviews, he would draw attention to the fact that the opposite ban took credit, so that the funds coming from the budget results in June did not settle debts, but owed even more. And it enjoys protection. (President: Would you like to just bring in the agenda? Yes, with the judges, I'm talking about the judges. (President: Ali, we have personal names and last names. We do, I expect these judges to handle it. I expect these six judges. You didn't catch the connection? I said – these six judges chose judges as the best experts, as expertise is assumed, morality is assumed, dignity is assumed with them. I'm not questioning that. They came here as a result of the vote, and from that vote, they are the most worthy, most moral, most professional, most efficient. I'm rooting for them, and I'm giving them the opportunity to prove to the general public, to all those who will vote for them that they haven't made a mistake in the election, that these six judges will seduce the order, that they know who can be the judge and that they know who can't be the judge anymore, because the shame of the judiciary. I fight not to embarrass our judiciary, I fight that there are no more problems, those inscriptions, I fight for citizens no longer to address political parties and say – sixteen years cannot be ruled, or there is another problem. I just want to draw attention to the fact that we all need to be perfectly honest when we're doing this job, because tomorrow, someone who agrees with that kind of false information, who's willing to go over some of the generally known facts, that this man, as an individual, may become a new victim. Why the new victim? He can be found privately in that situation and say – I was counting on the judiciary, the judiciary was supposed to give me protection. The judiciary is also accounted for by those who are in a business relationship, that very quickly and efficiently one debt-confidential relationship will be resolved, that very soon upon execution to collect what someone owes. I'm showing you this example. These judges say there was no ban. We have proposed witnesses, they say, we are not interested in witnesses. We have proposed all the newspaper texts – we are not interested in newspaper texts. They're not interested in anything. The decision has been made. Who's the one who made the decision? He's not in the judiciary. This Tomićka and those from the Business Appellate were working on someone's dictatorship. By whose dictatorship? So they don't spoil their relationship. What is it that hides that some others also took loans? This one's complaining about you today in Brussels. You were sent by the Cvian, remember? He came in as Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, brought in some little device and recorded it. Smile, ma'am. You were filling out newspaper texts a year ago with stories that someone unauthorized had come, whether by the order of the President of the Republic or by the task of his favorite. You don't know. You've heard how many lawyers, how many former judges have made a political statement. Are you sure if one of these judges is resolved, that after two days he won't show up for who he was working for? It has to do with the agenda theme. It never happened that most people are always right. Political interests are changing. They're changing very quickly. As early as June, many political interests and views in Serbia will change. Keep an eye out, someone will again, as an independent and independent judge, catch the connection. But there are stenograms, there are court decisions, there are clues. When there are clues, then there's usually a lateral mind, so someone remembers what it's done, why it's done, under whose pressure. Maybe somebody's going around the courtroom with a tape recorder right now. Are you sure this isn't happening? Today, the technique has progressed. Perhaps these topics of the agenda are actually just a test of dignity, morality, expertise, and some other traits that should be some feature that must exist. That's our problem. What do you guarantee these six people, as new members of the VSS, will solve these problems? You know, if the highest judicial authorities in everyday activity show that they don't respect regulations, then who can force judges? You pay some judges... Some object because you pay them; I do not object because I believe they have the right to use acquired rights. The fact that your "excursion" failed doesn't need to hit them. The problem of the continuing function of those people who are allegedly not elected cannot be solved, remember. You can make audits, you can do whatever you want, you can't solve that problem. It's not the constitutional law, it's political will. Look at the biographies, look at the dates when someone finished college, when he first came to work in the judiciary, etc. And look at what's written in the law, why someone has to be from only one territory. How many of them are there from that territory? It's pointless for me to talk about who's from what territory, but you put it in as a legal standard. The hump doesn't get right overnight. There's no getting out of this situation where our judiciary is. You know that well. But it will be recorded. There were people here who were MPs a few years ago. We had something similar when Vida Petrovic Skero, president of the Supreme Court, was elected in that building. I think Mr. Ristic remembers. What did we from the SRS tell her then? If anything gets fixed, probably all the laurels will be taken by the minister, but if something happens, it's not good, it'll all fall on your cargo. That's how it happened. Remember, it's the same situation right now. Nothing's been transformed, nothing's improved, it's just become octrocated, controlled on multiple sides. Is there justice there? Are our courts qualified to give justice in accordance with the law? No, because every procedure presents challenges, both on the lawyer's side and on some other sides. You can't solve this problem, you don't want to solve it. Today you've only managed to make judges even more loyal to the callers of justice, who know in advance how which case will end. No one in Serbia wants such justice. What can possibly be done well, in a sea of bad things, you just can't see. There are also honest judges and those who do their job right, but that quality can't be expressed, it can't even be noticed by the public because we're buried with the negative things that are happening in our judiciary. I'll be free to copy this file, send it to these judges, and officially ask them to press charges against these four judges as newly-roasted members of the VSS. You know, we're not gonna stop at that. Every time there's a judiciary, we'll make a point. Now we're going to submit a motion to repeat the procedure, etc., but we're not going to give in, because this is going to have to be stamped. What kind of judge doesn't know what one member and one position means? What kind of judge interprets a decision signed by a man and is authorized by that decision to do something completely different? The judge couldn't see it, he didn't want to see it. And then in the decision of the Court of Appeal of Nebulose to Nebulosis, as if people had neither read the complaint nor the addition of the appeal, nor the first-degree verdict. You think that's gonna go away? It won't pass. And we're going to publish a book about it, with complete court documentation and all kinds of interviews where a man boasted about what he did and how he did, on whose orders and who is protected by the judiciary. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52052	National MP Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52053	Dear Madam President, Madam President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People, I think I interpret the will, expectations and wishes of the largest number of Serbian citizens when I say that we expect an effective fight against corruption, against organised crime and the processing of all war criminals from the reformed judiciary. Because we don't care whether it remains unpunished incentivists for the assassination of Prime Minister Djindjic, we don't care whether it remains unclear what is the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic; we don't care whether the yellow press is involved in corruption and organised crime or whether prosecutors and judges are doing it; we don't care when the war crimes prosecutor's office submits certain criminal charges or initiates certain crimes against persons who allegedly committed crimes of war crimes, and after a while, it happens that the proceedings are being suspended, that those persons are being released, that they are leaving custody and are no longer being prosecuted. We do not care that the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office further deepens and complicates these sensitive relations and problems that exist between Serbia and other countries in the region in terms of war crimes. So it's our interest that prosecutors sue, that judges judge, and all in the interest of citizens. For Brussels, as for us, the choice of judges is only the beginning of reform of the Serbian judiciary. When Serbia and officially becomes an EU candidate, the judicial negotiating chapter will be the first in line. That's chapter 23, which is actually the most complex. The reform of the judiciary does not end with the election of judges. So that's just the first step. Unfortunately, we haven't finished that first step either, because there are still at least 800 constitutional complaints from those judges who have not passed the general election. That should be resolved by September of the month. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court was not very good at solving these constitutional complaints and was not up to the task, because it remained consistent with the dynamics of making decisions - which in a month, which you will allow, is too little when there is such a serious question in front of us, whether we will finally end the general choice of judges. Therefore, when judges are placed on a daily basis before certain controls, when judges have to respond to certain tasks, when they are evaluated, when the various statistics on the quantity of their work are made, on the quality of work, when the level lists of judges and judges are made, I think the issue and the work of the Constitutional Court can be asked, which has not yet decided whether or not to prohibit the work of certain cheerleading groups. In Serbia, when we talk about justice, we expect this judiciary to be truly responsible and to respond to all those demands and expectations put ahead of it. When we talk about the election of these judges for the High Council of the Judiciary, these six judges, I would like to express my satisfaction as a Vojvodjanka and as a Zrenjanka because the three judges are from Vojvodina, and one judge is from Zrenjanin. Of the six possible proposals, three people: one judge is from Subotica, one from Novi Sad and one from Zrenjanin. When we look at the number of votes received by these judges, it is indeed an impressive number of fellow judges who voted for these people, which means that they enjoy a certain reputation in the ranks of their colleagues. In addition to being professional despite being prominent in their environments, they are obviously respected in other areas, among all judges in Serbia's territory. That way I'd single out Judge Alexander Stoilkovski. That's the judge of the Chamber of Commerce in Zrenjanin. A hundred judges voted for him, and the second one got 40 votes. I think it's a very big satisfaction for a young judge if he gets that kind of support from his colleagues and colleagues. I would also mention Judge Sonja Vidanovic of the Basic Court in Subotica, who was voted by one hundred and seventy-two judges, which is also an impressive result. She's second on the rank list. The first is Judge Blagoja Jaksic, who is also on the list for the High Judiciary Council. I'd like to mention Judge Branko Bancevic. She received 233 votes in favour of her colleagues and colleagues, while the second-placed 57 votes. I think that these results are indicators, which we talked about when we discussed a set of judicial laws, that in Vojvodina there are many good judges and that Vojvodina has always given very good judge's staff and that it was unimaginable and unnecessary for so many courts in Vojvodina to be abolished, because the frames were enough, and they could also be shown in those smaller places where we no longer have courts. These judges have a very serious task, first of all, to complete the general choice of judges. They will face a decision on 800 constitutional complaints the Constitutional Court has not resolved and will have to do so by autumn. In particular, these judges will have to make an effort and initiate and demand a reform of legislation in the procedural sphere. They will have to make particular efforts to demand and work to ensure that all courts in Serbia really achieve an enviable level of computerisation, because without it, we do not have an efficient work of courts. In addition, these judges will have to make a major policy on the election of their future fellow judges and will always choose from all possible proposals those who are the best and who will be able to bear all the challenges facing them, related to the future reform of the judiciary. So, I would just add one more thing -- that our expectations are very high, that this is a society in transition, that it's not enough to stop just at the simple choice of judges, that it's just one small segment of the overall reform that we're about to have, that the judicial reform process is long lasting, that it wasn't a short time during which the judiciary was devastated. This is why each of the future holders of judicial functions, as well as these members of the future High Council of the judiciary, are expected to do what they can, according to their best knowledge, to contribute to the success of this judicial reform. Chapter 23 of the SAA is very complex. It is symptomatic that this chapter was put first in the negotiating process. Therefore, it is clear what the EU expects from judicial reform and that it does not want to repeat those mistakes made in the case of Romania and Bulgaria. I remind you that chapter 23 was left for the final point of negotiation. Unfortunately, the results are because there is not enough attention given to this problem, so the judiciary is reformed, and it is also in Romania and Bulgaria today, and so is the major problem of corruption and organised crime. Perhaps this is the EU's experience with these countries good for Serbia, because if we solve this issue in time, these are issues over issues, we can expect the excessive reform of this society, and, on the other hand, faster European integration. To these judges who are proposed for the High Council of the Judiciary we want a lot of success in the work. We expect them to show envious results, results that will be approximately the same, if not greater than those they have shown so far. I am very pleased to be in a parliament where we are today deciding on such an important issue as the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Judges' Court because it is the basis that will create the state of Serbia's future judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52054	Thank you. I give the word to the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected chairman, respected Mrs. Mesarovic, today's decision to elect members of the Supreme Council of the Judges' Board was before parliament, before noon, the election of members of the State Council of Prosecutors. Principleally, I don't particularly like to talk about certain biographies, because, as Mrs. Mesarovic herself said for public reasons and introduced us to some biography, many of us of these biographies, except for some who are very correct, mean nothing, we don't directly know certain people. In particular, one name from this proposal, Blagoja Jaksic, I know and I will say that it is an extremely correct man. What's the matter with me in principle when we're talking about this choice? Mrs. Mesarovic, if in any way I could have influenced the adoption of the law, one of the criteria that could be elected to the High Council of the judiciary, as well as the State Major Prosecutors would have been certain and certain years. So here's why I'm saying this: from some of the impressive biographies that we have ahead of us, we see that people who choose at the most mature age of jurisprudence, when the most they need to bring to justice, and when they have the opportunity to, as they say, best judge, and over a period of five years, we'll practically put them in some phase of stilling. According to my personal beliefs, the threshold should be the end of the career, when it is up to five or eight to retire, both for male and female members, who are present in Serbia's judiciary. Why am I saying that? Not only are we going to lose some people who, if they are the best, choose, because they still choose to choose others. I agree that they will do it correctly because they have certain experiences, but I think that some years, from the 40s, the best, the most productive, when one Justice Dealer can bring the most, and then somehow separate him from the case, we separate him from the trial. I think you'll agree with me here. It might be more practical for some people who are at the end of their careers to have such an honour as to be on the High Council of the Judiciary and, as you might say, to get some rest from a long - term trial. With the vast experience they have, they could certainly choose even better those people who will share justice in this country. It's one well-intentioned suggestion, nothing critical, but I think it'd be better to think a little bit about this kind of choice. I think it's also in the means of public opinion... We've had a lot of newspaper articles, and I'm sure we've heard a lot about it. I think in some situations, when this particular lobbying thing was, it was a little over the top. I think a bad atmosphere was created in the courts themselves. You know, people lobbyed for each other. That's never good. Maybe we should find a better mode, get it sorted out when we pick another one. I think there's a certain atmosphere that's being disrupted after all. You know, I'm lobbying for you, that lobby for that one, but still, after all, we're judging together, we're together in the council, etc. Mrs. Mesarovic, as I said, I will not particularly declare myself about all these candidates. I said I knew a name. It's about a fellow judge who's really correct. Perhaps it is time to say in some mild form that the material situation in courts is currently extremely bad. I'm sure you know that you need to take certain steps with the minister of justice to fix it because there are courts that haven't paid off their duties to the experts, the jurors, before lawyers in their official capacity for a year. We're going to do everything here in particular, to choose judges, but in that general mile, you can't expect the justice people themselves to expect great results if, as is the case now, there are witches who say -- I'm not paid, I'm not going to do the case. It can go in circles. Who puts up with it? After all, it doesn't matter the court, it's the citizens who exercise their right. Believe me, it's really like I tell you in the field. The situation is similar with the jurors. You must find opportunities to pay a court fee, which is not so small... But there's one closed circle, the people don't have the money to cover it all, etc. Now I'm going to tell you that three or four months ago... This is where I got my support from my colleagues from both lawyers and the justice minister herself... We are going to meet to amend the Implementing Procedure Act, but in this context we need to do one thing to make it easier for citizens and for judges and perpetrators and new perpetrators to make sure that something really changes, that the charges on charges, judgments, charges on executions are charged by citizens at the end of the dispute, when everything is charged. You know very well that people are tried, that they pay one, the other, the third tax, and when it goes there somewhere in execution it is usually very rarely executed. People are charged both to the state and to the lawyers, etc. And in the end, they can't achieve someone's right for these or those reasons. Whether it's a bad law on executive procedure (here, we're going to change it now), but in principle, it doesn't seem to be better; it counts on some private executives, some agencies, etc. We'll talk about it, of course, when the time comes. Surely, if the state really means to resolve, it must first and foremost protect the citizens who are entering a dispute. They must have the certainty that it will be... The assumption that something sure will be done is precisely this proposal that I propose – perhaps consider the tax on the lawsuit being launched, and certainly the tax on judgment, on the execution at the end of the dispute. I mean, there are different modes. I intend to give some constructive ideas. I'm sure my colleagues remember when I talked about it, and I know that from my colleague Bosko Ristic, Mr Krasic, and Minister Malovic himself, I've received the support that this is a good proposal. Surely it's time to say that the mass of objects is in execution, only in the King is that number 20,000. But as the president insists, and I certainly won't let him say I'm back on the subject, I'll be back. On this occasion I would really ask you, there is no pressure, we are here in November or December, when we had one specific situation, the Velimir Ilic case and the trial in Novi Sad... In the absence of judgment, you were informed then for the first time, I know that you were not informed about it – ten million dinars. They repeat once again that Mr Velimir Ilic's address, where he lives, was placed for the first time in execution. So he never had a lawsuit, never got a conviction, never had a chance to complain. You will confess, as well as all my colleagues and any citizen of Serbia, that someone who would get a ten million suit would at least answer that complaint and certainly process the matter. Like this, very ungrateful, with an interest of 120,000 euros... You know very well that for the people who died in Kosovo, families were compensated from millions of dinars for some immaterial damage. It's nonsens. I expect you, I'll tell you this opportunity, and I'd like you to do something about it. The request for a repeat procedure was filed two years ago and has not yet been decided. We're going to choose everything here, we're going to do it, but if, in addition to this much insistence on just deciding (no pressure) it can't be done, what will a citizen who doesn't have the opportunity to do one intervention, in the end, point out to the citizens of Serbia what kind of irregularity is going to be? By the way, that judge was re-elected. Look at the first time she's been elected judge, so you'll understand. Once again, I want the judges who are elected to do their job with one remark in this High Council – to really think about it. Laws are written, but laws are not unchangeable. I think she's fine, especially this morning... It's not your direct jurisdiction, but I think even with the State's Major Prosecutors too young, the people who can do the most and who have the qualities, in a way too fast, you'll let me say, in something that's not directly tied up, practically in some administration. That would be my suggestion. I thank you, and to the people who are likely to be chosen, I want success in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52056	National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52057	We were expecting this day when these judges will be proposed to be elected by the Assembly. This will not complete the High Council of the judiciary yet, the remaining elections in this house. As for the names of those who are candidates, if we were to talk about personal solutions, then we would enter into some details that are not grateful for this home, unless we had... As in movies, weddings can say, in the west – who has something to say, say now or forever keep quiet. We don't have any personal objections in that sense that we don't know what kind of particular criticism we're putting on the expense of the candidates themselves. What we're going to talk about here is about the very procedure of choice. The crown of this procedure is here in the National Assembly, and what precedes it is the way the candidates are proposed. When it comes to these candidates, we have two candidates. As one of my previous colleagues said, all pleased to be coming from the AP Vojvodina, but these two candidates are currently in the position of acting judge. That's where one of the first questions comes in. I don't want to talk about it very much, but it'll be my colleague later, when she comes forward during the debate. It's simple, like a kind of title to give. First of all, it is about the fact that someone who received an enormous number of votes by the judges who ran him at the same time at the position of V.D. The President of the Court; it is simply unimaginable that his current position did not have an impact on the number of votes that the judge received. My qualification now does not go into personal qualification at all, when it comes to the proposed candidate. He can be great, I don't know. It may be that any vote that the candidate has received from colleagues who have nominated him for this function is worthy of a vote. It's simply that we obviously love, especially in the field of justice, to work sloppyly, to leave the possibility of different interpretations and certain doubts. That's what we from the Democratic Party of Serbia wouldn't like to see happening. There is this serious and huge problem in the entire judiciary. Without that problem, we would not have had that pressure on our country by the Council of Europe and by the EU to do something in the area of justice. One of the last interventions was very specific and referred to the re-election of judges, i.e. the general choice. There's now a big question as to how what is formally referred to as a general choice can actually be called in the practical reality? Of course, the need to reset has arisen. The way to reset the situation is through the selection of these judges in the High Council of the Judiciary, because the High Council of the judiciary in the new composition will resolve by the objections of those judges who have not been elected. There are hundreds of them, 800 of them who are controversial. However, the problem is in the next. In the meantime, in order to solve the problem, as the National Assembly, we have adopted amendments to two regulations: one on the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the other is the Law on Judges. When we did that, we did it, unfortunately (when I say "we" I mean the ruling majority, but since I am a member of this home, that's how I speak in the first person of the plural), by bringing regulations that are completely questionable from the point of view of constitutionality. Currently, the Society of Judges and some others who have the right to do so, as all citizens of this country are empowered to do so, raise the issue of constitutionality of these regulations. How is it possible that something that has been a constitutional complaint during the night is renamed in a complaint? How is it possible that this objection is resolved by that High Council of the judiciary in which judges have been elected by procedure and in a way that implies that current colleagues who have passed the "reset" i.e. general choice, or essential re-election, actually pick them? What exactly am I trying to say? Maybe this didn't sound easy. For the sake of the public, I'll try to simplify. We had one re-election. In fact, we had a general choice and we had a "reset" situation in the judiciary. Then the "reset" judiciary (means, with those satisfied, I am not talking about unsatisfactory) chooses the High Council of the judiciary, which will decide on dissatisfaction. With any chance that any unsatisfactory request, i.e. The unselected judge will be respected? Maybe there's a chance. Perhaps these colleagues who have been elected High Council of the Judiciary will indeed do their job in the part that the law provides for, although the law is unconstitutional and in an amazing way solves this legal galatias. You know how, and the stupid law, while it is in force, applies; even unconstitutional application can be made, unless the Constitutional Court adopts a provisional measure and prohibits the application of that provision. It may happen, therefore, that the judges elected today to the High Council of the judiciary and their colleagues who later come from other sectors do their job, limited by law, in a correct way, but then we have left room for doubt again. It just means that the proposals put forward by the Democratic Party of Serbia a few months ago, which we have been talking about for years, that the matter must be resolved differently, when it comes to the election, or the re-election of judges, that there is a "reset" that is serious and that has to be done by the end, so that things can be put in the right place, so that instead of the permanent composition of the High Council of the Judiciary, a certain transitional solution, which we must come to by special procedure... We're acting crazy. I know that this will satisfy the European Commission because the European Commission and the monitoring of the Council of Europe in the Committee of Ministers and the one in the Parliamentary Assembly will view this as a favour, as moves that contribute to further developments. But what if we get in trouble again? We're gonna get into a problem because we're not essentially solving it. So it would be really bad for me, I repeat, to speak specifically of names because it's extremely ungrateful. First of all, I don't know these people personally. Thank you to the colleagues who warned one of them to know. It's all right, but this is about principle. I don't know if it's known that the President of the Court can't be a candidate for the High Council of Justice. Can the performer do his duty? Since he's not the President of the Court, he probably can. What is the capacity of the performer, who, by the way, breaks all possible deadlines, there are four or five years in those places? The capacity in reality is such that, according to the judges of the given court, he turns out to be the real president of the court. How can you not vote for him? How? How does this not put illicit pressure on you? After all, how are the candidates presented? Is it enough for them to be presented on the Supreme Council site? Is that the presentation of candidates, that mechanism enough for this kind of choice? I'm not just saying this in terms of an existing legal solution, but at the same time criticizing that solution. I have the right to criticise legal solutions, even when they came into effect, because I am not satisfied with them. It produces certain consequences, and one of these consequences is the one we are facing today. So that's what I'm talking about, and nothing else. When you have a judiciary to whom you have much to resent, it is necessary for the judicial authorities to be irrefutablely elected, without any doubt, in order to remove certain shortcomings in life. They will never be removed to the end. The pressure on the judiciary will always be, as long as the judiciary and the state exist, but let's make them as small as possible. Let us not experience that, say, a special prosecutor through the media informs the public whether or not he will invite someone to a hearing. That's really nosy. That can't be a place in the judiciary. And that's the job of the High Council of the Judiciary, ultimately to look into it. Let's see how it's possible to just let sensitive objects, known to the public, go into oblivion and simply that these objects go towards the deadlines of limitations. First of all, there is a prosecutor, who is suspected of being abused, letting go of his post in the custody of his own time, who later killed the president of the Serbian government, Dr Zoran Djindjic. Then it is said that even in public, it is ignored or politically ignored, this political aspect of the murder, some who are not existing, due to political struggle, are invented. Political struggle and the indifference of political struggle may be a natural thing, but it is not a natural thing for parts of the state apparatus, certain parts of the government's organisation in Serbia, which should be independent in their essence, any of their activities to be involved in these political processes and mutuals. That can't happen. Today, we have convictions, criminal convictions against those who have committed serious acts, which are at such a height of prison sentences that many have commented in the paper as dragon sentences. In particular, it's about the murderers of this unfortunate young man, Bris Taton. In doing so, I am not asking whether this punishment is dragonish, it may sound like a normal punishment for this bestiality that has been made and savaged, but I am asking something else, what will Serbian citizens be asking themselves – are they damaged evenly in this country? Do the pressures on the judiciary lead to the result that the damages are irregular? Could the damaged citizen of Serbia expect the same treatment for himself, that is, his family, for some unfortunate person, as families of foreign citizens can expect? That's what's being asked here as a key question. You have these and similar open questions, from day to day, some of my colleagues have mentioned it. That is why it is necessary for institutions in this country, such as the High Council of the judiciary, to be elected in such a way that neither the opposition in parliament can have key and larger objections either to the election procedure or to the persons proposed. I think this discussion of mine was well-intentioned. I think we should respect each other and think about whether the path we're going is right or wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52058	Do any of the heads of parliament or representatives want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Bosko Ristić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52059	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidents of the High Council and the Cassation Court, the honourable Members of the People, we have come to the stage of the transition of society in which we are trying to build the capacity of the institutions to provide and social pillars of integrity that would guarantee the protection of the rights of citizens, i.e. the rule of law. The High Council of the judiciary is the Constitution established by a state body which provides and guarantees the independence and independence of courts and judges. It is a very important organ in a democratic society that seeks to secure the rule of law. We are currently in the electoral procedure to elect six members of the High Council of the judiciary, election members, in accordance with the law, which are essentially the majority of the members of the High Council of the judiciary and which provide the principle that judges choose their colleagues for judicial functions and that judges decide whether one of the holders of the judicial functions has sinned on the law or ethical code. Also, the very important role of the High Council is that it provides for reform of the judiciary in general. It is often heard in the public that judicial reform is assessed only on the basis of one single segment, which is the general choice of judges. It is now a chance to get the High Council of the Judiciary in a permanent assembly, where members of the order of judges are elected in direct and secret elections. I want to point out to the public that over 90% of the judges who had active voting rights came out of this election. Only passive voting law, therefore, to be proposed as a candidate for the High Council of Justice, was fully facilitated, so that the democratic procedure when the candidates were proposed was such that almost every judge could provide support for its own candidacy. The issue of public and transparency of this process also shows high values in the organisation of the process itself. Candidates were published on the Supreme Judicial Council website, ensuring that everyone's biography is available to every interested person, and to those who have an active and passive electoral right in this process, but also to Serbian citizens who are interested in monitoring this process as a whole. The election committee is made up of members from the judge's office. It also guarantees that the holders of judicial functions have fully monitored this process. I want to underline that there has been no objection to the election process itself. It all says that the process itself was democratic. This process was organised by the reputation of the general state elections. It was voted in boxes, directly and secretly, behind the cover. Anyone could choose the time, for a certain period, when they wanted to go out and vote, so there were no objections that anyone could directly influence someone's position in the vote. So the election, I underline, was free. The whole process was also transparent in the sense that it was accompanied by international institutions and organisations. After the election process ended, we received a very high assessment by the European Commission, which says all European standards on the selection of judicial holders were respected. Surely there are polemics in public. There were also calls from professional associations to have judicial office holders, judges, cast their ballots in order not to opt for some alleged authority to boycott elections and vote, but to conduct the election by drawing up their ballot. I also want to point out as a special fact, very important to the legitimacy and legality of this process, that a very small number of ballots have been annulled in this way. The largest number of ballots was correct. The number of candidates participating in this procedure shows that the procedure was completely free and open. These are assumptions for building the integrity of the judiciary as an institution, that courts will indeed be independent, and judges independent in their trial, work and decision-making. To the maximum extent possible, the depolitisation of the judiciary as an institution has been ensured and the depoliticalisation of the process before such depoliticised institutions has been ensured. For such an intention, we also get support from international institutions for such treatment, but we also get the assessment that the results so far are envious of the countries in the environment, both those who are young EU members and those who want to be candidates in the process. A very good result of a reformed judiciary in the fight against corruption, organised crime, in the processing of war crimes is evident. This shows that we as a society are ready to face the past, to face the responsibility of those individuals who acted alone or through organized groups, to be processed to give victims of criminal acts adequate satisfaction. They're all equal in front of the law. Our courts get a guarantee of independence by having a judicial authority that will be controlled by most members of the judge's office. Plans for the integrity of this institution have been adopted, which means work plans, a strategy covering the work plan of the High Council of the judiciary with almost daily activity plans by 2013. This strategy is proposed by the High Judicial Council in the first instance, but the strategy will also be confirmed by the High Judicial Council in a permanent assembly. The process of reviewing the decisions of the First Chamber High Council will be carried out by the High Judicial Council in full. The decision was made that members of the High Council of the judiciary in a position, which is the minister of justice, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, do not participate in the process of talks with the candidates, so that members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary will, as a matter of fact, refrain from deciding in the election process, i.e. in the process of reviewing decisions in the general election. This adds to the fact that we want to create an institution that will be a strong capacity and that will be able to quickly and efficiently in the next period, by October of the month, to review all decisions and all candidates, both those chosen and those who have not had the opportunity to be elected. I also want to say that the High Judicial Council estimates not only the quality of individuals, but also the necessary network of courts. It identified the number of judicial officials most efficient and qualitatively capable of processing and overcoming the inflow of cases that come into courts. The report on the annual work of Serbian courts for the past year suggests that the High Council of the Judiciary well assessed the required number of perpetrators, bearing in mind that a number of perpetrators would be subsequently elected by the High Council of the Judiciary in a permanent assembly. A code to be ruled by judges has also been established by a disciplinary court, so that citizens will have the opportunity to address, in addition to complaints, the presidents of the courts and the High Council of the judiciary, i.e. the disciplinary court, with complaints against those holders of judicial functions they suspect or have evidence of, it would be better to say, and arguments that the judicial functions do not perform properly. There is also a process of determining the weight of the case, which will be expressed in a numerical amount, so that each judge in Serbia will have the same number of cases, by weight, that will have to be resolved in the appropriate period. It will not be possible for a judge to work twice as hard in a larger court than some small courts, as it was practice in an earlier network of courts. The judges will be evenly burdened. Their work will also be monitored. All that we're doing today, and this is a debate on the candidates that the judges themselves have proposed, is a step forward in the democratisation of institutions. We are under the law under the obligation to consider the candidate's proposal, according to the number of votes they received from their colleagues. Only those who have received the largest number of votes have been proposed by the High Council of the judiciary to consider their candidacy. I personally believe that the judges knew how to propose candidates and that they were responsible for rounding up those candidates who believe they will fight for the independence and independence of their profession, that they will be able to protect their interests in that judicial authority, that they will be able to vote for an independent judicial, judicial budget, which will be managed by the High Council of the judiciary, independent of the executive authorities, that they will also establish independently the priorities and strategy of the work of the High Council of Justice and Justice in general, that they will be able to spend those resources for the education of judicial holders, but also for the construction of young people who are just predicating to be the holders of judicial functions. I want to put this whole process in the context of another fact, which is that there is an institution of the Judicial Academy, which is also a guarantee of the depoliticalisation of the judiciary, because the best students of the Judicial Academy will be accepted into the judiciary and have priority. This ensures that Serbian citizens will have open access to justice and that the holders of judicial functions will be responsible, safe and professional in performing their duties, that they will ensure the rule of law and equal treatment of all persons in the process before the Serbian judiciary. I deeply believe that we are on the verge of getting a fully independent and independent judiciary, independent of the executive, under the watchful attention of parliament, which is required to monitor the work of all institutions and the judiciary. We want to openly criticise the shortcomings, but we have no right to interfere in cases. The cases are decided only by judges based on their knowledge, by law, by evidence, and no one has the right to suggest that a case will be decided. That's why I want to personally support this process once more. You are also here to control the work of the chairman of the Justice Committee, as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, to seek more frequent meetings and contacts with representatives of the judicial authority, but also with the Ministry of Justice and with prosecutors, so that we will all jointly bear the responsibility of public office, in order to protect the interests of citizens and to achieve the principle of rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52060	Thank you. Do any of the heads of Parliament want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the participation of MPs in their application for a word in a single search on the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the High Council of Judges. He has the word National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Ms. Mesarovic, today we are discussing the list of candidates for the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary, the bodies that should undoubtedly have the greatest responsibility for eliminating all shortcomings in the re-election of judges, and we are not sure whether they are proposed under those laws that preceded today's debate and the process of the elections itself, in that we do not know whether these laws are in accordance with the constitution itself. I am saying this because there are several initiatives and proposals for the assessment of constitutionality before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has yet to decide whether this new set of judicial laws of September 2010 is in line with the constitution. Not only did he not make the decision, but he did not decide whether the 2009 Law on Judges was in line with the Constitution. When the situation in the judiciary is already so, the question is logically raised – was it not logical to postpone the application of the Law on Judges for a certain time, until the Constitutional Court decided on its constitutionality? When I say this, I have no intention whatsoever, and at least the ambition to interfere in the work of the Constitutional Court, but I am saying that the situation in the judiciary is more than serious and that the obvious mistakes that occurred in the re-election process itself cannot be eliminated by the fact that another problem will be addressed. I think we can only come to a solution if one problem is recorded first and only after that, if we have the strength, we all get together to solve the same problem. To the extent that the Law on Judges is bad, we, in principle, pointed out as a parliamentary group, are minors attacking every member of it. I would like to remind you that the most we have attacked is Article 5, which provides that the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary will review the decisions of the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. As it was written, it would be absolutely acceptable for us, if the whole process of proposing and deciding the first composition of the VSS was not full of irregularities. When the VSS decides in incomplete composition, when several members in the VSS are in a direct conflict of interest, when the VSS, past the law and past the Constitution, decides to declare its work a secret, when the VSS does not apply the principle of debate, and this was under obligation, when it did not form a ranking of candidates for judges, it is then concluded that this procedure went so far as to address irregularities that no review of those decisions would help it, it was necessary to carry out a full review of the re-election procedure of unselected judges. The most drastic violation of the Constitution, in our opinion, was made when it was said that the proceedings under appeal and procedures under constitutional appeals which the judges who have not been re-elected have been suspended by the Constitutional Court and that these cases have been delivered for consideration, from now on, to the High Council of the Court, and all the addition that the appeals and complaints lodged by the Constitutional Court have now been considered to be an objection. In our opinion, it's the opposite of every idea of law, it's the opposite of basic legal certainty and the idea of division of power. This directly denies the basic individual right, among other things, the right to an effective legal remedy. This provision best shows the will of the legislator who passed this bill, which is now in force. That, I am deeply convinced, distances us from the rule of law and the rule of law. Let me finally say something about what we're discussing today, but it's also argued with regard to the shortcomings that we as MPs have had the opportunity to see. Before it went into the very selection of the permanent composition of the VSS, I think it was necessary to resolve and remove some previous issues that emerged as such, but not in the way that this is expected of those who are running the judiciary today, meaning not arbitrarily, but solely based on certain legal logic and based on facts. I'll say it's not clear how it's possible that 840, if I'm counting correctly, re-elected judges weren't able to participate in the VSS election process, if it's clear that the decision on their status has not yet been made. I'd like you to answer that question for me. Furthermore, if judges who are first elected to a judicial office, not permanently but for a period of three years, are prevented from participating in an election procedure for the permanent composition of the VSS, the question of how is it possible that judges of criminal courts, who, to remind myself, are first elected to judicial office, and not permanently but for a period of three years? So this is about applying the same principle in two different ways. This is about making decisions based on double arches. Of course, this is what I'm saying before the Constitutional Court, despite the rapporteur's proposal to declare this provision unconstitutional, has yet to decide whether this decision is in accordance with the Constitution. Furthermore, the question arises why was the election campaign not organised and arranged in such a way that candidates for members of the VSS themselves had the opportunity to present themselves to colleagues in their courts? It's not enough to give them the opportunity to have their biographies pointed out on the VSS website a few days before the election. It was necessary for judges to get acquainted with their visions of things in the VSS and therefore it was important that they, based on a certain form of their organization, present themselves to their judges. I will remind myself of the fact that, let's say, the first basic court in Belgrade, if I am not mistaken, has 192 judges and it is very possible that many of them do not know each other and that it was necessary to organise, through certain assemblies, stands or in any way, which is in the interest of, I hope, both the VSS and the judicial profession itself, to present those candidates who had the right and the possibility to run for the VSS. It is also bad that it is not provided for the presentation of judges in terms of the degree, type and number of judges and courts they come from. I am saying this primarily because it is not good that among the VSS candidates we have three candidates from the AP Vojvodina (of course, these candidates later passed as a proposal for members of the VSS), so before we know that there is one quarter of the total number of judges in Serbia on AP Vojvodina's territory. Then what happens as a consequence? As a consequence, we have a situation that we haven't had the opportunity to see candidates from the area of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, or the Court of Appeal in Nis. I don't think that's good for the judiciary, and I hope you agree with me on this. What I leave for the end and what I think is very important and what kind of bounces away from a proper election cycle is that there are no notes in the polling stations that would say how many judges from that court had the right to vote, how many judges came out. It is true that, if I am not mistaken, only names, namely the last name and the court from which the judge who received the highest number of votes, and other candidates for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but we have no information as to how many judges went to the elections and how many judges had the right to vote. Because of all the procedural things that I've listed here, and I hope most of them agree with what I've said, only if she doesn't want to be biased, I think it was necessary to remove it before you entered the process of proposing candidates for the High Council of Justice. For all these procedural reasons, we cannot support such a proposal for a permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52062	Thank you. I give my word to the MP Peter Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52063	Madam President, Madam President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the motion for this decision formally meets the conditions. However, what is required by the Rules of Procedure (Article 151) is whether it is in line with EU standards. Although as a Serbian radical, I do not accept it, but from a formal and legal point of view it is now required by the new Rules of Procedure. Now, that we are not wasting time, it is expected that candidates who have proposed will do something effective to make Serbia's judiciary more efficient, celery and economical. I had a chance to meet Judge Milimir Lukic. His qualities here show that he's been through one of the candidates, through the judicial authorities. But when elected best in these organs, I'd best choose to be judges and prosecutors, to solve cases in practice. This is an administrative matter, this is a personal matter, in the short term. When it comes to choice, you well know, Mrs Mesarovic, that it is easy to isolate in the field. If you have in the area of a higher court, say, ten courts, it's not hard to lobby to get votes. I remember the election, how the judges were proposed for years and how they were chosen. They were proposed when the President of the Court called a session of fellow judges of the court and with known methods and ways to convince someone to pass for the judge, someone for the prosecutor, and someone to be president of the court. These 800 judges who haven't been elected, that's where you made a formal-legal problem. What nature? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows the right of appeal for any decision by the state authority. Secondly, it was meant to be with people who were not chosen to conduct talks, transparently and openly. I remember there was talk here about it, when some of them rebelled, that there was talk – well, those who make objections and call us, we'll announce it tomorrow, if they agree. One more thing. I can't say, but in these procedures, it must not be allowed to collect data from intelligence services. The judiciary at this intellectual level and the structure of the judiciary from the basic to the Supreme Cassation Court has the opportunity to look both through the sieve and the solution of every individual who is a candidate for a judge, who is the judge and who is the President of the Court. Mrs. Mesarovic, there have been cases of judgment by order – in one day the verdict falls and in one day it will be legal. There's no protocol. It's the President of the Court's fault, which is what he has allowed judges and administration to do with lawyers and not prevent judicial corruption. After the earthquake, the bombing, following this severe economic crisis, the greatest evil hit Serbian citizens -- the poor work of the judicial authorities. There's a large number of complaints, there's a large number of complaints. I see you stand in that direction to raise efficiency to a higher level. Depoliticization of the judiciary. Have you seen these 800 who have not had the opportunity to be elected, that they have gone out in public and that they are going to some political party to find the weeds or to find future employment or future elections for judicial functions? Do you know what that means? It's a habit procedure. I remember, you weren't the president of the court, when people came to the Justice Department with a memorandum of the political party and asked that a number of judges be elected, because this and that political party, which I strongly opposed, were proposed. Mrs. Mesarovic, when it comes to the work of judges and prosecutors, remember what scandal our state authorities have made, that 1,300 Shipatarian terrorists have been released from prison in Pozarevec, that they have been released from prison by the convicted of Flyor Brovine. I was asked to carry out a pardon and amnesty procedure, which I refused, but then the government decided to release 1,300 of the most radical Shipatarian terrorists from the prison in Pozarevec. That's why the Cypriot terrorists took the opportunity, and my car, which was in the federal justice ministry, on orders from the presidency of the then-SRJ, took Flyor Brovina from a fire prison in Pristina, and was sentenced to a long-standing prison sentence. When selecting the holders of judicial functions in Germany, a resolution is prescribed, a transfer; a disciplinary procedure must be concluded only before the court, if it is the status of the judge. We are not bound by anything, Mrs Mesarovic, to now pass laws and regulations modelling the EU. It's a fabrication, deception and fraud. We do not have the obligation because we are not members of the European Union. Mrs. Mesarovic, you have received a number of questions that our government needs to answer, when it comes to the independence of the judiciary, whose composition includes choice, duration of function and material position. Don't answer any questions. Never to the European Union, as it is, should we give any answers, we should not be their perpetrators and they should be their employers. The history of the Serbian judiciary has come a long way from modern Serbia to today and can mate on the intellectual status of our lawyers, every EU country. It's been invented that England is like a cradle of justice and justice... But we have harmonised all standards, whether we want to go to the EU or not, with international law and have tried to pass the laws in a democratic way. One of these laws is, you remember, the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was the proposal and project of the SRS. To this day some small cosmetic changes and additions have been made, the law is in force. Now a new law is being prepared, it's in the proposal, as far as I know. You see where another serious problem is being created when it comes to achieving the fundamental human rights of our citizens. The law on executive procedure, how will the judges apply what is proposed? We are now hiring a private agency to take over the judiciary. We are introducing that the court enforcer performs some small executive actions, and that the executioner decides and makes conclusions and decisions on the value of the claim, which will move around a hundred billion dinars in some complex cases, and he will not be responsible for the damage done to the citizens, because the state is not responding. He says, "He will answer his property, and there is no such property." What do we do now? So, when it comes to laws, you have the right and the obligation, specifically I say, I wrote about 200 amendments to have that virus thrown out in each member. It's impossible to accept. No one can write laws without long-standing court practice. You can qualify, and the judges who have passed over thirty years of experience, to be in groups and to write and to propose laws, but as the laws come before this Parliament I am convinced that these laws are not consistent, because they are in contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Mesarovic, here are some examples of marathon disputes in the Republic of Serbia. Borvoje Jeremic filed a lawsuit in 1969 for the right to his salary. That lawsuit hasn't ended yet. It's been 40 years. He died, and four lawyers died representing him, and if he died and how many judges or how many judges changed, it's now a matter to check. So, that lawsuit of his lasted in the 20th century, and it lasts in the 21st century. You have another drastic case of the long sea, the torment and the troubles and the costs that are caused by our citizens. The judiciary is therefore an important factor in the legal system and legal order, as one of the authorities. Kuzeljević Milorad from the village of Stublo under the Tornik on Zlatibor, the Municipality of Čajetin, launched the procedure and filed the suit in 1991 under P 250/91, so that the decisions would be taken and abolished, the trial would be extended, judges would receive new cases, solve new cases, strike the lines and the words – here we have solved. In one case there are eight cases, eight numbers were received, according to the following numbers: P 492/91, P 118/91, P 466/91, P 71/05, P 105/07, P 231/08 and P 250/09, which are currently located in the General Court in Užica. This litigation, Mrs. Mesarovic, does not know the end of this case. Who took part, and who is in charge, when will he judge? This citizen, who is a respected man, who is a host, who is in years, asks me a question – will I live because I am in a distant age, that this case should be completed and that I should have a judgment, even if I were what it was? Mrs. Mesarovic, we had almost one example from the village of Nikojevic, where parents killed their son in a truck, ten days before returning from the army; for 33 years, the Belgrade court conducted proceedings for immaterial damage! These are drastic examples. The citizens are looking at you and waiting for the judiciary to wake up. Secondly, why, Mrs Mesarovic, is not a transparent disciplinary procedure against judges? You may file a disciplinary report, but if a citizen submits a disciplinary application, he cannot participate in the proceedings, as provided for in Article 94. The law on judges. Why don't we have a special law on disciplinary procedure? The citizens of you are waiting, looking at you. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is high time that political parties do not propose. No politicization is excluded here. In this direction, we raise the efficiency of the judiciary to a higher level, responsibility and that as little as possible, Mrs. Mesarovic, the media judge, electronically and printed. It is often revealed against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted, who will be heard, who will be arrested. No, it's a matter of court and judge. We want that independence of the judge. There should not go into those waters, because it is indeed ineffective and damaging to the court, but also to the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52064	National MP Sreto Peric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52065	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs Mesarovic, I would like to ask you a question. If you gave an answer and you knew in advance that it would not be made public, the answer would probably be what I think and that I would try to fit my exposure around. I must mention once again, when it comes to judicial reform, the SRS certainly is for judicial reform, but the goal of every state, well-organised, and those who seek to become so, is the rule of law. So we even set it as a constitutional principle or principle. It can be provided with free, direct elections, the guarantee of human and minority rights, the division of power, as we have: legislative, executive and judicial, independent judicial authority (this is what we will talk about a little bit more) and certainly by obeying the authorities above all the Constitution, and then the law. If we were to listen to a colleague of Bosko Ristić's choice of members of the High Council of the judiciary, then we would think there were no problems. Comrade Ristic, you convince us, not with your story, but with 126 MPs. But what happens when they come from the European Commission and tell you certain gaps and ask you – how did you do it? Then you very quickly propose some amendments and additions and the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Law on Judges, etc. In 2008, when it came to the adoption of legislation regarding judicial reform, we showed you that it was bad, that it was not good. We do not dispute your wish, and above all, Mrs Mesarovic, yours, that you have good intentions. It should be as someone who's a professional and as someone who's at the head of the most judicial institution with us that you want to, and I'm not going to get into it to argue with you, but the way it's done, the way it's been approached isn't good. First, and you see it, and I don't expect you to admit it here and talk about it publicly anywhere, at least not while you're in that place, the problem is the network of courts and public prosecutors. You could see in a year and something that was all a problem. You'll never say that. I do not argue, and the Serbian Radical Party did not say that what happened by 2009, with that network, was good, because at the time we had municipal courts that had a president and another judge and when it was needed, it could not be done in that court. Those were really big problems. But certainly without enough criticism, without enough judgments for which state we are conducting judicial reform... It's not done. This kind of justice reform might be good for Switzerland, but for Serbia, it's not right. Now we have a situation that in smaller municipal towns, where the court was a state institution that helped maintain the level, if you will, education, if you will and culture, now that it does not threaten these small municipalities to get the status of local communities. That's not good. You knew that would happen, but you got over it. It doesn't even matter now, it's already moved away and it's pretty much gone from the beginning and it's hard to fix. Whenever you try to get back on track in implementing the judicial reform, you make even greater mistakes, and that is only because you will not make any more mistakes to yourself or to the professional public, or to the MPs to admit where mistakes have been made and to try to remove them together. Here's a sphere in which the Serbian Radical Party would be interested in contributing, but how? By listening to our suggestions, which at a time when it was on the agenda, you would accept the amendments that we have proposed, not taking into account any political conconsequences, but only what is a profession and what is necessary. If we have just agreed that independence of the judiciary and respect for the judicial authority lead to the rule of law, then we must be aware of that. It is particularly highlighted in Article 3. The Constitution – independence of the judicial authority. If that's particularly emphasized, then we have to keep that in mind. But I will never agree with you or any member of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors who is here by office says there was no political interference in the election and appointment of judges and certainly public prosecutors. I don't expect you or your colleague, Bosko Ristic, to confirm that. I did not know what it was about when my colleague Ristic said – we agreed that members of the High Council of the Judiciary are acting by office, and that is, above all, as president of the Supreme Cassation Court, the minister responsible for the affairs of justice and colleagues of Bosko Ristic as chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration... Like, you know, because of objectivity, maybe we didn't get along well, because of objectivity, and because of the desire to do this in the best order, you won't vote or take active part in anything. If the law stipulates that you, regardless of what we think about the function of some persons as members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, then you cannot avoid it because it is now a legal obligation, and it is not the will or desire of an individual, a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. For the first time, it was attempted to come to the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary that corresponds to both the Constitution and the legal procedure. You remember that we're a longer period of time, even though you say that's not the case, you've said it many times... For a long time, the High Council of the Judiciary worked without being in its full composition. This time, after voting on this proposal of yours, we will get six members of the High Council of the Judiciary who are elected from the judge's office. Three will be operational, two and one representative from law school remain, and one in front of the bar. I don't think, colleague Ristic, that the Judicial Academy should provide some high-level professionalization to avoid depolitisation. Do you know why I don't believe it? It seems to me that this first generation to be educated at the Judiciary Academy... and you were ready to receive a lot more candidates than you have now reported. The question can be asked why in the first generation of the members of the Judicial Academy did not receive the number that was spoken of so much to be received? Perhaps by some analysis coming out of the domain of the profession you could see and assume. I don't know which individual with so much power and so much judicial power could have affected that. And then you ran away and you cut back. It seems to me that there are 20 or 22 members of the Judicial Academy. What does that really mean? We from the Serbian Radical Party believe that the Judicial Academy is not necessary for good judges. If we have extraordinary, good students, and they're not a small number, we're proud of them, students whose average is 10, and what's close to 10, if they pass a judicial exam with a distinction, if they have very experienced and good judges, and Serbia has them, what else does the Judicial Academy have? We rightly suspect that through the Judicial Academy... I'm not saying that some of the students won't gain any more knowledge, but why additionally the Judicial Academy, if it's not intended to triage on the wanted and unwanted in our judiciary? If you've already introduced it, you're trying to... There is now some obligation, after the end of the Judicial Academy, to take priority to the judiciary or perhaps to the prosecution. If you're already... The law has already come into force and we can't do anything about it, no matter how much we object when he's on the agenda. Then take care that the students who have mastered that course or that class have priority in the best way. You claim it, I'm not sure. Perhaps someone today is a sympathiser or a supporter of a particular political party, as a member of the Judicial Academy, and when this is over, maybe the parties in power will change and then forget his education, as was his law school and passed a judicial exam and so on. Speaking of judicial exams, Mrs. Mesarovic, I know that you don't decide, but you might want to try a little bit, so that the program for passing the judicial exam will be a fitting moment. I personally think that one commission in two hours, but, well, not to relativize, in two days, and even in two months, let them do that job, that those who lay have no need to wander, that they don't get along. It's very simple and easy to get rid of. Which is why the representatives, or officers of the duties of the President of the Courts, have been in V.D. for so long. A condition? When do you think you're doing this? This is a good opportunity, when you take, I suppose, after our word, to say when I can... Not only because of us, but also because of those who perform that function, so that they know when this condition will be turned into a regular state. Your proposal of members of the High Council of the Judiciary, based on what may be a statistical data and what are their biographies, I like it more than we... Before this part of the session, that is, before this agenda point, we also had a choice, i.e. to consider the motion for a decision, relating to the election of members of the State Council of Prosecutors, and this is something more quality. Their biographies, however, are listed in individual candidates on two pages, and all courses have been completed on three pages. For one of the candidates, who is a student of postgraduate studies, it says that he passed the methodology of social and legal sciences, I said – he should have stood up for all the exams he passed in regular studies at the Faculty of Law, if we are already going to get there. You're here in a different way... However, one of the candidates is said to have been hired by the US Embassy since 2001 as a lecturer by the Association of Judges of Serbia, the Justice Centre, the OSCE. Maybe she's proud, but we think this is completely pointless. I'm not saying that a lady should be punished for working with the American embassy, maybe she's learned something, but this indicator of whether or not we give someone support or not, whether we give our voice, doesn't mean anything to us. You assume what it means, that it can even refuse, even though it's a good quality, but we don't need this for anything, there's really no need for you to write this. You, probably to avoid any suspicions, and in order for that story told by your colleague, Bosko Ristic to be as convincing as possible, try to get these six candidates (though not all) to indicate how many they received votes in certain courts, and how much a second-placed candidate they are. Somewhere the differences are very significant. If the procedure was respected, if everything was fine, then it's irrelevant, one more vote qualified someone to be a proposed candidate. Some candidates left the second-placed number behind, but I find it a little unclear, mentioning one name, at least that's what it says – Mrs. Sonja Vidanovic received a number of votes as second-placed, with 172 votes in total. Whether it's a mistake or not, I don't know. All the other candidates were first placed, so I could understand from this proposal that you delivered to us. It's only Mrs. Sonja Vidanović's, so she doesn't understand... (Nata Mesarovic, from the post: I guess Jaksic is in front of her on that list. ) Blagoje Jaksic, who is also proposed here... Well, then that's the reason. We also see that the order is respected. It may be a desire to get good candidates, although what many before you are, and one part of you, not to say "boiled" (if I say cooked, I put it under quotes), it is hard for these together with you, because you are both a member and president of the High Council of the judiciary, to correct it in the next period. How can you? It's hard, over 800 judges who haven't been elected to solve these problems in a good way. We pointed out in December 2009 that you will not be able to finish this job quality. Perhaps in a number of cases you were wrong, or the High Council of the Judiciary, but to the harm of unselected judges, because you couldn't pay enough attention to that. It was then calculated mathematically, if there were over 5,000 candidates, and one day there was a time limit, working time in one day is also limited, then the question is, how objectively could you look at all the elements that should have been taken into account in the election of judges? Secondly, in my opinion, I don't think the division is rough, but it can be made such a division that all candidates who are not elected can be classified into two groups. In the first group of unselected judges, it is those who really did not deserve to be chosen because they were prone to what the holder of the judicial office should not be inclined to do. It's another group that didn't give you a chance and hope that they could be affected. I care much more about those who are professionals, who will remain, as Sojic said, in "the judge" or will not be admitted to "judic" at all, just because they are not ready to give their honor, reputation and profession for someone who would like to manage the area of justice. I certainly don't think that's what you want. You and by definition must have the most rights, but those who are involved in politics, and certainly have created a judicial picture in Serbia, we will always fight them by not giving our consent and not giving our vote to select such legal holders, even if they chose for members of the High Council of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52066	I give my word to MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52067	Once, Mrs. Mesarovic, I hope you remember that time too, a Serbian citizen, and especially the one from the village, entered a court with a great deal of respect for the institution, I would say with a higher dose of respect, which can also be measured with some awe of the institution. Why is that? Because this court, therefore, was the authority that sent him the invitation to come, to appear before the court, for him was an institution in which he had full confidence, an institution in which he expected him to find justice, honesty, justice and truth for himself. What's the situation today? The high council of the judiciary, whether you want to admit it or not, during the election of judges, so to speak overnight, has done something that has turned the fate of many judges, many judges so far. He has managed to trample on many who have not really been able to step down, to crush many judges who have for years, even for decades built their judicial careers, to trample their expertise, to trample their dignity to perform their judicial function. What happens next? Very often, this practice has shown, from choice to date, that in many cases it places godmothers, friends, listeners, senior students, some "good experts" from agricultural cooperatives, etc. What this means for the justice system and what it will mean in the future, it will only show us the time. The High Council of the judiciary is an independent and independent body, which provides and guarantees the independence and independence of courts and judges. So, as far as the jurisdiction of the High Council of the Judiciary is concerned, I'll just say a few for the public, although the ones I'm not going to read are no less important. So, he elects judges to perform his duties permanently, decides on the termination of the judge's office, proposes to the Assembly of Judges to elect judges during the first election, proposes to elect or resolve the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, proposes to the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Judges of the Constitutional Court, appoints judges of the jury, decides on the transfer, reference and appeal to the distance of judges, decides on the process of evaluating the work of judges and the President of the Court. I say, these are some of the responsibilities that are listed there, although these others are no less important. Therefore, it is not necessary to be a lawyer so that it can be clearly seen from these responsibilities that I have read, so that it can conclude what the Supreme Council of the judiciary is and how huge its role is in our judicial system. Instead of the choice of each judge, and also the choice of each member of the High Council of the judiciary to go through, I say conditionally, three sieves and six solutions, it is very often easily accessible to this problem. Will today's proposed election of candidates, these six candidates for the High Council of the Judiciary, which we have before us bring a higher level of trust in the High Council of the Judiciary? Here, now I'm going to say a few words about that trust. I think it's something that really deserves a lot of attention. Mrs. Mesarovic, trust in the judicial system is something that assumes and causes confidence in a country. I hope you agree with me on this. Trust in the institutions of the judicial system by the profession, therefore, by the lawyers, by the professors of law school, by academics, by legal analysts, is something that by the nature of things in a legal and legalised state should be assumed. I think in the state of Serbia right now, after your reform of the judiciary, that's not the case. The most important form of trust, in addition to what I say we should assume by the profession, is the trust of "end-users", so citizens. It's a trust that needs to be nurtured. It's a trust that every legal state, a country that prefers to be based really on respect for the law, has to take care of it at any moment. What is the citizens' trust in our legal system? What is the confidence of citizens, ultimately, in the judicial system, in the institutions of the judicial system, in the High Council of the judiciary, in courts, prosecutors etc? The confidence of citizens in these institutions is indeed a condition of all conditions. It's simply contitio son qua non for the foundations of a state. It's the same thing I guess we all have to agree on. However, how can we trust that system, from the High Council of the judiciary to the basic courts, when I, for example, can only tell you one case that will surely, me, and those who hear it, and I hope you, convince you that something is wrong? Mrs. Mesarovic, did it happen to you, as an experienced lawyer and judge, during your long career (and successfully, we see) that you have made a judicial decision without holding proceedings? I think this is a bit of an unusual question, don't you think? Of course not. This should not be normal, nor possible, for one judge-holder to make a decision beyond all legislative regulations and norms, to make a decision without even calling parties. It is something terrible, but it happened – the judge of one court made a decision without even calling on the parties, that he did not even call on the representatives of the authorities he led. He did not invite representatives of the Electoral Commission, and made a decision, signed as they forced him to sign; he signed the decision, and applied it further to others, etc. Now, watch out, ten witnesses, Mrs. Mesarovic, in writing confirm what I am telling you; ten witnesses also confirm this in a criminal case that was brought on a criminal record, therefore, confirm and orally, first in writing, then orally, and – nothing. Is that an independent judiciary? Is that the court that we're all after? But watch out for the new pearl, Mrs. Mesarovic: this judge is going after it in the attorney general. If the cream on the cake was indeed complete, the other primary public prosecutor who acted in this case rejected the criminal report, there is no place of responsibility for it or any of the others who were in that chain, etc. It's really scary! I'd like to, since this process has already been completed, to provide you with a complete case, just to look at it, in addition to my claim of respect or disrespect, of a legal system like this and like that, so you can see if what I've told you is true. Furthermore, what kind of trust can be talked about when he implements the circumstance that the High Council of the Judiciary used some inappropriate methods during the election, that he used BIA data? You know, a lot of people have denied it, but the worm of doubt has woken up, so now that worm is biting you, but there is. I think that should have been denied and presented in a different way to the public. Furthermore, what confidence, Mrs. Mesarovic, are we talking and can we talk about when a professional organisation of judges prepares, or has already prepared, a criminal complaint against you because of what they say are inappropriate accusations at the expense of individual judges who have not been elected? What confidence can we talk about when a professional association also claims what we once said, that judges who have not been chosen are denied the right, one, and that is constitutional and legal law, to declare all objections to their professionality and dignity in performing a judicial function and, under two, that they have not been given a concrete decision with an explanation, especially for any unselected judge? (President: I will still ask you to stick to today's agenda. We're just talking about very specific names today. Are these names among the names mentioned? Here, I'll tell you now, Madam President. Try to catch a thread with what I said. I asked, if you listened to me carefully, in just one sentence, would the election of these six representatives of the High Council of the judiciary improve the work of the High Council of the judiciary in these cases that I have listed? So that's the thread that ties today's debate to this. Furthermore, what confidence in the High Council of the Judiciary are you talking about, and in full composition, with these six candidates, which you will certainly choose, in whose expertise I would not particularly enter, when you, as chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, were at one point not clear certain things regarding the proceedings before the Constitutional Court? I hope you remember that, as well as the decisions of the Constitutional Court you received. In fact, you claimed that the procedure was conducted unfounded, whether or not, and that such a procedure was not foreseen at the time of the election. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court made one decision explaining that the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court was explicitly established by the Constitutional Court Act, and that this same member, therefore Article 100, established the principle of debate. I think you remember this, so I'm interested in how to determine the High Council of the Judiciary, and in this form when he's elected, and he'll probably be elected, on these issues? Furthermore, what is the situation, Mrs Mesarovic, on the basis of criminal charges filed by unselected judges against the High Council of the Judiciary? You should say something about that, too. Regardless of what we're going to get from the High Judiciary Council, to say in full scope, this is something that comes from an earlier period, so you might want to look back a little bit. Given that, they say, some false data from the Ministry of Justice have been used consciously, so this case has been given to the Special Court, I would like you to refer also to the information why the Special Court. So, Serbian citizens need to know, whatever decision is made under this, there's something wrong. It's clear to everyone that there's something behind the hill. The possibility of having a pretty big mess in the justice system is also indicated at the beginning of your so-called so-called justice system. reform of the judicial system. You didn't listen to us. I suppose you won't listen to us any further, but I guess something else -- that's how you're going to get through, it's clear that you will, conditionally speaking, try what you've cooked, as it is. We will continue, at every moment and every opportunity, to criticise what we believe is not good in our judicial system. It's yours to accept it or not. If you don't accept it, it's normal, the full responsibility will be on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52068	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52069	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, because of other obligations, I was not here when Mrs. Nata Mesarovic explained these proposals, so I don't know if she was more creative than Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac, who informed us in the morning about the prosecution's proposal by reading everything we've already received. I listened to Mr. Bosko Ristic's VSS member, so first I'm going to comment on the interesting parts of what he was saying. He said the election commission for this proposal was among the judges and that it was a guarantee that everything was absolutely in line with the law, regularly, etc. That fact, unfortunately, in these circumstances cannot in itself be a guarantee. It's possible it isn't. But that guarantee is just the fact that they're judges, you'll see further debates, and you've heard from your colleagues from the SRS before me how much the fact that a judge can't be a claim that he's professional, and especially not that he's moral... You say it was voted in boxes, like in the right elections, and that's guaranteed that no one could influence. This is so amazing. You know, in boxes you vote on, say, parliamentary, local elections, etc., and then your party's representatives, Col. Ristic, wait for people outside and give them a round ballot, and then ask them to take a picture by cell phone to prove they've returned that kind of ballot. This really isn't an argument. If you thought you could convince us, you failed. Furthermore, you say you have secured the depolitisation of the judiciary and that you have positive estimates from any international organisations you mentioned here. First of all, you don't have such grades, at least they've never been published in public, but all the opposite. These internationals of yours kill you with negative assessments when it comes to judicial reform. Of course, we don't pay attention to their views, but we know that your judicial reform is disastrous and that you didn't provide a depolitisation of the judiciary, but rather the opposite. Also, in the course of further discussion, we'll show that on examples. You're saying it's a good thing that the judiciary is at that level that they've accepted dealing with the past, so they're pressing charges and being tried for war crimes, etc. I don't know what you're bragging about, do you think the fact that Purda got rid of responsibility? Is it to face the past, that someone who killed Serbs in Vukovar be freed, and someone who is suspected of some war crime of another kind, there is facing the past something that you admire? So, also completely missed thesis. What is particularly interesting, you say – members of VSS by function, you colleagues Ristic, Mrs Nata Mesarović and Mrs Snezana Malovic, will be exempt from talking and deciding with candidates who have not been re-elected, because you also got by the fingers, so you had to do so, even though you had been saying for a year that it was all regular and you wouldn't question anything, so when the boss ordered you to do so. What's interesting to us? Why won't you take part in it? Do the other members of the VSS have no confidence in you, in your moral integrity, in your objectivity or are you not sure of yourself? We don't expect you to make up for it, we expect you to do the job heroically, so you can go to this parliament and to the public of Serbia and say, that you claim, as you said a year ago, that everything is absolutely without error, so when you've been notified from some commission... Remember, I read here a letter received by Mrs Malovic, which was addressed by "Dear Madam Minister". Don't act like one. Remember, don't let us remind you of the stenograms, what you said. You claimed more than once what you claimed today, so they denied you, so you covered yourselves with ears, and you made amends. You're saying something again today. Here, we trust you and insist that the three of you be at the end of that job, and we'll talk about it when you're done. Don't get out, it's not nice, it's not correct to the rest of the VSS. You've reached the judge's code of conduct. That's quite a cruel advance. A disciplinary court exists and that's something that's very important. Now I'm going to offer you both the High Council of the Judiciary and that disciplinary court, some judges, and see if they follow our proposal. There will also be an official proposal, but the public will be familiar with it, just so we can talk to the public for a while, see how the judges function by code and how they function when they know they have a disciplinary court. I guess it's enough for the judges to have the law to apply it. There's no need to organize them that way. What did you predict, how to dress? We know about that part of the code. Measurement of the weight of the object. He says you've done it to measure the weight of the object... I don't know what scale you're measuring objects on, and who's doing it? If someone's going to deal with the weight of the case, colleague Ristic, I don't know what's funny... If someone is measured by the weight of the object, then it must be from beginning to end in that case. It means every case will have a double judge: one that will measure, one that will judge. It's really out of your mind. That's how you want to convince us that you've achieved, you said yourself, the even burden of judges in this new network. You're not. First of all, you cannot be evenly burdened by those who travel to work 30 kilometers because you have made such a network of courts, compared to those who live in a place, in the seat where the court is. Let me mention these which we strongly recommend to the disciplinary court, and also to the High Council of the Judiciary, both of them. They were mentioned by counterpart Krasic, but I simply cannot resist not to mention those names. Maybe they came from work to hear us mention them. These are: judge of the Court of Appeal Branislav Goravica, Đorđe Jovanovic, Dragoslava Vukicevic and Marina Tomic, judge of the Court of Commerce, or Judge of the Trade Court. These four of your judges hit the constitutional order of the Serbian state the most. They decided that political parties could take credit, which is absolutely contrary to the Law on the financing of political parties. The parties can finance themselves from the budget and can make certain donations. Exactly, it's determined exactly how much a natural person can give, how much he can give a legal person. The third way of funding doesn't exist, and they decided it's possible. They even accepted that Tomislav Nikolic had authority, which they had never seen before, because they could not see him because he did not exist; on the contrary, he had an explicit ban on Vojislav Seselj to take credit, and Vojislav Seselj is, according to our statute, the only authorised party representative. So if you show on this case that you have a disciplinary court, we'll believe that you've improved the situation in the judiciary a little bit. Or, now I risk being sued by someone from the Corleone family, but here, I accept the risk. Item 2 of Article 103. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility for a voiced opinion or voting in the performance of his parliamentary post. “ This means that the MP cannot answer for what he says about this speaker, not criminally, not materially. He can answer to his political party if he has messed up and can, along with his political party, answer to the citizens in the elections. It's the only responsibility of the MP. The other doesn't exist and shouldn't exist. Our colleague, Jadranko Vukovic, has brought some facts out of this place for someone from that family, for Alexander Vukic. He said he was hiding councilmen in the Zemun municipality in his house in the Lambs, which he had kidnapped to cross over to the Serbian Progressive, his party, and that is absolutely true. He sued and said, he sued Jadranka Vukovic... Not him, but Dad and his brother were sued, because their honor and reputation were injured, because that house wasn't Alexander Vukic's house, but his father's, as it was called... You could almost read in the media that someone broke into that house, so he was in that expensive winery, and he was picking on the computer, and then Vukic said it was all happening in his house in the Eggs. Why is all this important to you now, Mrs. Mesarovic? Because the judge in this case is a certain Ana Milosevic. It's the Court of First Instance. That lady is in very close contact with Vladimir Cvian, the one who illegally recorded the conversation with you. Otherwise, he is, for your information, close to the Karic family. Under his influence, Mrs Milosevic literally threatens Jadranka Vukovic and his lawyer at every hearing. It's very fast, every 15 days it schedules trials, which is commendable, if it were well-intentioned. No witness proposed by counterpart Vukovic accepted, but accepted all witnesses proposed by Dad and Brother Corleone. On the contrary, you have, say, an object that hasn't been scheduled for a year. Mr. Sesum Petar asked, probably the man had no intention of saying anything, but literally asked, he said – if you can urinate with the minister or Mrs. Mesarovic only to schedule a hearing, a year was not scheduled in the case 47-542/10. There's obviously a problem, you didn't do this job well that you called reform. Of course, as far as the SRS is concerned, there's nothing good about it, because we have a completely different view of the courts. We are absolutely against various special courts, prosecutors etc., because even now in your case (I don't mean you personally, but God, you yourself) turned out to be party courts, that these courts are in the function of the current regime, that you do the same jobs for a lot more money than other colleagues. It's quite the opposite of the SRS's position, but well, now someone else is in power and has the right to work, to choose, to arrange the courts the way he thinks it's best. Now for a short time, how much time there is left, about these suggestions. This Mirjana Ivić, among other things, is a member of the Billene judicial practice of the Supreme Cassation Court. This feature is not very important, but it received a total of 40 votes for this election list of the Supreme Cassation Court. Its 40 votes are 55% of the total number of votes. Compared to the others we're going to mention, that 55% might not be so bad. We have Milimir Lukic, he's one of the "specials", and that's something we're absolutely against. You commended him here that he was a member of this council of yours who was tried for murder (not your council, was he? ) Zoran Djindjic. That's what you've been remembered for, Mrs. Mesarovic, according to "We've received a verdict". It will indeed remain recorded for all time. Although he participates in cases where he gets a conviction, it's not a recommendation for him to do this job. It would be good, since every year around the anniversary of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, a question of the political background of his murder is being raised, to use your authority and to take down that burden – you have received a verdict, so that you can run it truly, along with counterpart Zagorko Dolovac, a true investigation, to force them to give you information from these illegal BIA actions: "Cactus", "Shumadija" and "Match". This is where all the data is hidden about the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. Look into that, Mrs. Mesarovic. Milimir Lukic received only 29% of the votes. So those who voted for him didn't really appreciate him very much. Alexander Stoiljkovski got only 25%. Somehow, it tells me, especially if a colleague of Bosko Ristic says that the guarantee is that the judges voted... If that's really a guarantee, then how can someone get only 25% and you guys here give him this much credit? Blagoje Jaksic got only 21%. One of his characteristics is that he acted in labor disputes. Do you know, Mrs Mesarovic, that your work disputes have not moved from a dead end? Do you know that working disputes continue to be conducted for more than two years? Do you know that disputes about labour abuse, so-called. mobbing, water for a year? For a year, no party has been invited to complain about the mobing. I guess that's supposed to be the process that ends quickly, huh? So this isn't a recommendation, and it's clearly recognized by his colleagues, who gave him so many percent. Sonja Vidanovic. You say, during the course of her duties, she took part in training judges' interns and judge's assistants. Well, I guess that's what all the judges do, huh? All the judges are attended by judges and assistants, and I guess everyone is training them, not only Mrs Sonja Vidanovic. But you didn't have anything else to say to her, because the poor thing only got 12% of the votes of the total number of those who voted. That's not a recommendation. I have one question, with a fence, very much. Namely, I received a message as my colleague Krasic spoke, someone informed us by message that this Mrs. Vidanovic, I assume you know, only worked four hours more years, for health reasons, and that she had simply healed to be elected president of the court. So I'm saying this with a fence, if that's the case. It would be good if you checked it out. If not, I apologize. Branka Bancevic got 57%. Most of all. It's a mistake not to mention her. Why? She was also hired as a lecturer by the Society of Judges, Justice Centre, OSCE, US Embassy, etc. This is what I end up with. We don't think anything's gonna get any better once you fill out the VSS with these personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52070	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not yet used the right set out in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Mrs. Mesarovic, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52071	I'm just going to put it out for a little while, since the question has been, how many voters were there for these proposed candidates? In order to avoid suspicion of how many people have come out, I have here written: the electoral list makes up a total of 2,087 judges, with this number of 509 judges also having the right to vote for the list of candidates from the territory of autonomous provinces. Of this number, of the 2,087 judges, 1,912 judges voted, accounting for 91.61%. Mrs. Verica Radeta had just provided a percentage of the number of candidates who received the votes. I must say that you have voted in this House to propose to the National Assembly a candidate who receives the highest number of votes. So much for that. We respected what you brought here in the congregation. I am sorry that there is no representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the lady who spoke about the initiative before the Constitutional Court and the decision to review the constitutionality of certain legal provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the Law on Judges, simply because if the Constitutional Court adopted the initiative, that does not mean that the provision is against the constitution. We'll wait for the Constitutional Court's decision on that. Of course, the other day I wrote a letter to the President of the Constitutional Court and asked the Constitutional Court to act on an urgent procedure and not to put the VSS in a position to work and to decide on something, and that one day later we would get a decision in the procedure where the decision was taken to adopt an initiative for the assessment of constitutionality and legality. As regards any other objections to the exemption of members of the Council, as discussed by MP Bosko Ristic, a member of the High Council of the judiciary by position, you know well that there is a legal solution if there is a suspicion of someone's bias for certain reasons and there are always reasons. These include the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of the judiciary. Of course, where there is such a suspicion, and the doubt has been expressed by judges who have not been elected, there is the possibility of not participating in a conversation with members, unselected judges. As for the constant mention of the problem that 847 judges have been deprived of voting rights to choose a judge, you know how, you know what your legal solution was, how they were suspended by a judge's duty – based on the general election, by law. I explained that many times in the congregation. But there's something else I have to tell you, it's not a problem in the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and what they're going to vote on now; that first composition of the High Council of the judiciary was also voted by those 840 unselected judges, and these are colleagues who were then given a large number of votes. Some colleagues who were then in the High Council of Justice also voted for them. You can also take the minutes from those sessions and see how they proposed these candidates. So they trusted their work, professional and moral credibility and everything else, so they were assumed to have trusted in their work in the High Council of the Judiciary. You mentioned several times that when the judge was elected, the data was used by the BIA, the MUP or I don't know any security services. I would ask you not to mention this as a topic anymore, because you know that the Commissioner for Public Information was in control of the work of the High Council of the judiciary when such information appeared in the media and yesterday you could read, if you had not done so before, that there was no use of such data in the High Council, nor could he have found evidence or any evidence that such data had been used. Whether it was used by a state body, a state's major prosecutor or anyone, about these circumstances I can't plead, I can only talk about what the High Council of Justice did. Is the reform well implemented? You can see for yourself that there are objections from the European Commission; of course these remarks are not, as someone likes to say on a flat-rate basis, in relation to the procedure of the High Council of the Judiciary. I responsibly claim that the High Council of the Judiciary respected the Constitution, the law and decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of whether or not he agreed with them, and that we did not begin any work on the implementation, as someone said, of your reform of the judiciary until we had so. I didn't interrupt the continuity of the judge's office to anyone, it was the Constitutional Court. Neither did the High Court's advice. Gentlemen, we acted on what was a legal solution. After all, you yourself saw that you had passed some wrong laws, so you made an urgent decision to amend the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. I don't like to transfer responsibility. Anyone can be held accountable for what they do. One of the SRS MPs said criminal charges would also be prepared. It won't be the first to stand against me, there was that, and while I was working, as Mrs. Radet said, in the Special Court. I'm not used to it, but simply, no one is above the law and I accept every responsibility. Some speakers here in the congregation looked like professional associations. There is no reason to try to represent professional associations, they are professional and can represent themselves, they can hold talks with the High Council of the judiciary at any time; never has the High Council of the judiciary refused to cooperate with the professional association. But it is surprising that in this procedure, when we elected judges, the leadership of the professional association calls for a boycott of the election, to be crossed, as Bosko Ristic said, and when the experts of the European Commission come, they ask us to include them in the work. I think it's incorrect, because no one's ever been locked up for any co-operation. But time will show what the High Council of the judiciary was doing in the first class and I as his representative. I'm here today... I can't say that I had a personal satisfaction, because it can never be a personal satisfaction, but I'm sorry that Mr. Aligrudic couldn't get the strength to publicly say what he told me when he approached this bench where I was sitting and when he apologized if he was ever rude to me or said something that might hurt me. Thus, as the People’s proverb says, “Suffered is saved, ” and in the end, it will be seen how much it is and whether the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary has ever been wrong, in which these mistakes are made. You must understand that it was not our reform, it was a national strategy for implementing reforms in Serbia's judiciary. Everyone estimated that it was necessary and everyone contributed to it and some failures. International standards must be respected. The high council of the judiciary will respect them. He will try to do whatever it takes to prevent Serbia from getting a bid to join the EU. I ask you to bear in mind that the profession has chosen these candidates, and they have not been proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary, nor by the Minister of Justice, nor by the President of the High Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52072	The Presidents of the Supreme Cassation Court and the High Council of the judiciary thank you for your participation in the work. Mrs. Radeta had a replica. Here you go. You won't have five minutes, you'll have two minutes. I think Mrs. Mesarovic understood you quite well. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52073	The main reason I volunteered for the replica is because I missed the microphone while Mrs. Nata Mesarovic spoke, and the whole time it was written below her picture: The Belief of Radeta, SRS. We're very different. For the sake of the public, Nata Mesarovic spoke and praised the reforms, and Vjerica Radeta, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, gave rise to reforms. That was the basic reason. By the time I got back, then let me tell you, Mrs Mesarovic said she was surprised why we criticized the choice, the percentages, etc., because it was only done in accordance with the law that you made. Yes, this parliament passed the law, but Serbian radicals were against the law. As we criticized him when he was brought in, that's how we criticise him now. In application, it just turned out he wasn't really good. You said that the three of you acting as members of the High Council of the judiciary didn't want to participate because someone expressed reasonable doubt that you were biased. It makes sense, it makes sense, but it's interesting that it doesn't usually happen in courts. For Ms. Ana Milosevic, mentioned earlier, there was also a request by lawyer Jadranka Vukovic for exemption, for the same reasons, with very concrete remarks; a very fast court decision was made, or the president of the court decided that there was no room for exemption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-17-0.u52074	With the conclusion that the MPs today obviously had the need to apologize for their failures, here, Mrs Radeta forgot to turn off the microphone, and Mr Aligrudic for the relationship with Mrs Mesarovic, who has shown himself in this room, let me thank both MPs and Mrs Mesarovic for her participation in the work. I'll remind you that we'll continue the work, according to the Rules of Procedure, on Tuesday next week, at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 90 MPs in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Zoran Krasic, please.
