ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55517	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. To determine the number of MPs in the electronic voting system and those present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly prescribed working conditions. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs present in the hall, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says in its first position, that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the National Assembly, except at the meeting of the National Assembly. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, shall have the right to exercise it at the session of the National Assembly orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask – does any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286(2)? Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Marija Bulgarčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55518	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister of Education. In the municipality of Razanj, the LDP municipal board launched an initiative to collect signatures to open a high school department. We know that Razanj municipality is a small municipality and it's just scandalous that the municipality has 11,000 inhabitants, and it doesn't have any secondary school departments. About 1,000 signatures were collected and sent to the competent ministry, i.e. The Ministry of Education. The LDP municipal board and the citizens of Razanj municipality agreed to turn the municipality, a high school agreement. About 1,000 people signed a petition and made a deal with local presidents of other parties. Razanj municipality is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities, has neither large nor medium-sized enterprises, every 1,000 employees barely have 96 employees and are among the most underdeveloped municipalities, as well as the entire south of Serbia. We of the LDP believe it is necessary for the Ministry of Education to meet the citizens of Razanj municipality and open a secondary school department, which has been abolished and has been missing for the past four years. In addition, we add that the current eighties are about 80, and students from first to eighth grade also have an average of about 70-80, which means there is a possibility that the secondary school department can be opened in the municipality of Razanj. What I was about to add is that we have a law on young people coming up. The law says there are principles of support for young people and the principle of equal opportunities. So I ask the ministry is it possible that a young man from Razanj municipality has the same chance as a young man from Belgrade? We therefore believe that it is necessary for the Ministry of Education to open a secondary school in the Municipality of Razanj, and only when the principle of equal opportunities is implemented, i.e. When young people are allowed to attend high school, then we can talk about the principle of equal opportunities. We are a technological and educational land, and we are standing somewhere in the range of the most underdeveloped by education. We're a vice-sampion on a brain drain and a country from which young people leave every day. We appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to the Resolute Ministry to help these citizens and to meet them and at least what this government can do is to open up a class of any high school in the municipality of Razanj. If the state can pay 50 million subsidies to fail JAT, then we don't see a reason not to pay and donate certain funds to open up that one department. Once again, we appeal to the Minister of Education to take a good look at this proposal and to help all citizens of Razanj Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55519	Who's next to the word? National MP Nikola Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take this opportunity for the first time to try to ask or formulate a question to the Prime Minister, Mr Mirk Cvetkovic, and believe me, it will not be easy for me, because I am completely baffled by the answers I received from the government in the meantime. It's about the next one. In 2008, it was tried, there was an attempt by a group of people to form a college, as modern as it is, for European studies and engineering management, it was in June 2008 and, of course, people paid the Commission for accreditation and quality check as much as it needed to obtain accreditation, 1.55,000 dinars. Somewhere in April 2009, in continued co-operation with the Commission, which I have only words of praise, it was found that the university would not be able to be established, so in April, the payer asked for money and documentation to be returned. The Commission immediately responded and issued a warrant, or ordered the return of funds, in September 2010, this order was forwarded to the Ministry of Education, the Finance Sector, assistants Bojana Mitrovic. Of course, nothing was going on, so as an MP from Novi Sad, the payer asked me to intervene to get these funds back as soon as possible, because they were standing at the Ministry of Education for no good reason or reason. Thinking that it was a purely technical thing, of course, I turned two or three phones, convinced me that everything would be fine, as it was then, so it is today. But in January, I asked MPs questions and asked for official notices from all the participants in this, let me say, galamatias. First, I got a very neat explanation of the accreditation and quality check committee that I was talking about. Then I received a reply from Minister Diana Dragutinovic that the Ministry of Finance had nothing to do with this case, that it was the Ministry of Education's jurisdiction. In order to finally receive a reply from the Ministry of Education after three repeated questions yesterday, which literally states: "The 2008 accreditation funds in the Ministry of Education and Science's business books are recorded in economic classification 321311", as if it were of interest to me. "With regard to the release of vomiting, we inform you that from that classification it is not possible to execute vomiting" Now is not worth asking the Minister of Education, he is a man who does not understand this, but is worth asking the Prime Minister. So, Mr. Cvetkovic, other people's money lies without any basis on classification 321311 at the Ministry of Education. What's to be done to get that money back to the owner, who, by the way, doesn't want to sue his country, doesn't even ask for interest? If they had answered me that the money was in the minister's pants, but if he hadn't worn those pants for a long time, so he couldn't bring them back, I could believe it, and it would be logical for me, because one day he'd be wearing them, so maybe we'd meet up and then he'd take out the money and give it back to me. It just seems like it's regrettable for everyone else's money that no one can pay anyone back. Be careful when you're paying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55521	The word has an MP, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55522	Now I don't know how to start, get confused, and be careful when you're paying, I'm really glad to hear and see that finally the MPs from the ruling majority see what the government's attitude towards us people's MPs and the National Assembly is, let's get over it, but as it is to citizens, business people, entrepreneurs. By the way, my dear colleagues, I haven't had an answer in over a year to a single question, in fact, I am one of the Ministry of Sports, about the Sports Act, and all the other questions I've asked I haven't been worthy of getting an answer, let alone being baffled by that answer, I haven't been able to do it either. I have a question for Mr Cvetkovic, and it is very simple: is there an area, some activity in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which he runs, this reformed, reconstructed, in which this government has a common policy, a clear policy of all coalition partners in it? I think it's a very simple question and that Mr. Cvetkovic should answer me, but not only to answer me as it stands, but to tell me which area it is. We owe each day as a state of new loans, more and more, we know that as a state, we can only repay that debt by increasing production in industry, agriculture and increasing exports, but we lead such a monetary policy to absolutely destabilise exports. On the other hand, they say a strong dinar, and now it's going to fall prices, so that doesn't happen. They do not fall prices, so those ministers who announce it, turn out to be inconsistencies in their statements, because no price has fallen, regardless of the euro-delivery ratio is now 95, and before a month or two was 107. So that's what citizens can confirm, that it's not the only item that's cheap. You keep talking about the increase in GDP, and we hear it's fallen, so you talk about new jobs, you yourself admit that 200 grand has been lost, and the IMF says 400,000. As far as the plan is concerned, is anyone doing anything except that fellow MP Mladjan Dinkic is still going through Serbia, as if the minister is also visiting factories and talking about new jobs, but it is an MP, it is not a minister, it is not the government. There's something wrong with the government again. Should I talk about Minister Dacic's statement about KIM and the division of KIM, and then we hear a statement from Minister Jeremic, so what is the government's policy in that area? Or is it true what the PUPS said a half hour ago, a senior member of the coalition PUPS party, that the PUPS relationship is such that PUPS has 6%, and the SPS 5% voter support in Serbia, I heard it half an hour ago by Milan Krkobic, and then Dacic came to this level to serve as a test balloon to Boris Tadic and that he can say anything anyway, will not bear any consequences for it, to see Boris Tadic if he can talk about the division of Kosovo afterwards, because what damage to Dacic when he has only 5%, he can say it, and what is the government's policy? Is the government's policy what the Constitution of the RS says, congregation decisions or that we can only share Kosovo, regardless of what two-thirds of citizens don't live in northern Kosovo, regardless of what we know to open up the issue of Presevo, Bujanovac and who knows what else, so long as you just say, and without any serious preparation really seems unserious to me. So the question for the Prime Minister is, is there one single area in Serbia where the government has a coherent policy?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55523	The word has an MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago, I was given the opportunity to read that the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, who knows what time recently, has shocked the Serbian public. In fact, it has succeeded in a certain kind of legal acrobatics and an incredible skill of self-indulgence, reminding Serbia that it is a captive state, which every memory of war crimes and its victims will cost a lot, and in any case it will be banned. So our Prosecutor's Office decided a few days ago that it would be better to refer the case to Mladen Bajic, a Republic prosecutor of Croatia, where he is charged with a terrible war crimes of persecution of Serb civilians in the infamous Croatian state camp Lora, to him, so that he can decide for himself in this case. The Serbian prosecutor thus, refusing to prosecute the case, has effectively covered up the crime, knowingly concealed the crime, allowing Mladen Bajic to decide for himself. I really don't understand what the Serbian prosecutor's office meant in that case. Did he think that Mladen Bajic might say yes, yes, I am a war criminal, and in 92, as deputy military prosecutor, I decided which Serbs would be imprisoned in the Lora camp, I decided on how they would be tortured beastly, how they would be abused, and at the very end of the day which of them would be killed. Just imagine what kind of legal absurdity this is, what amount of insolence, what amount of absence of the elementary national consciousness and feelings of any empathy towards the victims who are summed up in one person, in the person of the Serbian war crimes prosecutor, Mr. Vukcevic. I thought, and I was hoping that the case of Jova Divjak would be the last in a series of Serbian blasphemies, but immediately afterwards, the case of Bozidar Vucurevic, the war mayor of Trebinj, which Serbia caught on its territory, behold, miracles, on the Croatian indictment. I truly believe that war crime should not have nationality, but I cannot help but notice that Serbia is incredibly up-to-date and agile when it comes to the arrest and processing of Serbs, even if they were innocent. I know, and I am sure that the Serbian public did not forget the case of Ilija Jurisic, who was first charged with 12 years in prison, that later the Court of Appeal would change the same verdict, that is to say, to put a man free, without any obligation to contact the Serbian court ever again, or to appear before him. I also know that the Serbian public has not forgotten the case of Tihomir Purda, whose criminal prosecution of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, this, too, has dropped because of the alleged lack of evidence. I also know that the Serbian public remembers the case of Ejup Ganic, whom the court in London freed, and that same war crimes prosecutor did not find it appropriate to file a complaint against that decision, with a simple incredible explanation that the retrial would cost the Serbian taxpayers an incredible amount. After all these failures, we as a people have the right only to blush for what the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is doing, because either giving up prosecution, or apologizing for the charges filed, or making it a matter in which Mladen Bajic, a Republic prosecutor of Croatia, is charged with deciding on his own. Isn't that totally amazing? At this time, I call on the reformed Serbian judiciary to examine whether, in this way, our war crimes prosecutor's behaviour, there are elements of the entity's criminal activity, unwittingly working in the service, and I am asking this question whether there is a state in the world, a rule of law that holds to its dignity, which behaves in this way? Where self-indulgence ends and political settlements with crimes committed against Serbs end. Finally, I ask questions, will Mr. Vukcevic resign because of all those decisions that have humiliated us as a people?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55525	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55526	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, I demand a notice, i.e. I have a parliamentary question for Mr Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister. I think what I'm going to ask the public is particularly interesting these days, given that in both the press and the electronics, a single topic has been imposed, in short, diplomatic passports. So I ask Mr. Jeremic if there is a rule, some rules within the Ministry, and in the framework of the Government, how are diplomatic passports shared, who has the right to diplomatic passports and to use and use them? Does Minister Jeremic even know how many current diplomatic passports our citizens have? The direct cause for my question is discrimination of athletes. In the end, since this is a country of discrimination, where citizens are discriminated on a variety of grounds, it is up to our top athletes to be discriminated against. So I'm asking Mr. Vuk Jeremic why does he think Nemanja Vidic didn't deserve a diplomatic passport? Why does he think our celebrated football player Stankovic didn't deserve a diplomatic passport? Why does Mr. Vuk Jeremic think our great, legendary already, swimmer Milorad Cavic didn't deserve a diplomatic passport? This way, in the way Mr. Jeremic assigns diplomatic passports, we might be able to think that he is in conflict of interest because he assigns diplomatic passports to members of the Association of Professional Players where he is president. Should Mr. Cvetkovic actually consider really choosing the foreign minister, because this people and this country need him at this point, because it is obvious that Mr. Vuk Jeremic has turned into sports officials, more specifically tennis players. So by chance someone wouldn't think I was against, or New Serbia, the people who got diplomatic passports, of course, I mean our tennis players, it's the least the state could do for them and it's nothing controversial. It's a dispute why other athletes didn't get diplomatic passports. We are witnessing that all of us MPs have the right to diplomatic passports. I'm one of the few people I've never used this privilege before. I call on Mr. Vuk Jeremic to give my right, that is, to give my right to one of our athletes who has made us all happy in time, and I think she will only make us happy. You know, the most joy and surprise is when it's quite a surprise. Miss Nadia Higgle, our legendary swimmer, has really made us happy when we didn't hope to. So I call on Minister Vuk Jeremic to be a passport which, in 48 hours' time, would betray me, as a national MP, betray Miss Find the Higgle, because it will certainly be and will be the ambassador of this country, as other athletes did. Therefore, I urge Mr Vuk Jeremic, once again, the foreign minister, to plead immediately. This is of great interest to the public. We are witnessing that many sports alliances have responded. This is how you have one resistance taste left. To repeat that Mr. Vuk Jeremic is in some way in conflict of interest. He said at a press conference that he decided that this year we'd be favoring the tennis players. It is clear to everyone that both Novak Djokovic and all our tennis players deserve much more than this nation and this country, but not in this way, to the harm of others. So, I have data that several thousand diplomatic passports have been issued in this country, so what's the problem with 15-20 more for our successful watermen, basketball players, football players, swimmers and all the others who deserve it, thank God we have a lot of them that deserve, these athletes, that they get diplomatic passports too?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55527	The word is from Ambassador Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55528	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am asking Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, also Justice Minister Snezani Malovic and Interior Minister Dacic. Are the exact information that has appeared in public that people suspected of helping to hide Hague indictees in Serbia in the future will be treated as members of organised crime? Is it true that police and BIA have started listening in this sense to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, to the obligation to have a mandatory court order to listen to citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Is this in fact a way for Boris Tadic and his regime to start dealing with political insinuators and the relatives of the people on the UN tribunal's warrants? We all know very well that their families have been subject to torture for several years, that they will be hit first and then certainly by political insolents. How is it possible to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this way, the relevant laws and also the European Convention on Human Rights? To make matters worse, we ask the question is it true that agents of British and US intelligence are being placed at the BIA headquarters and are looking for persons suspected by the UN tribunal, that they have rights here that do not have members of the MUP, members of the BIA? Is it true that in fact the entire state, the whole of Tadic's regime, is in the service of members of the US Intelligence Service and the British Intelligence Service? I remind you that their agents participated in an aggression against the SRJ in 1999, that they killed civilians and that they organised numerous assassinations in the Republic of Serbia and around the world. So how is it even possible that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia co-operate with members of these criminal services? Also, since information appears to do so in order to do something for Serge Brammertz and the tribunal's prosecution of the UN tribunal, I am asking the questions of the government of the Republic of Serbia -- how is it possible to violate the Constitution and the laws of co-operation with the tribunal of The Hague, if they are referring to Mrs Artman, who wrote in the book "Peace and Penalty" that in the tribunal's prosecutor's office, infiltrated members of the US and British intelligence services? Mrs. Florence Artman was chief adviser to Carla del Ponte for the Balkans and also spokeswoman Carla del Ponte, so the chief prosecutor of The Hague tribunal. This means that these allegations come from the UN tribunal's own prosecution. I remind you that our country has an obligation to respect the Charter of the UN, to respect the Constitution, and as you know, as Mirko Cvetkovic and ministers should be known, should any UN official cooperate with the intelligence service be revealed, he automatically loses his job. So how is it possible that they're working with members of the American and British intelligence? What makes the regime is completely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and above all to Article 21, which prohibits discrimination, but also to members from 27 to 32. It is also contrary to the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, in particular Article 5, but also to Article 6 and Article 14. However, such behaviour is contrary to the Law itself on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, since this clearly determines what is being applied to, i.e. To whom this law applies, and to which crimes it is bound. So, there is no mention of the persons suspected of helping those who were put by the Hague tribunal's prosecution on the warrants. On the contrary, individuals involved in organised crime are mentioned in order to gain financial or other similar benefits. So it's impossible to apply this law, the Law on the jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime, to such cases. We ask the question: did Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic of Serbia, take up legislative jurisdiction, did he begin to prescribe how the MUP would work, how would the government of the Republic of Serbia work and order them to function solely in the interest of the US and British intelligence services? What you're doing in Pakistan was done in time, worked by Zia ul Hak, who said that the constitution is an ordinary book that he can tear up at any time. So we invite you to stop persecuting the relatives of the Hague indictees and political opponents.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55529	The word has an MP, Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55530	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia what will they do to resolve the catastrophic consequences of the flood that took place yesterday in Novi Pazar? What I can say and call as an MP to engage all possible resources of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of all other institutions in order to address these inconceivable consequences resulting from the outflow of the Trnavica River. I think now is the time to show solidarity with the citizens of Novi Pazar, and I suggest to the government that it reacts as quickly as possible and mitigates these consequences that have been caused by these spills of the Trnavica River.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55531	The word is from Ambassador Munir Traturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55532	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, my colleague, Mr. Bajram Omeragic, has mentioned the essence of what I have applied for, but this event reminds the whole of our public that sometimes it makes all eyes look back or direction towards a particular place where an accident is sometimes, as it is, in a quiet and elemental accident and endangers people, sometimes what we ourselves do not do in time. I would just like to remind ourselves, because of our citizens, that Pazar is the first on the list of cities in Serbia by the number of unemployed. I'd like to remind the citizens that the city of Novi Pazar is the youngest, i.e. People up to 23 are the first on the list in Novi Pazar. Such potential and the kind of accidents that are happening to us are a signal, a message that as soon as possible measures are being taken for the Sandzak area, that is, for Pazar, Sjenica and Tutin, which are among the most underdeveloped in Serbia, and because Novi Pazar participated, despite its budget, in all events and accidents in Serbia, modestly, but solidarity and small is always useful as a motivation for all of our people. We helped the citizens of the Kings, we participated in both aiding and solidarity with the citizens of Japan in their misfortune, we did everything to meet somewhere, and as citizens from that area and as a city, in all humanitarian actions, to make someone feel that there is this human warmth and that somewhere man doesn't feel alone. I'd just like to point a question at the government, according to the Fund for Protection or Assistance from elemental disasters, according to the resolution ministries, to be more effective in this situation, because over 500 houses have been damaged. It's a good thing there weren't any casualties, it's a good thing solidarity has shown in part, that all the citizens in that area are staying in hotels or in their relatives. Once again, solidarity has proved to be the greatest value of our territory and this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55533	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives report for a word, to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? No, I don't. () Since no one is answering anymore, we continue our work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Đukić Dejanovic, Nikola Krpić, Sinisa Stamenkovic and Laslo Varga. We're continuing our work. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of People's Workers (single) You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs: Zoran Krasić, Sreto Perić, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop Lazić, Mirko Munjic, Petar Jojić, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Buha, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Milan Radovanović, Bajram Šehović, Momo Čolaković, Dragan Marković Palma, Petar Petrovic, Dejan Pisarevic, Dejan Mirović, Vjerica Radeta, Zlata Djerić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markić, Vlatko Ratković, Vlatko Ružić and Boris Alexić. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the proposing representatives on individual amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind you that the time available to the parliamentary groups for discussion in particular is 15 minutes for each president or authorised representative of the parliamentary groups, proportional to the number of MPs of each parliamentary group for a total of five hours for the parliamentary groups and two minutes for each of the applicants. On the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would like to inform you that today we will be doing a search in detail on the remaining points of the agenda, therefore, on the point on which the search in particular has just been opened, on the draft law on tobacco and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Personal Card Act, which means that we will be working today after 1800 hours. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55534	Mrs. Comic, can we hear the fate of the amendment and what the opinion of the representatives of this bill on these amendments is, so if this amendment was adopted, I would not explain it. We didn't get anything, so we don't know what fate is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55535	The notice from the Service is that this morning, in envelopes at 8:30 a.m., it was distributed to all MPs. I'm forwarding you the notice I'm getting from the National Assembly Service. So you received an announcement from the Committee and from the proposings in the envelopes at the Parliament clubs, which was also forwarded by the president of the National Assembly. I ask the Deputy Secretary-General to send an e-mail e-mail message to see if they can't throw away what's true, which is not true, and they had a misunderstanding about whether the material arrived because of the MPs. The MPs say they didn't, the Service says they did. There's got to be a post office somewhere. He's at the clubs, confirm phone records. Vice-President Judita Popovic argues there is no mail in the LDP parliamentary group. I ask you to agree, for all of us who have objections about the mail expedition, that an apology be made to the National Assembly Service, if it is determined that the mail is in the parliamentary groups and that we do not abuse the session of the National Assembly for a subject that is purely abuse. If the wrong and false information is provided by the National Assembly, they will bear the sanctions of the disciplinary procedure, for it must not be lied. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Since I interrupted you when you spoke, it doesn't count, of course you used your time, and MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55536	Mrs. Komic, member of the 27th Rules of Procedure. Well, what does this relationship of yours look like to us? You're sitting next to a man who calls someone in this building and then you're trying to explain to us how this someone he's calling is right, not all of us sitting here. What does that look like? Is this a relationship to Parliament? We have the working hours of this assembly from 10:00 to 6:00, so let us know at 10:30 that we'll be working today while we endure, so there are some other obligations we have, we have our own committees, we're working. What kind of relationship is that to Parliament? If you, as the leader of this House, have no sense of order, who else should have it? There's a colleague of yours sitting next to you who's the vice president of the Assembly, who tells you we didn't get anything. You say there will be some disciplinary punishments, what shall we talk about? Is that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a member of the ruling coalition, saying they won't vote for that law? So we care what the lawmakers think. What kind of behavior is that? We got in here at 10:00, we didn't get any material. Let the basic principles of respect be established here, nothing else, human respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55537	I can no longer agree, but to establish the principles of elementary respect. Therefore, MP Zoran Krasic, taking the floor to explain the amendment, found that he did not share the proposal's report and opinion. I consulted the Deputy Secretary-General, he said that this morning the mail was delivered to the parliamentary groups and we have MPs who claim it is not true. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic quite rightly and emotionally asked for respect. Then it's hardly possible to ask for respect without providing it, it's so simple. Please, I must give an explanation to MP Cedomir Jovanovic. I heard you, you'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure, but with each other's respect. "I am delivering to the People's MP in the NSRS" and has an opinion on amendments to the draft law, and a group of 108 MPs on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the Proposer of the Colundge of Hope, the MP delivered to the People's Parliament, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Justice and Management. The way to check the phone, because mistakes are always possible, is a phone question. People's MPs, we can seek mutual respect and we can abuse the session of the National Assembly, we can do anything, but the post office, so informed, by the service of the National Assembly, has been delivered. I ask each MP, if it is found not to be, to inform the Deputy Secretary-General of this matter, because, of course, in accordance with Article 27, I will seek the initiation of a disciplinary procedure and the punishment of one who lies to the MPs. National MP Dragan Todorovic says whoever is lying and stealing. Who knows, that's the kind of saying I'm quoting. So far I'm only talking about lying, so someone's lying, and if someone's going to steal someone's work-related punishment, we'll see. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55538	You've injured the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, and you've cross-referencing it in several ways. First, I'm telling you a thousand times, where you come up with the idea that you're going to break with the MPs, they can't get out of the bench, that's true, and you can warn them about it, but you don't have to translate what anyone says from the bench to all the voices, on the microphone, to hear the media representatives. It's not your responsibility, it doesn't say anything in article 27. The second thing, if everything you say is true, as you just said, is the appropriate and leading session in the way you see it, supposedly respecting Article 27, so when you told Mr Jovanovic in response a little while, plowing with other MPs, you said, "Here, MPs claim they didn't get an opinion." Mrs. Comic, you're a folk MP. I only have one question for you – did you get an opinion? We were obliged here to sit with you at this session, we were obliged to come, to participate in the work, as the Rules of Procedure said. If you personally didn't get material with that opinion in your hands the moment you entered the O.R. or before entering the O.R., then how do you expect someone else to get it, and you didn't get it? Or are you going to tell me that you did? Do you have that in your material and did you read it well before you sat in your seat? Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55539	There's no damage to article 27. In an attempt to establish order during the session, I am obliged to provide at the same time explanations and remind MPs, such as you and MP Dragan Todorovic, that they do not have the right to violate the Rules of Procedure while the chairman gives an explanation of the objection highlighted that article 27 has been violated. There's no controversy, it's taking care of order at the National Assembly session. The Order implies that the Rules of Procedure should not be broken by throwing away, that one of the messengers or the messengers of the people should speak, and that the rest of them should listen to what I do. So the material is divided and I hope you open envelopes, which are not in the MP groups, so you'll read what's in the envelope. I open my mail in the morning, so I see what it says. I ask MP Milos Aligrudic not to throw it away. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants a statement on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, by the chairman and the National Assembly in voting day. Does National MP Donka Banovic want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55540	Please, we're masters here to create a problem, and there's no problem, or you. Like this, I was at the nine o'clock MP's club. He was delivered to a Parliament club that material package for all MPs. I opened my envelope. In this envelope, exactly, the examination of the acts contained in the envelope states that this is the opinion of the motion to amend and supplement the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. There's no material in that envelope. As far as the DSS and our MPs are concerned, there's no material in that envelope, and that's all. Now if all of us opposition MPs, who are very interested in seeing how you've turned down certain amendments, how you explained it, and if we all say it, then I don't see why you don't trust us. So we need opinions to see how you and why individual amendments and why you refused to do so on the proposal of this law. At nine o'clock, I opened that envelope. There's no opinion in it. If I were the promoter, I'd try against the opposition to hide the explanation of why I turned down some amendments. If I were you and I were doing it, I'd probably try to hide it. We can't work until we see how and why you've turned down some amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55541	People's MPs, I listened very carefully, but I didn't hear you say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. That the material in the envelope, if in one of the envelopes, if it's you, it's not all the material delivered, I have no doubt, it's possible, but we'll find out who's responsible again. There's no dispute. National MP Dragan Todorovic throws – let's see if you can determine? Of course we'll find out. The MP continues to throw away and is now breaking the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So this isn't controversy. I'm trying to keep order at the National Assembly session. I collect information and phone and check how true it is of the claims that MPs have the right, which is that the Rules of Procedure has been violated. I also remind the MPs that, even if what happened had not happened, it is that the motionary's opinion was divided this morning at half-nine with the documentation, so that it would not be a reason to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk again about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55542	Mrs. Comic, Article 107. We have once again reviewed all the materials very carefully and I will tell you what the congregation service has done, confident that she did not do it by accident, but knowingly. We got an answer from the promoter, but not the material that was passed to us in envelope 74, where it belonged, but this one was responsible for the material in envelope 73, where it doesn't belong at all. All the MPs who took the material for this session could not find the proposal because it was in material that did not belong to what we are going to talk about today. It is a fact and everyone, and MPs from the DSS and each of our MPs who took the material for this item of the agenda did not find the proposal's opinion because it was in another envelope. That's the facts. Since the way that we have come to the opinion of the promoter and this, I suggest that other fellow Members look at the material, which is not otherwise intended for this item of the agenda, that opinion, take it, and then we can continue the work. But none of us care about accusing anyone unfounded or spending time here the way you insinuated it. This is a failure of congregation service, obvious, and I don't mean random.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55543	There is no disrespect for the reputation of the National Assembly, as Article 107 applies. I order the Deputy Secretary-General that with the stenograms on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, carried out by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, MP Milos Aligrudic and MP Donka Banovic, that the stenogram, along with my request to determine how the envelopes were 73 and 74, according to MP Cedomir Jovanovic, was sent and who worked the dispatch to the parliamentary groups. We will remove any suspicion that there is any intention to leave anyone without the necessary material, as we will make sure that no session of the National Assembly is misused for what is neither the subject nor the respect of one another nor the consideration of the reputation of the National Assembly. I ask that stenograms be delivered to the Secretary-General of the Assembly with statements of MPs, to determine whether there was an intention to lead MPs into error in the matter of whether or not there was material. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55544	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Comic, I feel really uncomfortable. I'm listening to the debate. My colleagues are probably right, and our MP club has been doing similarly, but in this case, my colleague Ljiljana Miladinović brought an envelope at 10.00 a.m. where there is an opinion, it is only on one page, and the promoter, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the opinion of the Legislative Committee. These are three lists of documents with an accompanying act and an envelope, as well as an envelope with three new legal proposals to be considered. I can't keep my mouth shut and say that no one has won, if the Prosperity Group Advanced Serbia's SNS has received material. I don't care what conclusions anyone will draw from that, but the material has arrived at our Parliament club on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55545	Unfortunately, you did not mention the breach of the Rules of Procedure that was done. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: Article 27) So you listed the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 27, so the breach of Rules of Procedure was not done. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, so MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55546	Article 107. When we talk about insulting the dignity of the National Assembly, and we refer to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, there are only two options, or we believe that one other than those present has violated the dignity of the National Assembly and of the People's MPs, to which you were bound...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55547	People's MP, we can't think of that, because in a member who explains how the word is given, it clearly says who can hurt the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (Milos Aligrudic: Explaining what is needed. Let me explain. I cannot allow you to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly without acting on order at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You will be given the word, first MP Cedomir Jovanovic. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: No, you are not. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55548	Mrs. Komic, Article 27. We do not have and ask your colleague, Deputy Secretary, why have we not been given the reasons for the amendments that the Proposer did not accept? It's the key to us. We have received only a proposal on his position on the three amendments he accepts. It is very important for us, Mrs. Comic, and you too are a great fighter for women's rights, gender equality, etc., what the ruling coalition thinks about the amendment in which it is required that if a woman ceases to act as a Member, a woman on the list, and not the first on the list, that mandate takes over. We're interested in those arguments. We don't have an explanation, and that's crucial, we don't have an explanation for those amendments that the promoter didn't accept. We don't mean to blackmail anyone, but start respecting our patience. Without the support of the LDP, this law will not go away, and I demand that all materials be delivered to us, not that the characters that come in and out of this room, as if from the conveyor belt, make us what we are definitely not, the pins in this room. There is no explanation for the amendments that the applicant has not accepted. We are very interested in an explanation for that amendment, which requires that the quota be respected within the framework of parliament, not just on the electoral list. For that amendment, we want to vote and we are interested in the position of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55549	I completely understand, MP, but this has nothing to do with Article 27's injury, nor can it be talked about Article 27's injury, but it can be talked about the abuse of the right to receive words of injury to the Rules of Procedure, because the content of the arguments you've shared with all of us serves discussion in detail and does not serve to pay attention to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you to listen carefully to yourself and to understand that every public word produces consequences, and that the public words we share in the National Assembly are such that the consequences are always much more serious than public words, which as people who are engaged in public affairs are spoken elsewhere. Unfortunately, MP Cedomir Jovanovic is out of the O.R. and will not hear another part of my argument. Article 27 pointed out that he was injured because no material had arrived at all, and then that the material had arrived in two envelopes, and then the material that the MP felt should be in one of the two envelopes in which the material had arrived. All with a plea for mutual respect and my attempt to take care of order at the National Assembly session. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55550	Two members were injured, 27, and 107. You have injured Article 27 when it comes to how you conduct the session, which I will explain in two minutes, and Article 107 because you insult me as a MP by your relationship with me in the way you communicate with me. This is a direct violation of the 107th on your part, which is characterized by taking on more rights than it belongs to you by the Rules of Procedure, by interrupting a speaker who did not finish a sentence to get the point and explanation of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure in order for you to conclude that the MP abuses his right. In order to know whether an MP is abused of his right, you must listen to the MPs. You insult me when you do it. You're doing it in front of a million-dollar auditorium. You insult a Messenger of the people who has been chosen just as much as you. You do it in such a way that it is calculated to violate the dignity of this House, my own and those citizens who have chosen me. That's what you're doing on purpose and you're doing it out of evil intent, because I can't believe you're doing it out of stupidity. I don't believe that. I don't think you're stupid. If you don't do it out of evil intent, then do it, God forbid, from this other one, and it would startle me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55551	I'm afraid, People's Parliament, that you will remain appalled, since you have not given an explanation under the right to the word. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: you did not let me give it.) You keep throwing yourself out of the bench and then you'll be mad at me for saying you're throwing it out of the bench. In the framework of the business provisions, I make sure that there is order at the National Assembly session. I listen carefully to all the MPs of the people, and only sometimes I ask the MPs to listen to themselves. Sometimes many of us don't resist the temptation not to listen to our ears what our mouths say, but it's human and it happens. So there's no injury to article 27. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: I want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on article 107.) You want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: Yes. ) The National Assembly will declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, in the day of the vote. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS doesn't know if it's one of the recommendations of the Venice Commission and that a session of the National Assembly is being made a joke, because this is clearly a joke. Mrs. Comic, I will try to give a full explanation of the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Article 164 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads, "The legislator... " [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55553	National MP, Article 164 cannot be the subject of damage to the Rules of Procedure during the session of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55554	Yes, ma'am. Article 164 speaks... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55555	He can't be hurt during session Article 164, that's what you and I know, you're probably better than me. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55556	I'm referring to Article 104 right of replica, given that some of these remarks referred to me as an authorised representative... (President: You did not mention in an offensive way, but if you have help to give an explanation, please. ) It is necessary to give an additional explanation because I think there may be a mistake here. So, we can also consider amendments without the proposalor's opinion and that's according to the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, whether all parliamentary groups have received the proposal's opinion, it is now something to determine. I can say we've been given the opinion of the promoter. At the same time, what is important is that the debate on amendments makes sense if the proposing representative, listening to the one who explains the amendments, considers the possibility that, despite those amendments he has already accepted, accepts another amendment which is an argument that confirms that, by accepting the amendment, the legislative proposal is corrected. So, as a representative of the legislator of this law, on behalf of the MPs, I am present in the O.R. and I think that what needs to come is a debate on amendments, otherwise the debate on amendments would be completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55557	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because we do not see which amendments were rejected from this act that arrived on 23 May 2011. Secondly, we do not see from this act whether all 108 MPs are behind the opinions signed by Mrs Nada Kolundji. The introduction of this act states that it shall be submitted on behalf of a group of 108 MPs under Article 164(1). I ask the MPs of the PUPS and the SPS-JS coalition are they behind the opinions signed by Mrs Nada Kolundji? If they stand, I ask them why the internal coalition debates are taking place and they agree to accept certain amendments of the MPs' group, that is, PUPS MPs? Until we get answers to those questions here, there's no elemental civilized debate. It is impossible that the Venice Commission told Mrs Nadi Kolundji one thing, and to Mr Moma Colakovic something else. So is there a unique position of the ruling coalition? If there is, how can there be dissonant tones? If it does not exist, it means that someone here has deceived the MPs, that the famous Venice Commission did not actually say what was being said to the MPs that it was said. So, from this act, we can't see the answers to these questions. If you don't give us those answers, I don't think there are any basic conditions here to conduct an argument. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: You cracked like an iceberg. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55559	National MP, no injured member 27. Your explanation does not show what would mirror Article 27's injury, with your explanation being extremely logical and easy to remember, and I understood that the MP groups had received material, so I will ask all the MPs who pointed out as a breach of the Rules of Procedure that they did not receive material, if they wanted it publicly or if they wanted it in the way they thought it was respect, to apologize to the services of the National Assembly. That would be the only logical thing. The second part of the content of your reasoning does not constitute either the obligation under the Rules of Procedure, nor does it constitute a breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor does any member of the Rules of Procedure oblige anyone, minority or majority, to give you his political views, the results of dialogue and debate. I understand the insufferability of a session that the MP claims cannot be handled properly and must look like a farce. I think we all know here that not all 250 MPs have so far proved to be able to participate in the debate, in the skills and knowledge of dialogue, but slightly less in the skills and knowledge of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Yes. ) In the day of voting, the National Assembly will declare the claim by MP Aleksandar Martinovic that a 27-member was injured by the chairman. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55560	Ladies and gentlemen, for almost an hour in the continuity of Mrs. Comic has violated Article 107 and is insulting the dignity of the National Assembly and all the MPs, and those who have reported to speak, as well as those who have not responded. Proposer representative, Mrs. Kolundjia, just now said that we got... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55561	People's MPs, if you want to talk about me breaking Article 107, or demeaning the reputation of the National Assembly, then I ask you to stick to it, not to mention other MPs and not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55562	Okay. So, yes, Mrs. Komic, you've been violating the Rules of Procedure for almost an hour now, and you're insulting the dignity of the National Assembly because you don't want to notice what everyone's hearing, and you should hear, too, that, in accordance with Article 164 of the amendment, we have received an opinion that you have accepted. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55563	Article 164 can't be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure at the session, so please stop breaking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, let me inform you that part of today's session, starting from 11 hours and 20 minutes, from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly will be followed by a group of pensioners, representatives of the Meat Organisation of the Resavica Alliance of Serbia, and that: Pave Pejić, Radivoje Aksentjevic, Stojanka Milanović, Bogoje Kuzmanovic, Dragica Lalić, Ljilja Živković, Mira Stojanović, Zorka Lazić, Misa Vuletić, Ratko Milanović, Milutin Zorić, Johan Vivoje Simonović, Ljubisa Simonović, Ljubisa Nikolic, Stojana Zorić, Anka Vivot, Mirjana Simić, Zorka Nikolic, Miodrag Simić and Zoran Milosavljevic. Welcome to the National Assembly, welcome to your house. I call for a round of applause and hope they find it interesting to follow the course of the session today. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and he gets his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55564	You have violated, Mrs. Komic, Article 27. You just shut me out of the electronic system without any reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55565	People's MPs, you will again be excluded from the electronic system, because you are abusing the Rules of Procedure. I'm just warning you that it's my duty to give you the same article, so thank you. (Miss Radeta, from the scene: "Let me finish." ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. We will wait for MP Zoran Krasic, who is not currently in the hall, but his right to declare the amendment unimpeached. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55566	Can I talk? Okay. Mrs. Komic, we have submitted this first amendment to Article 1. The bill because we saw the words "The Supreme Court of Serbia" being thrown out of article 7 and inserting the words "The Administrative Court". It's a provision that regulates the protection of electoral rights. So, what are these organs that provide protection of electoral rights? So the organs that all those who think something is not regular in the electoral procedure are able to turn around and seek protection. The first was RIK, the second was the Supreme Court of Serbia and the third were competent courts. The third of these competent courts were primarily municipal courts due to electoral lists, copies, enrollment in the voter list. Last year, however, the Law on the Election List was passed, so a considerable number of provisions in the Law on the selection of MPs remained unnecessary, and these members are also amended in some subsequent provisions. With this amendment, we wanted to say that instead of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which no longer exists, there is a Supreme Cassation Court, and we propose that it be practically the highest instance in the electoral process, not the Administrative Court, before the whole process of safeguarding the right in an election procedure resembles only moments of administrative proceedings. It is, in fact, matter belonging to constitutional law, and it can be said by constitutional procedure, is that in a formal-legal sense relying on some rules that apply in the administrative procedure. We think that if, in the current law, the highest court in the Republic of Serbia was designated as a state body providing protection of electoral law, that this principle should be preserved and that the pandan of the Supreme Court is the Supreme Cassation Court. I don't know what the proposer's position is about this right now. I don't think there's any reason for this amendment not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55567	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55568	This amendment is unacceptable because, under the Court's Law, the Administrative Court is designated as competent to resolve these disputes. This provision of the amendment and addition of the law is in line with the Law on the Regulation of Courts and with the real jurisdiction of the courts laid down by that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55569	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the distinguished Mrs. Hope Kolundzija is wrong. The Court's Law does not state that the Administrative Court settles electoral disputes, but that it settles administrative disputes. In Article 97 of the basic law, the Supreme Court of Serbia stood, and now they propose the Administrative Court to decide on the application of the provisions of the laws governing the procedure in administrative disputes. So, the Administrative Court, that's why it's called, settles administrative disputes. The ruling coalition believes that the resolution of electoral disputes should be analoguely applied to the rules applicable to the settlement of the administrative dispute. What's the problem with this attitude? Then why do you not apply the rules of the administrative dispute until the end, but you say: We shall apply the rules of the administrative dispute, and you shall not apply them in the law itself? In Article 97 of the basic law, you say this, it will remain to stand – against any solution of the RIK, made by appeal, a complaint can be made to the Administrative Court. I'm sorry, the administrative dispute doesn't know the category of objection. In the Law of Administrative Disputes, you have no procedural institute of objection. In point 3 you say – the rules of the administrative dispute are applied analoguely. How come the Law of Administrative Disputes doesn't know the Institute of Objection? Secondly, the Law on Administrative Disputes says the procedure before the Administrative Court is initiated by filing an action. You're replacing the suit here with a complaint and insisting on applying the rules of the administrative dispute. The rules of the administrative dispute shall not apply. Maybe it could be applied, but you don't use these solutions. What are you doing? You say in Article 97 paragraph 3 of the basic law – rules of the administrative dispute apply. You don't apply the rules of the administrative dispute. You're making up some new rules with this law. This is a problem, which in the Republic of Serbia there is no normised and codified procedure for the protection of electoral law. You didn't do it with this law. You've only partially prescribed an election law protection mechanism, but you weren't consistent here. If you had been consistent, you would have consistently applied all the provisions of the Law on Administrative Disputes. This is how you're on your own. You say – the rules of the administrative dispute are applied accordingly and then you invent some institutes that the 2009 Administrative Dispute Act, adopted by the National Assembly, does not know at all. Secondly, you Mrs. Kolundji, consciously or unconsciously, but you forge what is written in the Court Order Act. It does not say that the Administrative Court settles electoral disputes, but that it settles administrative disputes. This dispute, that is, this procedure that you are now prescribing by the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, I do not know what it is? Neither is the full process of protecting the electoral right, nor is it a administrative dispute. This is some hybrid procedure, which I really don't know how to baptize. So that's the problem with what Mrs. Hope Kolundji said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55571	Three minutes and 20 seconds of time as deputy representative of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger of Nada Kolundzija, and the Messenger of the people Zoran Krasic. Then, MP Zoran Krasic. You were reported to the electronic system that you wanted a word. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55572	You know, I can understand that most people can do anything, but some things just aren't allowed. Election law is part of something called constitutional law matter. The beginning and the end, and there's nothing 126 can change. It can't change that. That's the first thing. Another thing – is judicial protection provided in electoral disputes? If the election shows a need, some conflict appears and needs to be resolved, the last instance in solving is something called a court. The standard to be applied, or it is the Constitutional Court in countries where constitutional courts exist, or the highest regular court. You've applied something that doesn't exist anywhere on the globe of the Earth. We, according to both the previous Constitution and the previous laws on the selection of MPs, had respect for that principle, but I am sorry, please, I have wondered both science and theory when the law was passed. And now 126. We're proposing a change. Ratkovic and Konstantinovic advised Hope. We have administrative disputes, come on, the Court's Law says they run administrative disputes. What does this dispute have to do with the administrative dispute? What does the election dispute have to do with the administrative dispute? Explain to me. It just shows here that the highest court is the last instance, probably the second-degree organ that solves everything. In order for the second-degree authority to solve something, he must have a complaint or appeal, and you're telling us the administrative court. In order for the administrative court to solve something, he must have a lawsuit. You know, he's not here, he's not here. Where's your Veselinović? He's a doctor, too. Ask the people who do this job. You just think -- we have 126, so we can do anything. By that logic of things, you could've given this to a court of law. You can do anything, but people have some minimum, there are some principles, there are some principles that are respected. You have the only principle "app" – if it passes, it passes. I've got 126 and hold the water until the masters leave. And now I need something serious to talk to you about something that's really embarrassing and embarrassing. Thanks for not getting the warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55573	There was no reason, MP. Three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Sreto Peric has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, we in the SRS were expecting the materialisation of provision 102. paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the MP is free to make his mandate available to the political party. However, two epochal things in this law on amendments and additions to the Law are, from your point of view and perspective, blank resignations and a locked list. Blanko's resignations weren't valid for the SRS, and they were valid for everyone else. We have repeatedly pointed out here that MP Ferzo Celovic, when he came to the register to see if it was time to receive the salary, told him he was no longer a MP. Then he was very unsatisfactory, and he didn't even know that he was no longer a messenger of the people that day. Now there will be problems with those locked lists. Here, we've been talking for over an hour about whether assumptions were made for the continuation of the National Assembly session, and then we're not surprised if it didn't come out to meet the small coalition partners, how it's been figurein' in that termology lately. Then it is no wonder why not the MPs of the SRS are not going to meet, but why the citizens of Serbia. In the light of the law, at the very end of it, it is said -- the EU has no uniform legislation regarding the selection of MPs, but there are some suggestions and some suggestions as well as how we in Serbia should deal with this issue. We've seen that there's nothing. You have failed to provide a sufficient number of MPs to support this law. But that doesn't matter at all, it's not an SRS problem. Dear colleagues, don't ask yourself, don't think that this attack on the National Assembly, not on the MP as an individual, but on the National Assembly, isn't in the last month, since it started talking or working a little more intensely on amendments and additions to the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliaments. This high-representation hack lasts five, six, seven years. Just remember those "sandless cattle" signs and stuff. It all went with consent and then the congregation’s majority. She was a little different from today, but she was in agreement. You had the desire to strengthen perhaps one function, to strengthen the person of the President of the Republic, so he's all-powerful, he can do anything. He will now reconcile Cedomir Jovanovic and Djuru Peric, to agree to vote on it. He can do anything. Oh, he won't. Whoever told Cedomir Jovanovic to vote for this law, he will call on him now and say – vote for this, it must pass. My Djuru Peric won't be asked, it doesn't matter what he thinks about it. Although it seems to me that this amendment, which the pensioner's party has, has some logic, if it enters into the pre-election coalition, that it makes sense to establish some principles, to agree on some rules that will apply, that what we had during this term does not happen to us is a violation of some coalition agreements. But it doesn't touch us. We basically go out on our own, we measure our strength, we say what the citizens said about SRS policy, and when the elections are over, then we try to do something else. What will you do if an MP dares, you are now called the List for European Serbia, I do not know how it will be in the next elections and after the establishment of that National Assembly, MP ZES says – Boris Tadic is a traitor? What are you gonna do? Will you wait three days for him to confirm his statement that he will no longer be a Messenger of the people, or will you say, "You can no longer be a Messenger of the people?" You'll see, there'll be some problems with you. Here someone was saying, of course, when there was a debate on the principle of this law -- we're not just here because of these some parliamentary seats, so we have executive power, we're going to fight for this executive power, we're going to motivate citizens of Serbia. How? You promote as if Serbian citizens are now deciding. Serbian citizens will now only go to the polls. They will not decide at all, in their name they will decide political parties. You could have done that. It doesn't even have to be 250 more candidates on the lists, that the presidents of political parties, they only engage, they only run and as long as they get the mandate, they will have the right so much to propose MPs and to make it the composition of parliament. Obviously and never again worked against the citizens of Serbia, but you seem to have had to accept this bill under pressure, not what it is your wish. And you know for a fact that this is not good, that this is extremely wrong. When we proposed in Article 2. The bill of amendments and additions to the Law of some change that is not essential to character, which do not touch your blank resignations, as you experience them and see, which does not disturb your locked lists, but we just wanted to regulate this provision as the Constitution has said. What does the Constitution say? I must first read the proposal of Article 2 relating to Article 10. The bill, in your view: "Right to choose an MP and to be elected for MPs (meaning both active and passive voting rights) has a full-time business citizen of the Republic of Serbia with residence in the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the voter)." The full-time able, and here in the Constitution, in Article 37, has been fully defined and precise about when a person in Serbia is considered full-year and when business is capable, if there are no other exceptions to the law again. From state to state, this limit can be different. We say, "Every face has a legal capacity." A person by age acquires the ability to decide on his rights and obligations on his own. Adolescence comes with 18 years of age. I've been quoting Article 37. The Constitution. We have proposed in our amendment that Article 2 be changed and read: "The right to elect MPs and to be elected as MP has a citizen resident in the Republic of Serbia, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia -- means, it is necessary to meet both conditions cumulatively – who has turned 18 and is able to do business." So we have been very precise, we have also consulted the Constitution in submitting this amendment and we propose that this amendment be adopted and accepted. Dear fellow Members of the congregation, you are taking the greatest responsibility you have ever had. Elections are a route, policy is determined for the next period, in normal conditions it is for four years. This way, by voting for this law, you will support a radical electoral system and a system that certainly will not be in the interest of Serbian citizens, but will be the most against them. The largest number of our citizens called me and other colleagues in the SRS parliamentary group this morning and asked what it was about. We should discuss the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, and we are very concerned about whether professional services have forwarded it or not. If we wanted to be more efficient, we could have resolved that dilemma in five minutes, not that we represent everything that doesn't lead to anything in front of the public. But, let it be, it's good to see it too. The SRS party won't participate in this kind of a laadry, and you're choosing a completely wrong path.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55575	Six minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, Natasa Jovanovic's MP submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55576	Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Kolundžija, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, this basic member of Law 22, Mrs. Kolundžija, you have also misdesigned, so to speak, because you have not managed, as explained by fellow Martinović and Krasic, a law that determines the jurisdiction of the courts you have adopted in this same assembly and, at the very least, you are deluding one of the voters who should exercise their electoral right, and you know very well that citizens cannot become the bearers of sovereignty in the country if they do not have the opportunity to choose and be elected. In this case, we are talking about citizens of Serbia who have failed to exercise their electoral right, or who have found that they are not in the voter's list, so they must exercise it through the court. And instead of, Mrs. Kolundzija, that according to the change in the Law on Courts that you have done, and I must remind the citizens of Serbia and all of you that you have abolished over 100 basic courts of the former municipalities in Serbia, to put nice and precise into the law that a citizen who is not included in the electoral list can, within 48 hours, address not the competent but the basic court, mean the basic territory in which he is exercising his electoral right. You've made one mess, one disturbance, and who's going to understand this now, and then how the municipal electoral commissions, RIK and all the organs to conduct the electoral process are going to understand what you're going to say to these. Because, Mrs. Kolundzija, perhaps the municipal electoral commission in Crno Trava or Pirot, or in Sudotica, Bačka Palanca, in Ruma, in Arangelovac, that's where they don't exist, in fact there is, in this one time, that, in Pirot, in Arangelovac, the basic court was abolished, that they should interpret for a voter who within 48 hours is trying to exercise his electoral right, to address the Supreme Casation Court, the Court of Appeal or already who knows which, because it is not precisely stated which court. The other is the problem of voters who are not listed in the voter list, and this government has been doing so from 5 October to today. We are witnesses to this in the environments in which we live, and of course the people of RIK, where citizens unfortunately post-festum appear RIK and say, we have failed even through the court to exercise our electoral right. Of course, this is not the case in all the cities in Serbia, or in all the courts, but only now you do not know what court is, because this court of jurisdiction means absolutely nothing. And that's why Mrs. Kolundzija, to us Serbian radicals as well as other colleagues, has not given a written reply, why she does not accept the amendments because simply one too many sentences cannot write or respond without having a foothold in the existing law. Why is that happening? Why are young people who are just getting their adulthood in most cases not listed in the voter list? Why aren't these people moving from one place to another, and they're really up-to-date to report their place of residence to the local department of the MUP? Why are these not our exiled Serbs from the occupied Republika Srpska, why they are not registered on an up-to-date basis, so there are tens of thousands waiting to be entered. Otherwise, I take advantage of the opportunity, since they are the most affected and constantly address the SRS authorities to give them the possibility of electoral rights, and to choose and be elected, to congratulate Serbian Krajisniks for the celebration today, which will be celebrated in the village of Busia, where several tens of thousands of Krajijski Serbs live. As for people who are not in the polling list and those who are not thus recorded in, as you say, the central polling list, the unique, which does not exist in Serbia, remember that once, there is only a copy of each municipality that is collected in one place. So you remember that affair when that CD went missing because it was found that the list wasn't updated in 2003, and I'm going to talk about it when there was an amendment to the 10th amendment of this law, but you proved here by stealing the mandate from Serbian radicals that you also violated Article 52. The constitution, therefore, is the electoral right of citizens who voted for the SRS list, Dr Vojislav Seselj. You have violated all democratic postulates by the way you act and treat the opposition parties here and what then to expect one average voter, and only one who has yet to exercise his electoral right, and I don't know, Mrs. Kolundzija, I see that you are in trouble, and you were able to conduct those consultations in a pause, bring one by one of the heads of parliament groups, and you are obliged to answer this question, why did you not accept this amendment that I have filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55577	Three minutes and 50 seconds used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, a folk letter from Gordana pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be logical to expect this kind of law to be passed on the basis of the previously reached consensus of all parliamentary groups participating in the elections and on this basis to receive a number of mandates in the Serbian Parliament. But this democratic principle is not respected by other laws either, so it is not expected to be applied and when it comes to this law, which we consider really very important because it represents a copy of the voter's will, and the voter's will is unimpeached. We are here thanks to them and we are sent from their side to advocate the achievement of their interests. Here we are trying through amendments to improve something in this law, although in principle we have said that we do not in principle agree with the interference of anyone in the policy of the political party that has come up with a certain electoral list, how, in any way and to whom it will assign a mandate. Because, you will allow, if you say, among the first 90 candidates of the SRS, we find Todorovic, Martinović, Stevanović, Pop Lazic and so on, and before that, we have some local elections, so we are all the presidents of the municipalities, what do I know, Surdulice, Čukarica, Vračar, Ruma, how will you grant us the mandate? Do you have the right to request a statement of acceptance of the mandate or are we automatically out of the possibility of accepting that mandate? Whatever you do, you'll make a mistake, but you didn't even think about it. Allegedly Article 3. This law should comply with the Court's Law on the jurisdiction of the court, but you sent us a message like this that you would change the Law on Court Orders, because you do not know which court will be in charge of these disputes, as you have admitted to us that you have no intention of creating conditions to finally have a single electoral list, as soon as you use the term "election list copy". This whole farce about making amendments and the alleged decision of the majority or the promoter whether some amendment will be accepted or not is not possible because we are aware that someone else is discussing our amendments. Here, we are reading in the press that the Venice Commission is preparing to make a statement on the issues of two Crucial Amendments, which some parliamentary groups have submitted, and those parliamentary groups that have even said they will support the law, although they essentially disagree with some of the members of the bill. So, Serbia is, for the thousandth time, I'm going to say, under the protectorate, about us and the arrangement of any area of social life, and even what kind of elections we're going to have and how people are going to decide in this country, and as long as all of us and Serbian citizens accept that fact, it's going to be like this for us, and what our people say is "a car will go downhill". When the people come to, and we hope they will, and we do everything in our power to get to it as soon as possible, that we should be on our own and arrange our own house the way we think we should, and not the way Western forces want it, it will be, of course, much better. Our entire political action is going in that direction, to try to eliminate all the indoctrination that you are dealing with or trying to deal with through the media that is available to you and that people, ie. You're misleading the citizens. The struggle for truth, for national interests, for democracy, will be what it is, and always will be, the goal of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55579	Three minutes used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Mirko Munjic, who has the word, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55580	When the voter list is concluded, the citizens and applicants of the electoral list, therefore, have one more option to change something in that copy in the voter's list, and no one is slowing it down and it means that citizens have this additional opportunity to request in another, out-of-parnity procedure, to make a decision on changes in the voter's list, whether that change refers to the entry in the voter list, to delete from the voter's list or to some other, therefore, data, changes, changes and additions to certain data in the voter's list. I say, it is good that citizens have this opportunity, and the current Law on the Selection of Members of the People has established the jurisdiction of the municipal court to do so in an out-of-party procedure. The former municipal courts, according to your famous judicial reform, of which we have indeed heard a variety of mostly negative statements both from your friends from the EU and from the local public, from the professional public, thus far, the possibility of such a decision has been brought by municipal courts in an out-of-pared procedure. For this reason, an amendment has been tabled requiring that the decision not be taken by the competent authority, but by the basic court, to be carried out by the Republic Election Commission within 48 hours of the day before the elections were held. The question arises, what did you manage when you predicted that in this case you could do so by a court of law? Whether it's about changing the jurisdiction of the courts, and this area will, in any case, be in the jurisdiction of someone else, perhaps the High Court, or in fact you're creating only one confusion here with the citizens and the voters, or maybe it's something else. What particularly falls into your eyes and what we really need to look at during these changes and the addition of the Law on the selection of MPs, is the fact that you accept certain solutions that absolutely no one has imposed on you or that seems to have not been imposed on you or at least you do not want to admit that someone has imposed it on you. So, you're defending yourself with silence. In a statement on the compliance of the law with EU rules, you say literally, there is no relevant EU regulation with which the law should be harmonised. Is it possible that your moves concerning the regulation of the political system in Serbia have begun to handle some marginal groups or some marginal figures from the Venice Commission or the OSCE Office? Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, it is indeed time for you to stop crawling this country where it seems absolutely no place for it at this time and where most citizens of Serbia do not want it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55581	Two minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55582	When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, by proposing that Article 2 be added, after that, Article 3: of the electoral action cannot be taken prior to the publication of the decision in the "Official Messenger" of the RS. In practice, we have had bitter experiences with various manipulations, because the current government in the past has always seen that it has faster fingers than anyone else who participates in the elections. In addition to having quick fingers, there have been many cases in the past in both the country and the municipal committees of parties that are in power to supply electoral material before being delivered to opposition parties, therefore, to other parties participating in the electoral process, while not taking into account that all electoral actions should be published in the votes of the state, therefore, in the Glasnik or the official list, so that voters and citizens can be informed, as well as to be equal to political parties. There are also a lot of abuses in the media, abuses and parties in power, which delivers packages and help to citizens both before and during the election process. And that is why the SRS is proposing that election action cannot be taken prior to publication in the Official Messenger. Here's a concrete example of what it looked like in the past. All the presidents of the municipal courts were invited to a meeting and were ordered to be ready, at a certain time, to verify the signatures and forms in the parties in power, in their seats, and that the courts were left without the credentials of certain documents in the courts. As far as the voter lists are concerned, you see, it was necessary to read a little bit through history and a parallel right of other states, and now I would remind you of the Law on the Selection of Members of the People from 1922. Be careful what he says, when it comes to the voter lists, in Article 2 of the municipal courts' offices have, each year, official duty from 1 January to 31 December of the year to carry out the corrections of those lists, introducing in them all persons who have an electoral right, and not until then. You see what it says about the election of MPs to the 3rd of the 1922 law, which refers to the electoral actions. During the course of 15 days before the election, until the third day after the election, no authority may invite voters of certain municipalities or of any gatherings, such as joint work or cults or military evaluations and exercises, except in the event of excessive danger. Thus, neither individuals can call on voters except in cases of urgent need, or in cases of prosecution and misdemeanour of any kind, as well as of exits, violations, theft and fraud. When you look at our electoral system and look at our electoral legislation, it's very different from the democratic states we call upon, it's very different. You can see what kind of campaign and the type of machinery everything involves in the electoral process when the time comes to conduct the elections. You see, in Serbia, you have the opportunity to see to it that now, citizens and colleagues, the machinery is ready. The machine is now ready and ready with every means possible. What prevents the privatisation of local media? Why? Why aren't the local media sold on the stock market? No, they need authorities, they need parties and parties to be able to run the campaign on local media without allowing other participants in the election process to engage and participate equally. You will see here in the local papers now, on local media, a beer bottle to open you will see the mayor, the president of the municipality, the deputy member of a council or director of a public utility company. It's your election process. It is your democracy and equality of participants in the electoral process. Therefore, the SRS points out and draws attention that these are not good solutions, because they leave serious consequences and not all citizens are equal in participating in the elections, especially political parties participating with their lists in the election process. Most of the time, you will see, in the local papers in particular, half the page of one on the margin, there 10-15 pages, just talking about opposition parties, and from the first to the 10 lines, everything, everything that is possible, tries to deceive voters, how the 200m roads are opened, how the factories are released, how the buildings are promised to be built, how everything and everything is promised, and these promises are fraud and false promises. Such procedures and processes are opposed to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55583	Six minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Nemanja Sarovic, who has the word, submitted to Article 5 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. I hope that Mrs. Kolundzhija will be able to bring an end to this consultation and gathering and the majority who will vote this law and I hope that, in accordance with what she said in the principle debate, she will be involved in the debate itself. We heard then that the wish was for the ruling majority to show that parliament had the strength, that they had democratically strengthened enough, and that, my God, after who knows how long such an important law would have been proposed by one parliamentary group, or by a group of MPs, rather than by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as, unfortunately, it has become common. You, Mrs Kolundzija, are the head of this group of MPs who are calling for some European principles, which you do not respect among other things, you are calling for the Venice Commission, you are calling for the OSCE, you are calling for the position of the Constitutional Court, but you are not referring to what you said before the Bulldozer of the Revolution of 5 October 2000. The very purpose of this amendment is to finally implement in life a provision on the formation of the Supervisory Board. You were all together before the 5 October existence of the Supervisory Board, as well as the proportionality in the selection of MPs and many other provisions as a condition of democracy. Of course, after you violently came to power, you quickly forgot those principles. The Supervisory Board is, you can say, one wild provision, perhaps even historic, although it still belongs to the current law, because that provision has never been implemented. The Supervisory Board has a very important function. I'll just read you a piece. Under a law that has been in force for 11 years, under which the Supervisory Board has never been formed by the ruling DOS majority, the Supervisory Board is competent to monitor party pre-election activities, to point out irregularities, to control public information funds, to control the equality of conditions for the presentation of electoral lists and candidates, it proposes concrete measures to establish that equality. If after 11 years there is no further Supervisory Board, why is it logical to ask yourself why? If the Supervisory Board is some kind of body that needs to establish fair, correct and democratic elections, then what could have justified you and forced you not to form this Supervisory Board for 11 full years? I think it's just your desire to keep hunting in the blur, to keep on in the media not knowing who's drinking and who's paying. First of all, I'm talking about RTS, which promotes certain parties, some who stole mandates after the election, who have an extremely privileged position, to promote the champions of DS, champions of the ruling parties, and that there is absolutely no response to such behaviour. We warned, even asking a parliamentary question concerning party equality, in the way political parties were financed, but had no one to react to it. How is it possible for us today to hear that someone in the campaign on Voždovec spent 50 or 60 thousand dinars, if only one billboard on the Dušanovo Bridge cost 313,000 dinars? The SRS didn't have any such billboards, but it was DS, it was SNS, it was other political parties, from G17 plus. How is this possible and why is there no organ that, whenever it is, will be able to detect such irregularities and say – people are not in line with common sense? As it is not in line with common sense, and I can deliver it to you, official TV B92, where one half-hour term for these elections cost more than a million and 600,000 dinars, and several such terms were used by DS, they were also used by the SNS. In the end, you say 30, 50, or 60,000 dinars were spent in the campaign. This is only possible for the reasons that there is no Supervisory Board, and unfortunately, it is not because your ruling majority has decided that, despite all calls to the OSCE, the Venice Commission and the Constitutional Court, and in the subsequent elections, it has committed the same thefts that it has done before. How is it possible that this Venice Commission of yours, which interferes in everything and everything, that this Constitutional Court, which has given itself the right not to interpret the provisions of the Constitution but rather to prescribe what is not written in the Constitution, and that even what is directly written in the Constitution, such as Article 102, derogates, how is it possible that they have nothing to say about this? How is it possible that you, who are such Democrats, did not mind that you had not formed the Supervisory Board for 11 years? It didn't bother you that for 11 years, you don't have a single polling list. During his time, Nebojsa Bakarec, as a representative of DOS, locked himself in the toilet when he escaped from the premises of the Republic Election Commission with parts of the electoral list and then promised to form a voter list within a few months. Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you choose the Supervisory Board? Is it because you're incompetent? And even you're not that incompetent. So it's certainly not even an excuse. It is about your conscious, defined will that, as you have conducted previous elections in irregular conditions, you should also conduct all subsequent elections in irregular conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55585	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55586	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. We need to go back a little bit to the past and see how things were going with the Supervisory Board. I'm not sure, in 1990, when they were voting whether the Supervisory Board was formed, but already in 1992, so all the next elections that were, there was always the Supervisory Board. Less or more, he had the jurisdiction of Article 99. Law on the election of MPs, which was passed at the end of 2000. The December parliamentary elections in 2000 were held without the Supervisory Board, i.e. there was the Supervisory Board, had some mandate, but the transitional government -- the triumphate did not allow the Supervisory Board to be activated. Of course, after that, it never occurred to anyone today to apply Article 99. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and when the Law on Radio-Difusion was passed, then high-minded thinking began as if the RRA Council had taken over some of the powers of the Supervisory Board. Of course, since I don't have to believe you, because I have a bad experience with you, I would just remind you, when you are already swearing on some democratic principles, parliamentaryism, some tradition, and obviously those who have proposed these amendments and the additions of the Law on the selection of MPs with democracy and parliamentaryism do not have a mild connection, I will remind you that in the existing Article 2. The law on the election of MPs has been written that citizens choose MPs on the basis of free, general, equal and direct electoral rights, and the technique that regulates this is a secret vote. So, the general, equal and direct electoral right is regulated by the provisions of the law, both in terms of active and passive voting rights, but how to preserve the freedom of electoral rights? In order to preserve it, in order to comply with the bans on overcoming and propaganda and illicit influence through propaganda, humanitarian and other activities at the free will of voters, the Supervisory Board, which should immediately sanction all such non-compliances in accordance with the law, was formed. To simply show it, it means, from the day of the election to the announcement of the final results, the two most important bodies in the Republic of Serbia should be RIK and the Supervisory Board. You have no intention of forming a Supervisory Board in accordance with the law, you have the intention, the desire to continue, that there is no such thing, that there are supposed to be some surrogates, so that you can unwittingly abuse propaganda and in the most brutal way endanger the freedom of citizens to form their own electoral will. The Supervisory Board should sanction all this and say who went over in the election campaign, who went with insidious blows, who was used with lies, who was used with desaviusation, etc. But it's the nomenclature of your activities. That's why something like this doesn't suit you, and that's why you won't even form something like this, but on the day of the election, there's going to be glasses, umbrellas, socks, artificial fertilizer, blocks, gitters, beautiful smiles, promises, here's the thing that's not going to be 1,000 euros free, and I had to lie because of Boris Tadic, to choose Boki, your Boki, not Boki 13 with "Pinka", but Boki, our President. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic wanted to see you for a little while, get you out of here, see who we are, what we are, where you are. It is very clear that your opinion that the Supervisory Board must exist within the meaning of Articles 99 and 100, and only on paper, because if it took over the actual powers that were written here, then half of your election campaigns would be in prison, due to overruns, violations, especially those 48 hours, not 48 hours of weddings, but 48 hours of voting. You know, when you guys rent out dates in the media, then when the commercials start, so how was the last time in the paper, the paper says, "We've charged that space, we're a little late" and so on. All of you, poor people, ignorant people, you don't know, in every way possible to endanger every single person's freedom to form his own electoral will. No, you hold the press. You hold the press and even when you attack, like last night, one attack by Americans, where they go for breakfast, but he doesn't actually attack them, but he scares the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's this "real policy". That's the policy, as one of your great officials said: "Look, guys, it's like that 19-man bar of robbers," when he explained what the NATO pact is, "so I walk into that bar and how are you going to do with 19 robbers? "He explained to us very nicely that NATO pact is one criminal institution. Of course, I refer to democratic principles, parliamentary traditions, the fact that behind these changes is DS, that these are democratic values. Of course, I expect not to see Veljko Odalović and Goran Vesic at the head of these election marifetluks. You know, when they show up, it's an election theft, it's a front. Swallow it, overcome that bone, swallow that bone, and say, "We must respect democratic principles." No, you're successfully defending yourself with silence, because you have 126. If it's 126 and the cause, and the consequences and the cure for our problems, respected citizens, for all the problems you have about both work and salary, contact a small group of 126, they're powerful, they can solve anything. So if you have any problems, the National Bank and the 126 in the National Assembly, because they're all powerful, they're always right. If you think there's something wrong with your home, please contact Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, as she is their authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55587	Seven minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Milorad Buh has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th Amendment, together with the correction, Alexander Jerkov and Olena Papug submitted their national letters. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the folk emissary of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55588	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, the amendment that Olena Papuga and I have submitted, although it is not in this list of adopted amendments by the committees, I would like once again to invite my colleagues from the ruling coalition and those from the opposition, above all fellow Members, to support it. The amendment refers to the fact that the provisions so far, the lists of candidates and election lists must be found in at least every fourth place of women, replacing that women must be found in at least every third place because we consider this to be the only way to provide real 30%, namely that women do not serve on pre-election lists only as some form in order to meet the content of that list, but rather to really ensure equality between men and women in politics. This is not a question of whether anyone thinks women belong in politics or thinks they belong at home next to the stove. It's simply that one who advocates equal opportunities policy actually respects the Constitution and the laws of this country. I will remind you, although I think it is very well known to all the MPs, that Article 15. The RS constitution prescribes equal opportunities policy and prescribes equal opportunities policy, and it also implies the adoption of specific measures that contribute to equality between men and women. Furthermore, the Law on Gender Equality in its Articles 3 and 7 confirms these provisions of the Constitution and prescribes the application of specific measures, which are precisely the measures proposed by this amendment, which I hope will be adopted. Article 8, to which my colleague, Papuga and I have submitted the amendment, is, in fact, the precise solution of Article 40a, so that at least 30% of women in parliament are truly guaranteed, which is the law's intensity and I hope the legislator. Although we have a provision that there must be at least 30% of women on the lists, there is no guarantee that these women will also be elected to parliament and therefore it is very important to adopt this law. In addition to binding on Serbia many international organisations whose member, such as the UN, the Council of Europe, is a positive EU legislation, and not only is it an obligation for 30% of women to be in parliament, 40% of women are now prescribed in the EU, and that is some intention of all EU member states. We believe that women in Serbia are as valuable as men, that women in politics in Serbia are as valuable as men, that there is no room for that argument where 30% of women will be found, where 30% of quality women will be found, which is one of the favorite phrases of our vice president. As many high-quality women as there are in Serbian politics, there are so many men, and unless we adopt such alternative actions, there will never be more. That is why I call on my colleagues to think about voting day and to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55589	Two minutes of parliamentary group time and one vote for the amendment were used. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55590	Democracy is really worth respecting in any society only when the method of its expression is good, or when it results. Let everyone be surprised, but I will repeat one sentence that Mrs Gordana Komic recently said – me, female persistent. It is one of the basic qualities of women to insist on women's perseverance in good things, which is that democracy shows the right results in practice. If women had more influence in politics, this house would be fuller. You know, every house where a real woman or, as my fellow citizen Alexandra Jerkov said, a high-quality woman quotes another woman, can create from a house a pleasant place where she likes to come, that house is full, children come in and learn from the example of parents how to behave. Parliament would indeed, I am convinced, have been a place where very important things happen, where in an appropriate way, these important things are talked about the life of all of us, in a more human, in a more feminine way, if the influence of women in politics were greater. Why is the influence of women in politics not greater? Because we have one of those solutions that means that a woman is icabana by being each third, for example, on the list, but no one guarantees that she will be chosen as every third on the list, and that is exactly what I insist: that rights and quality women, which are evaluated by the right, quality people, men and women, should be not only on the list, but also chosen and give these real evidence of democracy and democracy of parliament, which must play a central role in society, in the good society that progresses, and what a Serbian society must be. Not only is it satisfying the formal condition that was introduced in all parliaments in 95 years as a kind of obligation for women to be represented with 30% on all lists. In 2011, we discuss that a woman should be to a certain extent on the party lists, but we are still in doubt and we are discussing and we are putting positive pressure on everyone together that these women are indeed chosen. Why is it a problem for them to be on the lists and then to be chosen? Because men have declared politics a man's business. They feel that decisions are essentially made at cafe tables, in house seats, in mutual arrangements, and in calculating who will help whom to progress, to encourage, to drag, and help each other to succeed in life. Women expect that formal and real decisions are made and essentially taken at meetings, which do not necessarily have to be set in the evenings when women want to dedicate part of their working day to their families, whether they are married or not. A time of meeting, a way of leading political life largely prevents women from engaging in politics with their will and desire, and even when they want to, they are driven out of political life because of the way politics is supposed to and must lead. The place to start a real fight for women's real participation in politics is right here, and that's exactly what I want to make a full contribution to. I think that even though I normally give it, how immodestly someone calculated it, characterized or qualified it, personally I find it immodest to be decent dictionaries, arguments and solidarity with all those who are on track to solve problems, thinking of all of us and of a better society, I think that this is one of the amendments that should really be supported, not only formally, but to the end, that each woman is third and elected tomorrow in the electoral process in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55591	Five minutes and 20 seconds of time have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word. I'm sorry, People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55592	I'm sorry, maybe we called at the same time. I would like to say that I support this amendment, which my two fellow Members of the Assembly have submitted, by the fact that when the colleague explained the amendment, she called the first MPs, therefore, to the wives of the Members of Parliament. Now that there are a little more women in this House right now, I think it would be easier to find a common language about the adoption of this amendment. I will read, because of citizens watching the transfer, what they have proposed, that Article 8 or 4o of the existing law be amended, that on the electoral list among every three candidates in order on the list must be at least one candidate of that gender that is less represented on the list. If you accept this amendment, then several provisions will be fulfilled, e.g. from the Law on Gender Equality, which was adopted in this assembly in December 2009. I remind you all that a little less than two years ago we passed that law. It is now the Assembly, which passed that law, appears as someone who violates the laws it has passed. How, then, do we expect all those other institutions, organizations, business organisations, societies, etc. to respect this law, if we send them a message from this place – we make laws for the sake of such order, no one has to adhere to them, so neither does the Assembly itself? If the solution that is now in the law remains, 25% of women are provided. So that's not what the law says. This morning, I was talking about that we didn't get an opinion on those amendments that were rejected by the promoter, i.e. Hope for Kolundji, who led the task force that did this, and for no reason has this amendment been rejected. For our discussion, we would very much like to see what these reasons are and what are the reasons why this amendment is being rejected. Or, let me just say, what makes the DS think at this point that it needs to break the law and that instead of the prescribed 30, only by that law, that I'm not talking about other conventions that this country has signed, contracts, resolutions, etc., which is why it decided on this solution. I don't have that explanation, so I can't talk about it. What is still being violated here, perhaps indirectly, but obviously you have not understood the meaning of many of our 2006 Constitution's members, which speaks of gender equality, among other things, but also of the fact that the state is obliged to lead an equal opportunity policy. A policy of equal opportunities can sound like a phrase that doesn't have to be particularly understandable to some, but for us sitting here, it has to be understandable. What is the policy of equal opportunities? It's up to us, when the Constitution opened this whole door, the whole diapazon of mechanisms, tools, etc., to run that policy of equal opportunities, to take advantage of it. This law, if you've already entered into changing it, and apart from breaking the indirect constitution in this way, you're breaking it with these unsullied solutions about the blank resignations, you're breaking it here as well. Instead of taking advantage of this law, to show us now as the largest legislative body that we know that we need to run a policy of equal opportunities, you won't take that chance. I will remind the citizens, we MPs know this, at the beginning of 2004 and at the beginning of the work of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. One of the first laws voted in the Assembly was the Law on selecting MPs, when we ensured that national minorities did not have to cross the entry censorship, that is so-called. The natural threshold, and another very significant newspaper, was that on the list each fourth candidate had to be just the representative of the less represented sex. Yes, it was 25% at that time, but it was a very important and important step for Serbia and women in Serbia. I remind you of that, and yet I was talking about the Constitution, which in many members tells you that this country is bound to run a policy of equal opportunities, especially women. When it was the Law on Gender Equality, me and my colleague, Milica Vojić Markovic, discussed that 30 percent. In that law, it's full of 30 percent of that quota. We are like that, and as members of that less represented sex, but in this room alone, we are not in the country, because 52% of women live in the country, so there are more, so we are only in politics and in some institutions less represented. We're out of this room, we're more of a sex dealer. We've been discussing it, isn't it a little bit insulting for a woman when you tell her – here, we're going to give you that 30%, because if there's more, then it should be 50%? But we're aware that things can't go so fast, so you, too, some first steps, which was the first law to amend the Law on the selection of MPs, that was the first step, but it was important, very important. The second step was the Constitution, and now it's developing. It's supposed to develop, but as you do, and it's now a question not of the government, but of the MPs sitting here, I expect you to propose that next year there be only 10% less of the gender represented. I'm going to set an example, and I'm going to do it on purpose, Sweden. Sweden is an example of planned, organised, continuous activities towards increasing women's representation in parliament, resulting in a gradual increase in the number of parliamentarians. In 1971 the representation of women in parliament was 15%, in 1974 there was a rise to 21%, in 1988 the representation was 38%, and today it is 47%. This is an example of a quality policy of equal opportunities. I said I purposely state the case of Sweden. Why? Because when someone hears Sweden or Finland and Norway, which are European countries that have the highest standards here, the greatest achievements, you have an immediate reaction – it's easy for them, it's one regulated country, it's a strong economy, they have money, etc. But does one imagine, then, that this may be the result, above all, of the fact that 50% of women are now involved in political life in Sweden? I want to believe, and I know it's the result of these women's participation, not because it fell from the sky to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55593	Eight minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: We are tired of one Gordana Komić. ) I ask MP Zoran Krasic not to throw it away. I understand the pleasure of listening to these discussions, but let's just refrain and just listen. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55594	Of course, when amending and supplementing this law, we took care of respect for the Constitution and respect for the Law on Equality and these provisions, we did not violate the Constitution, nor the Law on Gender Equality, because the law says that 30% of candidates must be representatives of the less-represented sex. It is the predecessor who talks about how to criticise the ruling majority who has no hearing about equal opportunities policy, who sits in a party where there are not even 15% of women here in parliament. I don't think that's right at all. What we wanted to do as an additional safeguard mechanism is make it mandatory by law to have at least 30% of women on the lists, but at the same time, since the principle of granting a mandate based on the established order, that at least 25% of women be in parliament. That is why the MPs who proposed this law had agreement at first. We are working intensively to achieve agreement and acceptance of the amendments to Miss Jerkov, which would determine that each third on the list is a woman and thus allow us not only to have 30% of the candidates, but to have at least 30% of the women in parliament. I believe that in the voting day, everyone here who talked about how more women should be, we're going to show that we're ready and at least do something, so we can come to a vote and vote for what we're supposed to stand for, although in what we're doing, there's absolutely no evidence that we really do it in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55595	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55596	I won't waste my time on Mrs. Kolundji's replica, but the DSS parliamentary group has four women of 20, that's 20%, not 15, like 25% less than 30, which seems mathematically unclear to her. Of course it's a small number of women in the DSS, but there'll be a lot more, I'm sure. We were a joint club with New Serbia, we shared a list with them, and with their three women we had 27%, ma'am. We can count. Now let me try to mathematically explain some other inconsistencies that are very visible on this amendment. This inconsistencies between what the ruling majority and the government are doing on one side and what they write and they're talking about is amazing, and in every situation that's going on in this country, every law that comes here sees so much that it stares like a break-in. Therefore, I am not surprised that coalition partners in the ruling majority show a lack of hearing for such trips and that this law has no great chance of passing. It's best if I explain the examples. Here, this amendment is one example. Another example is that this government likes to say to itself that it is socially responsible and at the same time there are 1.3 million who are on the verge of poverty and 700,000 who live below the poverty line. They like to say that they fight hard for Serbia to become a country of employees, and only a pre-election promise of 200,000 jobs has already been forgotten by people because the data appeared, but not by the ruling majority, that 440,000 people lost their jobs during their term of office. They say they're a democratic government. Does the beginning of today's work in our Parliament look like democracy? Does the work of this Parliament look like democracy? Now I'd like to say something concrete about what we're talking about today. The way in which ten years ago, especially in the last five years, a story has been initiated about involving women in political life and in the real life of each of us, the repair of positions, the economic situation above all, the educational, social, the position of women in general in Serbia, and the way we talked here about the native sensitive language, the way we talked about the Gender Equality Act here, it was all one time that showed that things would move about improving women's position not only in parliament. It's ugly that as a woman, I have to talk in parliament about it, while most of our colleagues aren't here today. So, all of this showed that something existed as an upward path, but when the birth equality law finally came, it proved that the upward paths would not be very steep, in fact that everything was very nice and everything had one form, but the essence did not change, and the point is that the position of women in Serbia is weak and slow to repair. Many words have been used in this native sensitive language that does nothing to improve women’s position. He says it's getting more visible. I'm afraid this law doesn't get any more visible here today, they become the group of people who serve for some kind of procedure. The Democratic Party of Serbia in the first government of Vojislav Kostunica submitted a proposal to amend the Law on the election of MPs, and for the first time a 30% protection measure was introduced on election lists. I'm afraid we'll stay on it. (Hope of Kolundji, from the place: He won't.) ) In 2006, the Constitution was adopted, which also spoke about the position of women. I would not comment on the fact that the president of the parliamentary group is "no" because it fits the story I'm telling. When she says no, I'm sure she will. This means that seven years of some flow, of work, of information, of a terrible amount of work on it, the position of women has improved so little that each of us can say that and every woman looking at this today can say that. So he hasn't improved at all, my dear ladies and gentlemen, my dear. If you want to raise and improve something, raise the standard, as you like to say and talk about using European standards, then go ahead, ladies, respect that 30%, and then we'll talk about the Constitution being respected. Otherwise, we have made a central question of something that is not the central issue of this law. The central question is that you're tearing down the Constitution, which is the blank resignations, they're the constitutional category, which you're removing 30% of the women on the lists, they're the constitutional category. That's what this is about. Whether you and I are going to look at each other and say, "You did it or you didn't do it doesn't matter at all." It's important to fix something in this country, and everything you take, you spoil it. So I'm absolutely sure you've ruined this question, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55597	Five minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, in my desire to truly support the amendment of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina League, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuge, I am surprised and found that they have even found resistance within the congregation's majority that this amendment may be accepted and that we are now in a position to defend it in this way. Not wanting to succumb to the general practice of flirting with democracy in this home, and this home has really mirrored the cocktails in this field, I really want to remind you that this amendment is almost mandatory to be adopted, because before it is passed some laws that oblige us to do so. Also, I would like to remind you that this amendment is not enough to fight, if it is adopted, as Colundji's colleague said, that you are all heartily insisting that it goes, which is not good, he has already had to be here as adopted, so, to ensure that at least 30% of women enter parliament for a lot of reasons. Of course, that percentage should be higher, but by law like this, you'll see, and the next term will have the same problem. This is about the application of democracy, about what Europe expects, about what we are constantly saying to Europe that we are doing or the ruling majority is saying that it does, and it does not seem, is enough just to be ominous, as the people say, to count on the women's name in parliament in parliamentary groups and you will see that there is only one thin "d" left of democracy and according to the previous decision. I am responsible for saying this because I come from a parliamentary group that is the only one here who has 33% of the women in its composition. We're proud of it. I believe that even in the next term, New Serbia will not have a problem being even 50% of women, if we estimate that we have 50%, perhaps a higher percentage, of women of quality to be there. So we don't have that kind of problem. What I also resent to the parliamentary majority, who did not report on this by insisting on this amendment, even a colleague may have to remind his colleagues to be more convincing in their arguments, is that in the reconstruction of the government the worst of the last woman, or, to be open to the people's language, the prime minister first cleaned up women, and these very high-quality women who have shown themselves extremely well in their work. Maybe that's why they're off the hook. I remind you that this amendment should be adopted, that it really should be supported, but I am truly caught, surprised that the majority of the assembly, which is so much talking about Europe and all European principles and all European values, did not have hearing and brought us into this situation that we, from the opposition today, are so warmly and I believe we sincerely defend this amendment from our fellow Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55599	Three minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55600	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as a member of the political party who has always advocated gender equality and the implementation of equal opportunities policy, I am aware of the fact that statistics and genders are not available and that, unfortunately, there are almost no equal numbers of men and women in their ranks, and I am also aware that the signal that will give women the opportunity to participate more in politics should come from this home. I therefore think that the amendment of my colleague, Papuga and my colleague Jerkov, is significant because it does not only provide 30% of women on the lists, because what we seem to be making a mistake is that this proposal is precisely proposed by 30% of women on the lists, but in order to be each fourth, and it did not propose 30% entry into parliament. And this way I would equally ask my colleagues, my colleagues and all those who have discussed this amendment today to support it, because right then we will show what we all need to do together, which is to implement a policy of equal opportunities and to implement a policy of equal opportunities, because one such affirmative measure, unfortunately, is still necessary for Serbia to build democracy. I thank and call on everyone once again to support this amendment, because this can create a better quality and trust greater representation of women in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55601	One minute and 45 seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55602	Of course, about this amendment that's a positive thing. After all, here is the question of the definition of the ruling majority, or the legislator of this law. That definition has been extremely unfathomable since the very beginning, that's the essence of the story. You can't really know what the Proposer wants and the Proposer means the debate is going on. On the one hand, it is interesting and fun and would suit the spirit of parliamentary democracy if the arguments presented in the discussion could contribute to a more crystallistic, better solution to the bill. This, however, is about something completely different. From the initiative itself to amend and supplement laws to the day of today, he means not because of democratic dialogue, but because of the pressure on the applicant, he starts from the EU to the individual circles in the country itself. So this isn't about as much a concept as it is about saving your head from the pressure that's coming. So this law contains amazingly strange solutions. It starts with that solution he's talking about. the abolition of the blanco resignations of the law, which are sterilized by the Constitution, and we know very well what the blanco resignations mean, because it's already a folk term, so that we don't explain what it is, which is absolutely impossible, where the bill promoter is trying to convince us that it's all in accordance with the Constitution and everything is wonderful, calling for some other decisions of the Constitutional Court that don't concern us at all. That now, when it comes to this one single change in the law that was at the very beginning was a pure idea and against which the DSS had nothing to do with the protection of the minor gender, such scandals and circuses have occurred in the past ten days since this law has been here in the procedure, that it's amazing. That circus was not contributed by Alexander Jerkov and Mrs. Papug who submitted this amendment, which I repeat is positive again. So, there's nothing wrong with that amendment, he's a good amendment. The problem is that this amendment is a natural consequence of people who have gathered on the side of the promoters and who do not know how to write the law. I'll explain it very simply. Namely, the colleagues who submitted this amendment had a pure desire that my parliamentary group absolutely agreed to be at least one third of the minority sex in the Assembly Hall when the mandates were assigned. So, let's be clear here. However, the problem is something else, which when disorganization is on the side of the promoter, then neither the current regulation nor the changes and additions of the regulation are properly written. This is where the concepts go down one-third, 30%, since anyone who's taught elementary school and mathematics there knows that 30% is less than one-third. One third is 33.3%, and 30% is less than one third. The safeguard measure in this assembly can be either 30%, or one-third, or two-fifths, or whatever you want, you can define yourself, but it can't be both. It can't be 30% and one-third. You can't say that the minimum protection measure is 30% on the list, watch the list, and then insist that you have a third in parliament. How can we protect one-third of the parliament, not protect one-third of the list? No one has proposed any amendment to this law that would protect one-third of the list. Then, colleagues submit an amendment, which actually means protecting one-third of the list through the obligation that each third candidate must be a representative of the less represented sex, but then, however, in the provision of that same member, there remains a 30% figure on the list. You have an amazing thing, a ridiculous thing in the law, that you will have maltenes in one sentence two different criteria, that a man starts on the head, smiles or I don't know what he does with that paper or the law that you adopt. You don't technically have an amendment, on today when we have a debate in particular you don't have an amendment that would fix this nonsense. You can only fix that nonsense with technical changes after the vote, get them through it if everyone agrees. You know, it just doesn't work that way. This is the best proof that you have no idea what you're writing, nor do you know what you want. That accusing others of not being ready for standards, that's one barren and mere story of yours, which is as old as your political party is, and that's how disqualifying your opponent. The fact that someone can't advocate breaking their own constitution and making provisions about so-called. repealing the blanco resignations by law and trampling the provisions of Article 102. The constitution, the fact that someone cannot advocate that the workings of this assembly are due to the pressures that we suffer, which we have put our heads on the tree, with our perverse behaviour and disrespect for that same Constitution and the provisions of Article 102 in Parliament, that someone thinks and rightly thinks that, does not give you the right to disqualify that someone who opposes the normal, resonative and healthy standards that the democratic world knows. You're not the progeny of democracy, you're not the chief guardian of democracy, you're not the guardian of these principles. If anyone is stepping on those principles in this country, especially in these last three years on all sides and in all possible ways, it's you. That's exactly what you're doing. How can you be the protector of the great democratic principles when you advocate this same amendment of the law to violate your own Constitution of your own state? That's completely impossible. That's one impossible position you're putting yourself in. Then, under the protection company of the less-represented sex, you offer us solutions that are arrogant and catastrophic and that will, unfortunately, appear the next day in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", which will be sold and distributed here, by companies, state institutions and in the stores of the "Official Messenger", so that the people who are written legally read the stupidity that you adopted. You know, that's not the way to work here. This hasn't been good since the beginning. It's not the way you talk about this law, and it's not a good way to propose this, and it's not good what you suggested. It's a big problem with you here. I'm sure in September or October you'll go back to changing and supplementing this bill, because in one clean thing, and that's respect for the order on the list, you've confused yourself, you've made a circus out of which you won't be able to get out because you have problems with your own coalition partners. You don't know how the solution will be applied when it comes to coalition agreements. In article 15, you disqualified your own written Article 15 by accepting the amendment of Branko Ruzic, who wanted to protect those people on the list who became members of the government, so when they stopped being members of the government, they returned to parliament. That was important. And the fact that, from his amendment to Article 15, he threw out the possibility, read well what you got, and what you accepted, that he had rejected the obligation that, if the term of office stops a minority sex member, that member of the minority sex would be replaced by the first one on the minority sex list, that doesn't matter. Branko Ruzic practically disqualified the protection of the less represented sex in the subsequent extraction with his amendment and you accepted it coldly. You've taken it coldly, and you'll vote for it in the day of the vote. It says here, this paper writes well – the amendment is accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation, the amendment reads as it is, the first position of what happens when his mandate expires before the time on which the MP is elected, the second attitude with three points of view speaks of how to protect ministers and members of the government who have stopped being members of the government, and would like to be further MPs. There's a point. It's about what happens next with attitudes 3 and 4 that they become 4 and 5, etc. Where is this provision that, if the term of office of the less-represented party ceases, it must be replaced by the first one on the less-represented sex list? She's not here because she's out. As soon as you accepted this amendment, you disqualified that norm. Are you aware of what you're doing? You have no idea what you're doing! This is a huge shame and a huge scandal for the state that you're doing here, starting with breaking the Constitution, to this mess you're doing, and you're going to have to explain it to the citizens. There's something you're surprised at what I'm saying. If you do not understand, take the stenogram and read carefully. Compare what I'm saying to what you have in front of you on paper, and you'll see. So that's the fact that we're facing, I don't know when you'll have the day to vote, tomorrow, the election, the honor. Now I'm going to explain, so that one day it would be known to enter the stenogram and that those who watch the transmission know what the DSS's position is. Yes, it's a good amendment, we'd be happy to support it and we'd like to support it like this. So we will publicly support him when it comes to his intensities, but please vote. Because tomorrow we cannot be at a vote, to vote with our presence and cards at the moment of voting for this law on those who, no matter what, and on this amendment, will vote the law that violates the Constitution. We can't do that. We can't just go back and put a card on it for one good amendment. No, please, you do it. You do it because you deserve to do it and because you are obliged to do it, and don't call the opposition, if the amendment is great, so, please vote for it. No, you vote if you're sure he's great.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55603	Nine minutes used by the president of the parliamentary group. MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55604	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I cannot understand the parliamentary majority, what do you want with this law? First, you in the election year, so the election year started on May 11th, this is your fourth year of the election you've won and made most of it, you're changing the election law. The second thing, you define in this law many concepts that are unclear to us. Here, specifically, when we talk about the amendment that was in the debate at the time, what did you define and how did you define the concept of what a less represented sex is? Where did you come up with this notion, and who is the lesser gender in Serbia? Well, men are a less represented sex in Serbia. Over 51% of women live in Serbia. So men have 48 points something percent. Therefore, men are less gendered in our country. Now you define a less represented sex. Where? In Parliament. It wasn't an election yet. The question is who will be and what will be the relationship of strength. You have simply begun to make, here, from the discussion you can see, various combinations that do not guarantee without certain amendments that there will really be one third in Parliament, or every third on the list to be a woman. What's gonna happen? Of course, those who become ministers and who get into a variety of functions, withdraw, if the next one goes off the list, that relationship can change drastically. Here's an example of New Serbia, which is what we were talking about here. We now have 33% of women in parliament. Realistically, it means, not on the list, but in parliament. Where are you? What's your number? Where are you in government? You should have six-seven female ministers in the government, gentlemen. How much do you have? You have two wives. You drove out of the government the best minister who didn't let the law be broken, Diana Dragutinovic. In my opinion, I'm from the opposition, Mrs Dragutinovic, we've been having heated debates here, but she was a very correct minister who didn't allow anything artificial to be maintained and to break the law and hitchhike many projects that didn't have cover. So, how many of your directors are women's public enterprises? None, gentlemen, none. Give me a public firm where the director is a woman. You don't have any. This is all an empty story you're telling us, and tomorrow you're gonna mess it up. This is the only thing the opposition respects, which you can see, and they will respect. You, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, must think very hard about what your goal is. Whether you're doing something clean to show an apparent democracy or to do something to make it really good. That's why it's not a good thing for the regular number to be called MPs. I fought against it on both the task force and the college and here in parliament, and that's not right. That's not what the EU asked us to do. It is something our government has proposed to accept in that package given by the EU. This is not at all required by the EU. It is logical that this amendment to which it is accepted, because then it will be clearly defined, if every third woman is on the list and logically, that if a woman goes off the list to some function to replace the next one from the list, but a woman, not to be a regular number to come. A man will come, and we will eliminate one by one, and we will come to parliament in a very unpleasant situation that is not good. Not to mention the motive in the election for good results, where all parties will have a big problem. Of course, you from the ruling coalition will, as usual, make voters, and you will say: "Well, you will all be satisfied; these two hundred will enter the parliament, for we will receive power, and they will be MPs, and the mayors, and the secretaries of the state, and the helpers and all these will be numbered." So you'll somehow win people over that you'll do some real thing and everybody's hoping. But the facts show that you will lose the election, gentlemen. That's obvious. Don't tell stories now. I see that your MPs are now commenting - that we enter power, then half of them will go to various functions, and then the other half will come to the beginning and all will be in the hope that they will become MPs. That's not true. You will surely be the opposition in the next term. That's what it stands for. Now you're going to get into big trouble. You will have on the list of current ministers, mayors who will lose power after the election tomorrow. You won't be able to bring them to parliament because you've closed the door for them yourself. The MP cannot become, while he is still a minister, until the government is established. When the government is established, you can never change it. You can't find a place for him to enter parliament. So, you've had very good suggestions here, good amendments, but you're not going to adopt them, you're going to stubbornly force what you've drawn, to push it through, without any cover. That's why there'll be trouble after the election. That is why it was wise to withdraw this law, in the election year, never to change the electoral law, and to put it all away, to enter the constitutional procedure of change, so that it would be all right and, of course, for the next elections that come after these elections, prepare fair and fair laws, to put the government on the agenda in full term, to put the next parliament, in the full term, to change the electoral law and to have time to prepare for some of the next elections. But you won't do it all the time. That's why it's not worth our warning from the opposition. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, once again I want to tell you – you will surely be an opposition in the next elections and consider your position. You yourself are working against yourself now, counting that you will survive, that you will get power, and that shows no fact today. Of course, some of you will be maybe, but a small part, which is now suggested, but most of you will be opposition-oriented and you will sit in this parliament and curse what many laws you have passed as power, which will be broken into your head. Understand the folk, whoever digs another pit, falls into it. So that's how it's going to be, and I'm really asking you to withdraw this law and not do what you do in the election year, because this is the election year, 11 May has started the election year, so not the election year, but the election year for the next election. When will it be? It doesn't matter, a month, two, three, there-there, but we're in the election year now, and you forget it. Don't chase witches now, don't chase now, don't do a lot of stupid things you do now, concentrate. In the election year, the results of your three-year work are submitted. In the election year, you have to go out with the projects and programs you've done. Don't tell me what's gonna happen in three years. In three years, someone else will present it all, work it out, take care of it. And this, for the three years you've done, you talk about it now. But since you don't have a story here, you're now telling what's gonna happen in 2013, 2014, 2015, and you've even reached 2020. You're a long way off. What do you mean? What do you have to do with 2020? You don't have anything to do with it. Now you're explaining to us what's going to happen? You say there wasn't much work in this period, but that's why you created the conditions to do a lot by 2020. Please, it's a funny story. In the election campaign, you set certain dates, defined certain projects, set certain deadlines, and did not respect any deadlines. I was expecting 200,000 cars in 2010. It's your program and export to the Russian market. The project has failed. You failed, and you won't say it. Now you're going out with another project, a third project, a fourth project, and everything seems to be out of order and you've become ridiculous. Now, of course, you're talking about what could have been, what happened and what would have happened in seven, eight, nine, ten years. Therefore, you were unable to bring us into the EU in 2013, and you promised, and that is a great minus. You haven't even managed to become candidates. Something you're hunting to make some deal, candidates, but not to start negotiations, something to do on some waiting list, something to combine, to improve the position, but it's transparent. Now you're going with electoral law, explaining that by changing the electoral law, you're going to do something to improve your position. You have a nice MP, who proposes a smart amendment, to clearly define the position of a particular structure, which will appear in the elections and you will not, but you want to stay open and then play what was inevitable to do. Show in part that you have defined something clearly, loudly and precisely. You're indeterminate everywhere. I've been proposing here for months, adopting people's budget rebalances, don't do it by heart, maybe you'll get caught up in some snap elections, no rebalancing, and you won't have a parliament to accept it, you'll get hurt. It can't be an undefined budget, we adopted it here. No one respects the budget law. Do literally whatever you want. Now you're changing the electoral law, introducing us into a new, hopeful category of voting bodies, but still undefined. Give me something to define. Come on, when we get out of this Parliament, this calls out to say, we've defined something and that's the point. If you've passed the Information Act, stand behind it, bad, you've brought it in to protect a certain leader of yours. If you've passed the Anti-Corruption Act, you've defined it, ruined it, twisted it, mutilated it, and, of course, there's nothing you can do now because literally no one respects the Constitution, do whatever you want. And now you're breaking the Constitution, don't cover yourself with words, now the Constitutional Court has said, tomorrow someone will ask you and interpret you differently. So at least accept the smart amendments of your coalition, which suggest that you define certain positions clearly and loudly. Just once again, I want to subdue at the end, don't hope you'll be power next time. Your results are so bad, you'll certainly be an opposition. And what you do now in this election year, make it right, clear and loud. Don't get into a variety of adventures that haven't defined anything. We know you have internal poisoning, problems, reports. It's a shame, you're coming to us from the opposition and giving us papers to attack your coalition partners. We don't want to do that. So think about it. Don't let me start that story and start talking. You come in with the papers and push us.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55605	The word has the vice-president of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55606	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that this amendment by fellow Members Jerkov has drawn attention from the essence of this law, which suspended democratic processes in Serbia and abolishing the resignations, closing the lists, and the SRS is so explicitly against this way of changing the electoral law. On the other hand, as we speak, and during this debate, we have reached the correction of Mr. Colakovic's amendment. We also hear in assembly towers that some debate is being held again, so you will still be able to collect enough MPs to vote this law that dictates to you the EU and some Venice Commission, but I really have to go back to the essence of this story about equal opportunities and the role of women in Serbian politics because I am a Serbian radical and because I belong to a party who, from the beginning, therefore, has promoted such an opportunity in Serbia regardless of the odds, regardless of 25-30% because we have shown it in part. That the same confusion was with you and that you're just declaring it, so that's why you don't know at least in the Shumadia in your municipal organizations all the parties that are in power, you don't have any women activists, not even in the leadership of those committees, not in the main functions. That's because you women treat as a less represented sex in the category of one digit. You should include this in the law as your dictatorship has arrived, and in reality, in your essential political life and in your work, beginning with the leaders of your parties, through everyone in your hierarchy, you do not fight for it. The right to tell you, since there are a number of registered women's voters in Serbia, I constantly invite them, as well as all other colleagues and colleagues, not to vote for you and your policy. Why? You brought Serbia to the brink of poverty and poverty. Today there are more hungry, both women and children and their husbands and sons. You kicked them out of work, sold them to tycoons why the companies they worked for. Look at our education, what our health care is, look at the situation in all segments of social life. Well, it is normal that they should not even be motivated and go your way through the EU and vote for your parties. And why this is happening and why the process is so positive, without these quotas and without these discussions about whether it takes this much or so, present in the SRS. I must remind you, Mrs. Comic came out, you were not an MP at the time to Mr. Novakovic, but you were Mrs. Kolundžija, though in Covic's party, but it doesn't matter, when there were 176 MPs of the DOS, so after the five-octobar coup. You could set up whatever you want. I am a political student of Dr Vojislav Seselj, so I repeat to you one part of what he told you then, and in 2002 – how it came in the first place to find at least one part of the opportunity for women to be on the list and to be elected councillors. The amendment of your colleague from that DOS conglomerate, Leila Ruzdic, did not want to accept the parliamentary majority, and then the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, came out as a pay phone and said that this is not why the SRS is doing it, from the same initiatives as you, in order to find a number there, but because of the fact that we want our ideology and policy that we promote, as I and my fellow Serbian brothers and sisters do here, everywhere and in every place, to get as many of the less represented sexes, which are women in Serbia, to be motivated, to engage in political life and to make their contribution. How we do it, to teach you something, since you obviously have a problem, and you all come down to numbers and numbers, and you can't agree on it; and without the obligation of the law, of course, you know that we are the only political party in Serbia who, state-owned and indeed, acts in the context of the ideology of Serbian nationalism and of all the positive values of Serbian society, we have handled it, and we have begun to motivate both men and women alike to approach and join our fight against such a regime. Against globalisation, against the EU, against NATO, and at local levels and in the environments, not only to be icabaned on the committee lists, but to actively participate in the political life of the party, in one Raca, in Lapovo, Surdulica, wherever in smaller areas, and to actively deal with what we represent here from the highest legislative level. We do not have any obligation in the SRS Statute to select at least one-third of women in the election of 10 members, elected by the annual assembly of the municipal organisation for a term of one year, but in each municipal board of Serbian radicals in Serbia, among those 10 members, elected by the highest body of the municipal assembly, there are at least three women, and here in Krusevec we had a case with a huge number of elected council members, even through that quota that you have prescribed. So that's not the problem. Otherwise, it's an extremely difficult situation for everyone, and you can't watch now that women are much worse and harder to live. And their husbands, you know, how when they lost their jobs after 20 or 30 years, they couldn't train their children, they couldn't retire, they kicked them out of this ZO from Kragujevac, or in other cities, as they had already thought of raping these people. Please, the point here is that we are changing society, whether we are women or men, to fight every evil that you promote, and the greatest evil is that you want Serbia and that you crash into the EU, which is destroying your economy, which is taking away our southern Serbian province and which is doing everything that children in Serbia do today, and future mothers and those who already are, are having a hard time living and not seeing their perspective. That is why I am grateful to my colleagues and to the parliamentary group, and above all to our president who first promoted that there should be no quota, but to fight for what is our ideology and what is our direction for a better future for Serbia, and above all I am grateful to the citizens of Serbia, who understand these clear messages, and they do not understand and understand, be sure, in the next elections to accept that by the dictatorship of Western powers you are doing all this and in this way destroying and humiliating democratic processes in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55607	The word is made by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Ms Gordana Komic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55608	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, fulfilling my promise made in the debate in the principle of amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, when I spoke in favour of the support of the amendments of my colleagues, today I want to reiterate that the amendment that provides for the election lists, and then in order and in the assembly of the future composition of the NSRS, is each third woman, or every third candidate, of the less represented sex. It was a pleasure to be in this room today, and it was a pleasure and to chair and listen to all my colleagues and colleagues, because it was quite clear that we had awareness of what kind of important subject we were working on, when seemingly only a small change, intended for order on lists, not every fourth, not two in 10, but every third, or three in 10 mandates, so it was a pleasure to listen to how important we really felt about the matter. Why is it important? Because it's about winning freedom. One who decides to deal with parliamentaryism, one who decides to carry thousands of votes of others, who can't get to where he decides, feels infallible when it's important to win that freedom, how hard it is to win freedom, and how important it is to speak out loudly that freedom is won, and does not deserve freedom to win, and does not give. The amendment of our fellow Members is the conquest of that small line of freedom, between the two MPs among the 10 MPs, in the three MPs among the 10 MPs. Why is that so hard? Why is it so important to argue that it doesn't matter anyway that we'll choose at least three out of 10 or maybe four out of 10, and why it's so hard to explain, and why we're not already three folk seats in 10 or why we're not five in 10? Because it's a woman's conquest of freedom, because only a hundred years ago, women struggle with common efforts to vote for themselves, and only twenty years in a joint effort are trying to vote for themselves the right to representivity in decision-making places. Why is it winning freedom? Because in nor does any idea that a woman should be evenly represented in places where power is decided is not a struggle for power and not a struggle for power sharing, but a struggle for sharing responsibility. A talented politician understands that. I chaired the assembly session when MP Vojislav Seselj submitted an amendment of 30%. Did he understand the idea I don't know if he understood the goal I don't know, but that he understood that winning freedom was important to others, that I know for a fact and we all understand that in this room. The only problem that has arisen is how can we from the opposition that we have legitimacy and legality, in a decision not to attend the vote at the National Assembly session in the voting day, how can we still be present in the voting day without jeopardising our previous decisions, we are the opposition, we are not taking part in the vote, although it is difficult to understand, but it is legal and legitimate, and therefore there is knowledge and skill to win freedom. We will tell you enough time to be there, enough time to just spend your parliamentary energy and will, so clearly seen today in this room, to vote for the amendment of the People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga, and to show together that winning freedom is sometimes something against the usual routine and usual strategy when you are an opposition party, as I will, in the name of the conquest of freedom, certainly, the first to vote for the amendment of the People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55609	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55610	Mr. Novakovic, I don't know where I am, I'm just confused. Anyway, let's take it straight. Very nice, you know, but don't get in your mouth at all, so weak. What's this about? Mr. Milovanovic submitted an amendment to Article 40a and asked for the words "in 48 hours" to be added at the end of the sentence. What does that mean? If the applicant of the electoral list does not respect what is written in paragraph 1, now, what is written in item 1, that is, no one knows whether it is on each four by one, whether on each three by one, whether any other mathematics, we do not know yet, but it is said – if there is no respect for what is in attitude 1, what is, God help us, RIK will invite the applicant of the electoral list to remove the shortcomings, what is written in paragraph 1, and that God helps us, we do not know what is written there either. Here's just a forgotten deadline in which the electoral bearer should correct those mistakes. Milovanovic wrote that the deadline would be 48 hours. Since these regulations are written by dunsters, people have no idea about this area, as the Law on the financing of political parties has written to us by Bozidar Djelic with Alexander Drecun, we have survived well these seven-eight years, what is there since the nebulose, God save me, so something says in attitude one, but we don't know what it says. Mr. Novakovic, the right of every MP is to submit an amendment, but when a small well-organised group of 108 MPs begins with Agatonovic and ends up in the end with Esad Djudjevic, writes a proposal to amend and supplement the law, there is Aleksandra Jerkov, then they submit an amendment to their bill, and we still don't know whether the proposal was passed. Wait, what did you agree on when you wrote the proposal? Who wrote you a proposal? Did someone plant this on you? Then Ruzic puts something in, so no one knows about the amendment, so we hear that amendment has been accepted. Then Momo Colakovic trades a little. We see, it seems, and his amendment will be. Wait, are you aware of what you signed? When were you the right one: when you signed the amendment and the amendment of the law or are you the right one when you write the amendments? Or is this a deal so the hairs don't get to you? We know about your tactics and we're letting you sink completely. Just to remind you, since some percentages are already being talked about, a recommendation that was only a recommendation, as a political declaration that should be an indication of how to achieve some aspirations, someone also under pressure from abroad realized that it should be a norm, and so came norm. When the recommendation becomes a norm, then we have stupidity and variation on the subject of stupidity. Then a conclusion is drawn about some order that is the Holy Scriptures. The order was never the Holy Scriptures, but the order was respected only if the political party did not want to use its authority to determine who should be assigned to its election list. Then there was automation. You see how pointless that is when every fourth is one in the smaller half, each third and one in the smaller half. Who knows what's gonna turn out in the end? Then the less present sex jumps. So, what the hell were you doing with the list? What's the list binding? You've got all the positive discrimination. You know what the basis for positive discrimination is: what's up with Nadia? What is Hope's criterion, please explain to me? What would the Venice Commission be a criterion? The Venice Commission is being fenced, she says – amen people, these are our recommendations, perhaps we too are mistaken. No, you're going with the labels right now. Today we're talking about absolutely peripheral things, and the main thing is going around, and we're going to get to that main thing very quickly. Article 102(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you have no right to neither 126 nor 130 nor 250 to violate the provision of Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You all agree to do, just pretend blind, you don't know that this norm exists. Pretend a little more blind than that Constitutional Court with Boss Nenadic, she forgot about it. It calls for some European Court of Human Rights, so it draws the square root from three sentences, from two decisions, where some insinuations are made, and that makes international standards. So where is this international standard? You had to admit in your bill that there is no obligation to comply with international standards, because there is no international standard. What the hell are you doing here? We know what it is. You want to steal the election. The port of Belgrade has to stop, the mouth has to stop, everyone has to call for good propaganda and you have to have absolute control, from the polling post across the media. Why? It must not fail to travel to the EU, although it is suicide. I was just listening to these ladies over here, and I'm about to cry. Excuse me, dear colleagues, I assume you're some commercials for women to deal with politics. According to Gordana Comic, it is hardly a commercial for women to deal with politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55611	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Shehovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55612	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 9. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the election of MPs, whose solution concerns the minimum number of signatures required for the application of the electoral list. I will quote my amendment -- the electoral list submitted by the political party of the national minority was established when it was supported by at least 1,000 voters. This amendment amends Article 9. The draft law by adding a new position in Article 43 of Law 1 setting out the required number of voter signatures for support, i.e. a confirmation of the electoral list submitted by the party of the national minority, thus equating with the number needed to establish a political party of the national minority. According to the Law on Political Parties, a political party of national minorities, to register, is required to support a thousand signatures, and for a party that does not represent a national minority, 10,000 signatures are foreseen. This law on political parties provides for a positive discrimination against members of national minorities, so that they can participate in the political life of the country under certain expedient conditions. With my amendment, I would like to establish a certain type of analogy with amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs, so that, as foreseen by the Law on Political Parties, the participation of minority members in political life is facilitated, so as to facilitate the participation of minority members in the elections. By accepting this amendment, we will also facilitate the participation of minority members in political life by allowing them to participate in political life with a thousand signatures. I'm going to support my amendment with one example. If, for example, an electoral list representing a national minority needs a natural threshold, i.e. in practice 14-15 thousand signatures, depending on turnout, and according to the current law, it takes 10,000 signatures to register a certain electoral list for participation in the elections. So the ratio of the number of votes needed to win the term of office is 1.5 times higher, so 15,000 votes to win one term, and 10,000 signatures to participate in the elections. When we compare a political party that is on the verge of censorship, i.e. which has passed the census, which won 5% of the votes cast plus one, in our terms, it usually stands at around 180 thousand votes, and when this ratio of the required number of votes of the political party that entered parliament, therefore, won the censorship, compared with the required number of signatures for participation in the elections, that is to say, to give them an election list of 18. So you need to win 18 times more votes than you need signatures. You will agree that if a particular political party has a foothold in its electoral body, it is much easier to get 15,000 voters' votes than it is necessary to verify 10,000 signatures. I would also like to call on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says in an area that regulates human and minority rights, that members of national minorities have a proportionate participation, i.e. adequate representation in representative bodies. By accepting this amendment, I think we will ensure that the provisions of the Constitution are respected and, on the other hand, I don't think this is to the detriment of any political party, or of any political party representing the interests of national minorities. One more thing to tell you, the Republic of Serbia has passed a lot of laws in the human and minority rights sector. I think she's in this area one of the countries that's among the first in the region and that's good. On the other hand, the implementation of these laws that treat the area of human and minority rights is very bad and we have a huge disproportionateity. That's what I'm saying with this amendment. The law on political parties allows members of national minorities to participate in political life in a more light way and, on the other hand, when members of national minorities participate in the elections, which is the finale of a political activity, we make it difficult for them to participate by asking them for 10,000 signatures.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55613	The amendment, which added new members of 9a and 9b after Article 9, was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Here you go, Mr. Cholakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55614	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members of Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs has been prepared by representatives of the ruling coalition. The PUPS parliamentary group took part in this. He emerged as a commitment from the agenda for EU accession, and we did not dispute that. What does the law predict? Three groups of changes and additions are foreseen. The first is related to the blank resignations, the second is related to the establishment of closed lists and the third are legal and technical corrections in the existing law. With regard to determining the order on the list, we have seen certain problems that may arise from coalitions that are established in pre-election activities, and in this respect we have proposed that Article 9 be changed, in order to create preconditions for Article 15 to be changed. Given that during today's day we had consultations within the ruling coalition, the president of the parliamentary groups, I was suggested to make certain amendments to Article 15, and I did so myself. In consultation with the Legal Service, I came to the conclusion that Article 9 does not need to be changed, and in this respect it would be groundless if the amendment, in which I have made certain amendments, would be accepted. That is why I do not think there is a need to speak more widely about this amendment, and I will talk about the amendment to Article 15 later. Let me also say that our parliamentary group will support the amendment submitted by Miss Jerkov and the Papuga for the less represented gender on the lists and in the selection of MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55615	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. The amendment, which added new members of 9a and 9b together, was submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. The word is Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55616	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, as my predecessor Mr. Momo Colakovic said, has been submitted by JS MPs as a prerequisite to adopt the amendment that we have submitted to Article 15 and have created conditions for coalition elections not to be damaged, so to speak, by the parties who have fewer candidates on the lists for the election of MPs. What were we going to say about this? If such principles were not adopted in the RIK coalition lists, with established parities after a number of votes won normally to cross the censorship, unless the principle that each list of parties and groups of citizens who have a number of candidates was adopted and according to a coalition contract certified by the competent national authority thus producing legal facts would not be respected by the provisions of the coalition contract. The question arises – what is the purpose and purpose of applying coalition agreements that predict what and how many parties in the vote's coalition are given the right to receive a number of seats based on the results achieved in the vote? That's one, let me put it that way, side of the medal. The other side is that in the event of some results and obtaining a number of mandates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, one party can remain from the coalition for any reason, I will not go away from those most unfavourable, disease or far more difficult, without one or more MPs, if we strictly stick to what is provided for in the amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. By the way, because of the general public, the JS MPs did not sign this bill and did not participate in it, if we had participated, they would certainly not have agreed to this election proposal. So, if I were to go back to this, if we were to lose one of the MPs, if we strictly stuck to the order of the candidates registered to the Republic Election Commission, those parties would be left without a mandate, or a coalition agreement would not produce legal facts, which means that they were free of charge and delivered to the Republic Election Commission. Here, calling on certain recommendations from the Venice Commission by some participants in the discussion, I think it's deplaced, at least as much as I had insight into that recommendation. I don't get it, so I'd like these young lawyers, magistrates and doctors of science who defend themselves to make the recommendation a source of law, say where they found it? As a member of the old guard, I know that never a recommendation, a regulation, and even a Constitutional Court decision can be a source of law, but it can only be the basis for regulating some future relations in some new laws. So, if these recommendations were accepted, we would be in a situation if we weren't a country that could do it on its own, based on democratic principles, to regulate its electoral legislation. And in order not to take much time, JS MPs will vote in favour of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs under, normally, the condition, as Mr Colakovic said, to be accepted by these amendments, i.e. in particular the correction of the amendment to Article 15, as so would protect the interests of smaller parties, i.e. the parties that have fewer candidates on the electoral coalition lists and thus protect the electoral will of citizens. On the other hand, when we talk about the electoral will of citizens, I also spoke in principle, it is very difficult to animate people who are on the list for MPs, and they are in 150, 200, etc., when he knows in advance that there is no theoretical chance of being a national MP in the NSRS, regardless of what in his heart, his city and his municipality can win 50% of the votes, and one of the candidates on the electoral list, which is 5, 10, 15, in his municipality, can win 5% or 10% of the votes for his party, and what cares, he will be an MP because they have crossed the censorship. It is declassified to stick to the order on the list, as our people say – to stick like drunk to the plate. Nowhere in electoral rights and in some democratic principles of highly developed countries does it say that it must, that it is an obligation. I think it's just an attempt to push the mandates that would go to smaller parties in a certain way into another plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55617	The word is from Ambassador Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55618	What the predecessor used to say most often speaks of the complete confusion introduced by this law into Serbian electoral rules. In fact, when something is being done under pressure, under a terrible press release, to make someone nice, not because we've come up with some good solutions for our opportunities, then this is what we get. Watch out for all the incomparable things. We have an electoral law in which MPs are elected from one list, 250 names for all of Serbia. The list is closed to citizens, citizens cannot choose the MPs they want but in order that the parties give. When so, then it is logical to respect that order, that is the DSS' position. The fact that someone doesn't like it, the ones who don't like it publicly and have made it clear. What we're interested in is who agreed in the coalition agreements on the election list, that's the problem with the electoral list and the citizens who vote for the election list, please excuse me. Again, if we had a completely open system, no matter how hard we try to protect the less represented gender on those lists, so many citizens will be able to choose individual representatives from that list, and then it will happen that we do not have that other principle protected. It can easily happen that we have much below 30%, let alone one third of the members of the less represented gender in parliament. So, the reverse-turn drug is gone, and we are going into a rough debate and we are conflicting two or three principles because we have experienced and welcomed that someone from Brussels is making us change the electoral law because of our mutuals, communities and the need to embarrass our own parliament, not only in front of the citizens of Serbia, but also in front of the citizens of the European public and the European Commission sitting in Belgrade. For three years, we have been unable to reach a consensus on the implementation of the RS Constitution, Article 102. By making circuses out of this topic in the National Assembly, we have experienced persecution that we are changing these provisions not in this way, but in asking us to change the provisions of Article 102. The constitution, and then someone here smart found himself changing the law against the Constitution, along with the whole circus, following the folklore that goes along, starting with this wrong way of protecting the minority sex to this more scandalously related to how the list is realized and the order on the list. What the hell is wrong with him? The order on the list is something that is presented to the citizens. Here you are, citizens, vote, order on the list must be respected. You have coalition agreements for everyone who wants to go to coalitions, make in those coalition agreements the order you want it to be. Finally, when the order on the list is respected when the mandate is assigned to parliament, then put those representatives of the party that you think are more valuable than those less valuable on the list, so that the procedure is satisfied when the candidates are proposed. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55619	Mr. Martinovic, I have a proposal to determine now a break of one hour and you will be the first to take a break. Or do you want to talk now? I will set a break now for an hour, with the first word being received at 3 p.m. Mr. Master Alexander Martinovic. [[After break – 15:00]] Dear People's MPs, we begin our afternoon work with two notices. One announcement is the 30th session of the KIM Committee continues on May 31st, in King Milan's No. 14, in the Blue Salon at 14.00am, and secondly, that the 27th session of the Youth and Sports Committee called for Wednesday, May 25th at 11.00pm, will be held on Thursday, May 26th at 10:30 pm in the Library of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As we begin where we left off, the word per amendment is MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm sorry. According to Mrs. Verica Radeta's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55621	Mr. Novakovic, we expected you to be a little more serious about your adherence to article 27. We found this morning that the MPs had not received the opinion of the proposal's authorised representative on amendments that were not accepted and reasons for which they were not accepted. It is a business obligation to have such an opinion, but Mrs. Komic did not allow us to come to the point of saying it. Then you quietly continued to violate Mrs. Komic's Rules of Procedure, by accepting that Mrs. Nada Kolundžija's presence, who is the proposing representative, could replace that written report. Since there is no Mrs. Hope Kolundji at the moment, I don't know if you may have the authority to adopt any amendment or explain why you haven't adopted it. You know, what we're discussing today is of paramount importance and your relationship, of course, is talking about you, I mean the congregation majority, confirms what we're saying, you're not doing what you think you're supposed to do, you're blindly meeting EU requirements and you don't care what you're breaking until you reach that goal. The Rules of Procedure, however, are minor in relation to the fact that you, yourselves, are in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by this law of amending and supplementing the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliaments. In the name of the SRS parliamentary group, we ask you to provide at least Mrs. Nada Kolundji with a way to at least make it look like we're talking about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55622	There's no violation of article 27. We're going to pick up where we left off. I give the word to Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55623	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in well-organised democratic states when a change is made or when a new law is passed on the election of MPs, the consensus of all relevant political parties is preceded. At this point, it is obvious that in the Republic of Serbia not that there is no consensus of all or at least most relevant political parties, but there is no consensus on this issue within the ruling coalition itself in the National Assembly. That it is thus a witness to the fact that amendments to the Amendments to the Amendments Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of MPs were submitted by the same MPs who previously signed the Amendments and Supplements Act on the selection of Members of Parliaments. That's how they actually disaved themselves. What the SRS can determine when it comes to Mr. Petar Petrovic's amendment is: if the amendment is accepted, then in the Republic of Serbia we will have a double system, two different systems of mandate assignment. In the first system when the applicant of the election list is one political party, then mandates will be allocated unconditionally in order of candidates on the list, it is one system. The second system will apply to those voters who have submitted an election list composed of representatives of several political parties. They will be subject to a second system, if the mandate of the MP ceases, then the mandate is not assigned first to the next one but to the same political party whose MP has previously ceased. The question arises: are we thus creating a system of mandate assignment or are we breaking it? Does this mean that the political parties who are self-participating in the elections and who independently submit electoral lists are in a different and unfavourable position than the coalition electoral lists, that is, those so-called applicants. coalition election lists? And the real question for the entire ruling coalition in the National Assembly: what system of mandate allocation does it want? Whether the mandates are granted unconditionally in the order of candidates on the list or whether they depend on who the applicant is. The SRS believes that if the principle applies to one political party, then it must apply to all others, regardless of whether they go out on their own in the elections or in the coalition. This is how you create two parallel systems of mandate assignment, depending on whether the party appears as an independent applicant of the electoral list or submits the electoral list in a coalition with some other political parties. As soon as you have two different archivals, that means that in fact we in the Republic of Serbia will not have a single mandate-sharing system, but one system will apply to a political party that participates independently in the elections and another system for political parties that go to the coalition elections. That's not good, you don't have one in a well-organized state. It's really scandalous. I don't know if there's an example of a country that holds to its credibility as far as legislation is concerned, regardless of what matter it is, and especially when it comes to this extremely important political matter, which is the choice of MPs, that the laws are passed not to agree with the Constitution, but to the opinion of some experts from some Venice Commission. Excuse me, it's a drastic step and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also its political dignity. Why would anyone in the Republic of Serbia be bound by anyone's opinion? And in our current legislation, let's say in the General Administrative Procedure Act, it says nicely that opinion is not binding. You're bound to get it, but you don't have to do it. Here, when it comes to the adoption of a new law, i.e. amending the Law on the Selection of MPs, it turns out that we are bound by the opinion of experts, self-proclaimed or actual experts, from the Venice Commission. Excuse me, how is it possible that this same Venice Commission didn't, say, transfer to Portugal, why doesn't it change its electoral legislation, when there's also an institute of blank resignations? How is it possible that this same Venice Commission has not referred words of rebuke to the Great Britain, which has so-called. Government whips, which control the ruling party's MPs and those four government whips are even members of the British government? How is it possible that one system applies to the so-called so-called system? old democracies, and that some other system applies to countries that have recently entered the EU or which allegedly predicate to enter the EU in 10, 20, 50 or 100 years, now in these weather and chronological calculations do I not want to enter? So it's just enough to look at the faces of the MPs of the ruling coalition sitting in the hall. I believe they too have a stomachache from these solutions. No one here is thrilled with the law they're going to vote for. Everyone here is justifying that they didn't participate in writing the law, how they're going to vote, but here, for some greater interest, they're going to try to find some valid reason, etc. No one here defends a law they'll vote for tomorrow. Excuse me, what kind of law is that? What's his quality? How long will this law last? Will it really lead to the political system in Serbia being more stable and working better than it is now? Well, he won't. I have not heard here today any MP from the DS, from the G17 plus, from the SPS, who have courageously and firefully defended the solutions set out in this bill. This is where people sit their heads down, walk around, come out of the O.R. It's just that no one is satisfied with this law. This law is passed because someone in Brussels said he had to be like this and not so different. It is scandalous that in the Republic of Serbia laws are passed because the Venice Commission thinks so, that the Constitutional Court is making decisions because the Venice Commission orders or does not like a member in some law in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. In the Republic of Serbia alone, you have the case that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are a source of law, that the recommendations and opinions of some expert commission of the Council of Europe are the source of rights. I don't know if that's the case in Burkina Faso, Sierra Leone, who knows where, but unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia, it is the case. So this is a bad law, and in the SRS' view it should not be adopted, and if adopted, it will not contribute to stabilising political opportunities in Serbia, it will be the generator of an unprecedented political crisis in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55624	Mr. Martinovic, from the time of the parliamentary group? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Yes. Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Mr. Shehovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55625	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 of the proposed law. It refers to the allocation of mandates based on the RIK decision in order on the election list, starting from the first. The amendment I have proposed provides for the right of the applicant of the electoral list to determine on his own up to 15% of the number of mandates received from the electoral list and which will be allocated according to the rounding rule to the integer, because if the number of mandates awarded from the subsequent 15% is not the whole number, it is assigned according to the rounding rule to the integer. The second point of view of my proposed amendment concerns that the applicant of the electoral list has within five days of the date of publication of the final results to deliver the names of the parliamentary candidates of these 15%. I believe that this proportion of these 15% of the mandates won is not very large and that it will not significantly disrupt the order of mandates received from the electoral list, given the proportional electoral system, i.e. that the Republic of Serbia is one electoral unit. The adoption of this amendment will bring about a range of benefits for all actors of the electoral process, as well as for members of national minorities, stakeholders and other coalition partners. Take, for example. that one relevant political party, which has members of national minorities on its electoral list, and according to its assessment, the applicant of the electoral list determines the order and does not comply with the election results, in such a case the applicant of the electoral list may compensate for the order in the given mandates by, for example, making it possible to compensate. respect or take into account election results in certain municipalities or districts. On the other hand, by accepting this amendment, all contractual relations between coalition partners that can jointly form a single electoral list can be resolved in a simpler and more efficient manner. It is also important that the adoption of this amendment can provide one of the basic characteristics of parliament, which is an adequate representation of parliament, as it may happen that no election list has given it a parliamentary mandate, for example. from several municipalities that are in the neighbourhood, because no applicant of the electoral list has had a good assessment and is not a candidate from that municipality, was found in the order to provide him with the mandate. On the other hand, I think that the adoption of this amendment would ensure that voters are motivated to go out in as large a number as possible and thus the new parliament would have greater legitimacy and would better reflect the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, both in total, relatively many votes won, both in terms of election results.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55626	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, only if you would be so kind as to tell me how much time left for the SRS parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55628	Eighteen minutes, plus 11 and 40. So 18 MPs' groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55629	Thank you very much. What is the problem with Article 13 relating to Article 84 of the basic law is that the ruling coalition has practically won, to its insistence, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which has estimated that it is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the mandates are assigned by the criteria set by the applicant of the electoral list, but that the mandates must be assigned in accordance with the order of candidates on the list. Now a previous question is being asked here - what is the Constitutional Court's task? The Constitutional Court's task is to appreciate whether any law is in accordance with the Constitution. Does our Constitution say how the winning mandates are assigned? It does not say, but has left the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to the legislator to settle the issue himself, and the legislator has arranged it in such a way that the mandates are granted by determining who will receive the already won parliamentary mandate. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has estimated, for daily-political reasons, that such a method of granting the winning mandates is allegedly not in line with the Constitution. The only thing he didn't explain to us was what member of the Constitution said that mandates are assigned in order of candidates on the list. The method of granting the term of office was invented by the Constitutional Court. Why? So that the DS could say – we are not changing the law because we have been ordered by Brussels, but, behold, the Constitutional Court has so assessed, so that we agree with the Constitutional Court's decision, although such practice does not exist in any democratic and well-organised rule of law, except in the Republic of Serbia which, of course, is not an example of such a state. Now the question arises – what does a citizen get as a voter, such a system of mandate allocation? These days you could hear literally on every TV programme, wherever this law is talked about the same attitude -- don't make party headquarters accidentally affect who gets the parliamentary mandate. Now I ask you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, tell me which body, which body, which body, which set out the order of candidates on the election list? Well, that does it again, as you say, party headquarters. Now the question is asked, so what do the citizens receive? Can citizens influence the order of candidates on the list? I can't. Does anyone ask them if Aleksandar Martinovic will be fifth, 50th or 250th on the election list? No, that's again being decided by some political party. The question arises why are we even changing the Law on selecting Members of the People? What crucial thing will be provided for citizens of the Republic of Serbia when the mandates are assigned in order of candidates on the list? Nothing will be won, except that within the political parties themselves will be significantly reduced competition to win the mandate. He who is 250th in some political party can count on him to never be a MP, and in the current system he could count on. The SRS took care of it. Here, in the light of the bill, you have one scandalous sentence, that political parties have arbitraryly determined who will be the MP. Maybe it was DS, maybe it was G17, and the SRS didn't arbitraryly determine who would represent it in parliament. We also made sure that there was an adequate number of members of the gentler sex here and that MPs from various parts of Serbia, and from Vojvodina, and from Belgrade, and from Western Serbia, and from eastern Serbia, and that they were members of national minorities, and that everything we took care of was not arbitrary and it was not true that it was undemocraticly decided on who would get the mandate. The SRS was decided by the Central Country Administration after a public debate. Everyone could have said -- I think this one should get a mandate, I don't think this one should get a mandate, and then it was voted and decided no central and no small set of people, and it wasn't a closed-door decision, but one body of 101 members decided who would be the MP. I don't see what the problem is. It turns out that the political parties in the Republic of Serbia are some secret associations, minority paramilitary organisations, Masonic lodges, and now they need to get that right to determine who will be the MP. We are all representatives of political parties registered with the Ministry of State and local self-government, who delivered their statutes to that ministry. These statutes are consistent with the Constitution and with the positive regulations and I don't see what the problem is. People here are afraid of political parties. Here citizens are given one false promise that their lives will be better and that their children's lives will be better now that the mandates are assigned in order of candidates on the lists. I'm sorry, it won't get any better. To change the life of citizens in Serbia first, the government must stop stealing, deceive, do all the malfeasance it is now making, and then improve the lives of citizens in Serbia. When it is done, then it will be completely no matter what system the mandate is. In one poor country, in a country where you have such a social crisis, there are no essential conditions for a stable political democracy. In 1961, famous American political theorists Samuel Lipset wrote the work "Political Man", and then he said well – in a country which, in 1961, had a gross national income of less than $500, there are no conditions for democracy. There is no democracy in poor society. That's what you gentlemen need to work on, to reduce poverty, to make Serbia an economically prosperous state. Only in such a social environment can you have a stable democratic system. In a country where corruption rules, where you can see a large number of young girls who are forced to deal with prostitution, and here you have a mouthful of women's rights, there are no elementary conditions for democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55630	The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several amendments have been filed by the SRS on Article 13 and practically all aim to show how pointless these changes are, against the constitutional changes you make, and I can say freely that they are also anti-democratic to you. For 11 years since that bulldozer revolution, the famous five-octobar revolution, you are slowly but surely breaking Parliament's reputation and only the state in which the National Assembly is today and this debate, the relationship of MPs, the number of MPs in the hall, speaks of what level you have brought down the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If someone had told you three or four years ago that it was possible that there would be a Law on selecting MPs as one of the most important system laws in the country and that this debate would take place in this state in parliament, I don't think any of you would have believed that. Your goal is to bring this law further down and further strengthen the influence of political parties, although you are now saying that, my God, this is how you are going to relocate that influence. You said political party representatives were able to choose on an arbitrary basis which candidates from the electoral lists would become MPs. Gentlemen, did you choose that in your ruling parties in an arbitrary manner? Did you put the candidates' names in the drum, so you pulled out who would be an MP after the election? I don't think any of the parties have done that. No one does it the arbitrary way. Who's to say what's arbitrary? So, everyone worked on the basis of success in the elections, and this way you will, as you say, in determining who will be an MP just move to the pre-election period and thus prevent any result, the number of votes that each candidate gets, from having an impact on what happens after the election. This amendment, which I have submitted to the deadline of 10 days for granting a term of office after the election in a row, you say, has been reduced to seven days. I would ask Mrs. Kolundji, as a representative of the motion, to finally get involved in this debate. I also asked you in principle if after the election, when the official results are announced, when RIK does and when it is known that this party has 20 mandates, this 30 mandate, and this 50 mandate, will you ask those candidates, who should be given a mandate, to make a statement about acceptance of the candidacy? Let's at least hear it for the record. I know that you are inclined to say that tomorrow, if you need something different, that you will come up again with some analysts, like those you have forced in the previous months and will say Slobodan Vučetić, an intellectual gromada – I think that is so, so you will get out of Goati's naphthaline, so you will be Vojin Dimitrijevic and who knows who else, perhaps Dragoljub Micunovic, so they will give their opinion on what the National Assembly meant at that moment. Please make your statement at least for the sake of the minutes – whether it will be necessary to collect statements of acceptance of the candidacy. Otherwise, the RIK decision, not that it doesn't take her ten days, not that it doesn't take her seven days, is enough 24 hours. If you know how many lists have won the mandate and if the mandates are assigned in a orderly manner, then it is practically a technical issue. Then RIK's decision has a declarative character, not a constitutive character. Either you essentially abolish another of the rights of MPs, or a statement of will, as you have said, and the MP must be defined as many times as possible, so that statement of will and freedom of will is important when resigning, but when you assign a mandate, then it won't matter anymore. Will this be practically a forced mandate? Will you and how will you react, how will your majority in RIK react? The Republic Election Commission is that it does not think Serbian citizens are an autonomous body, that some experts are sitting there, it is also, as is the Republic Assembly, a simple voting machine. There are people who are responsible for their headquarters and who are willing to vote and raise their hands for anything that is given to them from the DS headquarters or any other order. So how will you react if someone delivers within those seven days a statement saying – I do not want a mandate? Will you move on to the next one on the list, and will you consider it at all, or will you say, "You don't ask yourself anything, you don't need your statement, so you will assign it in order?" It's for nothing for you to call upon the position of the Constitutional Court, of the OSCE, of the Venice Commission. What's the biggest problem is that, as far as I'm concerned, you don't really know what you really want with this law, but you want to do as much confusion as possible, and then after the election, in line with what is the current interest of the DS, to say so – we thought it or thought it. You've thought about it and you're trying to dissuade this debate. You're being lectured again and you're having your ears closed about morality, the mandates of those who have absolutely no right to do so. Our people have said a long time ago, who, when a soldier is brief, these who sit here, I will not even mention, of honesty. So let's hear a concrete answer. How long are you ready to go into legalizing political prostitution? If citizens do not forget, this law is passed to legalise the theft of mandates from the SRS parliamentary group. (President: I would ask you to compare the dictionary, so that we do not come back to the situation to be burned. Please, Mr. Sarovic. Thank you. Go ahead. You, as one man has said, only you, sir, do your job. So this is political prostitution and it's my political assessment and I have a right to do it. I didn't say a single word. You have absolutely no reason to warn me. The only thing that can bother you is the truth. If anyone here is offended, let them say that he recognized himself as a political prostitute, so let him report nicely to the Rules of Procedure. So that question has already been regulated by the Rules of Procedure and please, Mr. Novakovic, do not interfere. (President: Don't argue with me. I very well-intentioned and generously warn you of the use of human normal terms. Thank you. Sir, since you took away 10,000 dinars from me noblely last time you warned me against business and illegally, I'm going to finish my presentation, but the truth can't stop anything. Do not think that Serbian citizens will not recognise this political prostitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55632	I apologize, before we move on to this point, allow me to welcome Mr. Milorad Gasic, secretary of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Mrs. Milo Radisavljevic, deputy secretary of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who is being escorted from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly today. Welcome. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Radeta, so Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55633	Ladies and gentlemen, what today is about amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, I am primarily thinking about the content of these amendments and then the way the representatives of the regime work today is more than scandalous. Until yesterday, we listened to representatives of these 108 MPs who submitted this request, that they would not accept amendment to the LSV, so that they would not accept amendment to the PUPS. When there was confusion today over whether or not one parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law, then you have forested there in plain sight all of us and now, one amendment at a time, you announce that you will accept. When you create that refined text, this will be completely unusable and completely something that doesn't look like the law. You will have one criterion for women, one for national minorities, one criteria for coalitions. Now I don't know, you might find someone to look for a special criterion for peasants, students, pensioners, disabled people, etc. So, you made a papaziania at the very beginning. Only with such and adopted amendments as you have announced, can anyone manage to apply this, I take off my hat. The essence of the amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs is what you accepted unconditionally, which is the EU's order. That is what we have been telling you from the very beginning and by fulfilling the EU's orders you will completely destroy parliamentary democracy in Serbia. You'll completely dissipate the elections in the Republic of Serbia. Article 14, whose SRS erasure we are looking for, you have predicted in which way an MP may, as you have said, personally or through the power of attorney or by mail, through any only through the authorised representative of the party to submit his resignation, and certified it, only for the longest three days before he endures it. This is something that is absolutely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You, gentlemen, under Article 102, had an obligation to regulate position 2 legally. The constitution that says - the MP is free to put his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal was elected as a MP, under certain conditions. And it was an obligation to pass the law, to determine how the MP would irrevocably make his mandate available to the political party from whose list he was elected. You did not do this, but you suspended Article 102(2) of the Law in these amendments. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we're telling you that what you're doing is completely unconstitutional. I have asked and asked several times the public representatives of the Constitutional Court, we will see how they will react when they receive a constitutional appeal, let's say mine, where I will insist that the Constitutional Court protect my constitutional right, because I insist that I be protected by constitutional law on the basis of which I place my mandate at the disposal of my SRS. How can someone forbid me? How can someone suspend my constitutional right? What you're doing is just amazing. Of course, management was my colleagues from the SRS, you in this way, by passing this law, legalize political corruption. That, you'll allow, is one of the most dangerous types of corruption that can occur in a country. After this law, it will no longer matter who wins how many seats, who gets how many votes in the elections, but who has how much money to buy an MP. We'll have different congregation majoritys from case to case, from agenda to agenda. You know, if these are so-called. the progressors sold and if you have allowed them to legalise the kidnapping of the SRS mandate, then each of them individually or all together are ready to be sold and voted perhaps for this law and for some others, etc. So what you're doing is the basic problem and the essence of this whole story. You violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and introduce tycoons, introduce oligarchs, introduce controversial businessmen, etc., all those who have a lot of money, introduce them to parliament by buying MPs and thus determining which and what laws will be passed in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55634	The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55635	When citizens vote for political parties in the election, they vote for their programmes. I guess that's not a question. In our election legislation, citizens vote for lists of political parties that have 250 names in one place. It's really one forest of people, one forest of names that appears there, and unfortunately that's the system we have. Individual presentation of the program, individual presentation of ideas is not what is the priority of our system. That's what we got. The moment the political parties get their seats based on the percentage of votes they win, based on their strength in the elections, they want to present those citizens who voted for the party in parliament and those representatives of the political party are obliged to respect the programme. In the Constitution of one of the oldest EU member states, Portugal, it states in Article 161 that the MP is obliged to respect those ideas and that programme of those political parties whose programme was being advocated during the election campaign, and if it does not do so, switching to another political party, the term of office of the Constitution will cease by force. That means new standards of so-called. The non-partisan democratic state, which is trying to impose a new EU political thought on new EU members as a new neoliberal concept, is simply nonsense. It's ideological nonsense equal to the one we suffered in times of communism and socialism, when we were told by great thinkers and writers about how our lives should be arranged, and practical politicians decided faster and better to translate it into legal forms. It's an impossible situation. Do we have to agree to it? My point is, we don't have to. We don't have to at every moment we get to answer by jerking off the body and making stupid, stupid figures. So we don't have to do that. We really don't have to do this. We have an obligation to talk to that organisation that we want to join, if it is the EU, about the problem and get things straight to the end. Our system is such that we must protect the citizen above all, because it belongs to the mandate, not to the political party, not to the MP himself. That's what you can't see here. Instead of talking about how to solve the problem, we are doing an amazing miracle, we are getting the position of the Venice Commission based on our nonsense that we have been doing in Parliament for three years, which is why we have alerted the entire European public about the problem of trading mandates and the issue of blank resignations in the Serbian parliament, so when we have woken them up and alarmed them as we have only been uniquely, then we get the position of the Venice Commission that we are not good at the provision of Article 102. The Constitution. That's their opinion, because they're here to help. We, then, respecting the pressure of Brussels, instead of discussing whether it is possible, on the basis of which the political consensus changes the rules of Article 102. The Constitution, then you better do what the Venice Commission does to you, I swear to you and to the citizens, let them look on the Internet at that position of the Venice Commission, that's at the very end of that opinion, the Venice Commission asked us not to. They didn't ask us to break our own constitution, but even the opposite of these blank resignations they said – don't change anything in the electoral law, don't touch it. If you wish to take the advice of the Venice Commission, change Article 102. The constitution, that's what they're proposing, and don't touch the election law. Namely, do not implement Article 102. The constitution over the amendment of the electoral law. What are you doing? You quickly and better caught up, so you amended the electoral law by opposing Article 102. The Constitution, acting very cleverly, by trying to prevent the application of Article 102 by law. The Constitution. That's not possible. There is no constitutional court decision in Serbia that allows you to do so, nor is it possible to interpret it, nor has the Venice Commission ever asked you to violate your own constitution. That's the main story here, the main theme. No one asked us to, and we should even stand up to it in a valid way because we have good arguments. Your good arguments of the state, which should stand on its feet only, politically to develop its institutions, are not of interest. So much for now. Later, if I have time to report for this scandal in article 15 and this amendment to Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55636	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55637	New Serbia's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 14 concerning Article 88. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. By supporting everything that has been said so far as criticises this law, which in no way tried to make even more inadmissible changes, that we have done something called – we have tried to be greater Catholics than the Pope, which in life is impossible. Or, we tried to be bigger Europeans than all those who already are. Our task here in parliament is not to protect our chair, not to protect ourselves, but to protect the citizens' voice above all, because thanks to the citizens' voices 250 sits here. Thanks to the electoral will of the voters, the allocation and redistribution of the mandate is what it is. We know how citizens in Serbia define themselves. We know that it is impossible to make elections without political parties, and then those political parties, which still have some credit behind them, some work, some programs that motivate citizens, can't guarantee these citizens that people who come across the electoral lists, standing by the same programs, will be consistent to the end, but they now have some other will. These are the non-sensions that crash in this case in this proposal that we have ahead of us. There's also a blank resignation, which is interpreted by this 14th member. We have suggested that in this position 2. says - the MP resigns to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, certified in accordance with a law governing the certification of signatures, either personally or through the power of attorney (that power can be a party, it will be a space for what we want to avoid, we must keep an eye on it, or by mail recommended), within three days of the day over, etc. So, we've proposed an amendment that this part of "or mail recommended" should be left out, when we already have this position of a member that we have, because by mail recommended, we know, we can resign everyone and can do something ugly again, something sad, something that will draw attention to this home that is an institution that needs to be at the top of this country and guarantee its statehood, so something that we don't want. So anything used, when it comes to human beings, can be misused. People everywhere are prone to it. The laws exist to protect everyone from any possible abuse. The laws should be above everyone and guarantee it. We believe that our amendment has been completely exceeded, although I believe that the other amendments that are being made here today are also fully acceptable, and that there may have just been a solution for us and the EU talking about not breaking our own constitution, rather than offering them the opposite solution, that we will violate our own constitution, our own laws, and introduce something that will most severely punish Serbia's voters right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55638	National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Mr. Krasic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55639	Mr. Novakovic, how much time do we have for this? Just a minute and ten, wow. Article 13 and Article 14 make up one whole and now judge for yourself when you're going to arrest those who signed this initiative to change this law. We have an obligation to bring the law into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I read - the MP is free to, under certain conditions, unrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of the political party on whose proposal he was elected MP. So, if the Constitution stipulates that on a proposal from the political party one person has been elected as a member of the People's Parliament, then the proposal referred to in the Constitution cannot possibly be an electoral list as a technical means or a order of candidates on the confirmed electoral list of the political party. The election list contains candidates for MPs, which will be a member of parliament within the number of mandates won can only designate a political party as a proposing. Article 102(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if you can't read, come and I'll explain how it is read. In the current law, the resignation is one of the options for stopping the term of office before the time. However, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 102(2) exercises this institution's mandate to the political party, and I asked for this amendment next. Just to be clear, the MP irrevocably places a mandate on the part of the political party on whose proposal he has been elected as MP by writing a statement, on the date of confirmation of the MP's mandate, informs the National Assembly president that he has also signed his signature with the competent authority and has authorised the political party to submit his resignation to the National Assembly President, in accordance with Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is where the word "restraint" comes in just a technical means. Article 88 is replaced by the following: The law on selecting MPs and the resignation here is two different things. We are working on a completely new institute under orders from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 102(2). So, three conditions are clearly recognised: a written statement, that it informs the President of the National Assembly to use this institute to make the mandate available, the second condition of resignation as a technical means and the third free will of the MP to do so. Why is this necessary? If this amendment is not adopted, in addition to legalizing the white ship, Sojic and Circa, you will allow Karic, Miskovic, Beku, Saric, Peconia, Pacolija, and who knows what kind of fucks to buy 126, to change and make their own government. This is the most important thing in this session of the Republic Assembly. You are criminalizing a political scene because you are obliged to amnesty and legalize something that has already been done. Here to begin with is a summary of all the crimes that happened with the purchases and the kidnapping of mandates. What deal did you get into, that's your problem. Just so you know one thing, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia -- "TT" cannot do without each other, Tadic cannot without Tom. It's symbiosis, let the third show up, disappear both of them. Those from the West want to control both the government and the opposition, give room for the third current to appear, both go into distant history. And in this way you only support fear and promote fear with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55640	The word has an MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment we're talking about right now concerns the blank resignations. Blanko's resignations were established and emerged as a solution in a period of time and if we hadn't introduced a blank resignation then, we would have legalized trade with mandates and the most obvious political corruption. All those who sit in this House, who were MPs in 2005, while in that other building, know what I'm talking about, I'm talking about just that we did something to prevent Bogoljub Karic and a couple of other tycoons who literally, in those halls, were wandering around with huge bags of money and were most literally buying MPs. What changed from that moment to today except that we became a much poorer society in which human values are even less valued and in which it became most normal that everything could be bought and anything could be sold? In these circumstances, as well as in circumstances where parliamentary democracy has not matured in Serbia, when the rules of parliamentary life and the rules of this home have not yet been established, we are abolishing the blank resignations and then calling on the same people, who did what they did in 2005, to come back here to us again and to threaten parliamentary life most literally in Serbia. Is that something we're up for today and is that something we need right now? Of course not, but we need even less what you do today, satisfying the European Commission by doing much more than what it asks of you. You are violating your own constitution by giving advance to one law that in a completely different way regulates matter than the one that the Constitution itself has prescribed. Now what are we doing with the solution proposed in the bill? With this solution as a party, as the most important factors of political life in one country, we fully release responsibility for the development of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Such a solution allows for a completely uninterrupted change and change of party and political membership of MPs and, in fact, allows political corruption and trade in mandates. Therefore, this solution that has been proposed is not good, and I believe and I am simply convinced that at the most recent time you will see for yourself what results it will produce.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55642	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the fundamental weakness of this bill is that it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and it is truly incomprehensible to proposers rather than to make sure that the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliaments comply with the Constitution, above all with Article 102, they did their best to make the law compatible with some opinion of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe. Here is an elementary question: is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia valid or not? If not, it means that it is not valid at all in any situation, and if so, it applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to all political parties. In 2006, I simply have to remind the citizens, as the ruling coalition's MPs seem to have forgotten it, and in 2006, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia did not fall from the sky and was not cut off from anyone. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought by consensus of all relevant political parties and the SRS, and DSS, and the DSS, and the SPS-JS, and all other political parties. And all political parties have agreed that Serbia's Constitution is as it is now, including Article 102. Meanwhile, some political parties, i.e. some politicians turned the turkey upside down, so they realized that Serbia's constitution seems not good, but then they do not have the political courage to change the constitution, but the Serbian Constitution suspends, or abolish certain provisions of its laws, by general legal acts that are lower than the constitution. Also, I must remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia – the man who represented the most and most heartily defended the formulation of Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia was just Tomislav Nikolic. He spoke publicly, about it you have stenographic notes, statements in the media, from a press conference, you have an oath in the church, as Mr Nemanja Sarovic says – unless the formulation of Article 102 enters the Constitution of Serbia. The SRS won't vote for that. And there would be no Constitution of the Republic of Serbia if the SRS hadn't supported it because many of the political parties who spoke to the Constitution were practically boycotting a referendum held at the end of October 2006. Two years later, the man who attacked most, who in practice violated Article 102. The constitution and which indeed dealt, according to Nemanja Sarovic, political prostitution, he introduced that practice to Article 102. The constitution doesn't apply. What you gentlemen of the DS are doing right now, this is hidden retroactivity. You're later trying to legalize the theft of a mandate. In 2008, the theft of the mandate took place, you in 2011 passed a law suspending the rights of Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to place their mandates at the disposal of political parties who have also proposed them as candidates for MPs. You're doing it primarily from low-level initiatives to legalize theft, because that's when the theft happened in 2008. From the point of view of the SRS, it's equally socially dangerous to steal mandates, steal people's money, kidnap women's purses at the market, gold eschew etc., it's all theft. You are now a kind of theft, a political theft, trying to legalize by suspending Article 102. The RS Constitution. One elemental question arises, what will happen tomorrow when citizens vote for Aleksandar Martinovic, as an SRS candidate, and he enters parliament as an SRS candidate, as its MP, and then he says, even now I give up the SRS programming definitions, now I am for the EU, now I am for the handover of Ratko Mladic, now for himself to remain the Statute of Vojvodina, now I am for accepting the political reality of KIM. Who's being played here? Well, citizens. Who do the citizens vote for in the election? That's what you DS don't understand or you don't want to understand. Citizens do not opt for individuals, in a system where you have a proportional electoral system and Serbia as one electoral unit, so a citizen by definition is not defined as an individual, is defined as a political party, which went to the polls with its political programme. Citizens opt for certain policies, and we here, are the first-name MPs who do not represent themselves, their parents, their neighborhood, their own children, grandparents, but we represent certain policies, a certain view of the world. And morale obliges us, and the Constitution obliges us, but you're trying to throw it under your feet, to represent the same policy as when I entered parliament, otherwise the falsified election will of citizens, otherwise the citizens are deceived. I was sent to parliament convinced that I would represent one policy, and when I was given a mandate, I now represent another policy. As possible in 2008, a man dies in Belgrade because he opposes the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, and two years later, a dead man says, "I am delivering Ratko Mladic." And now such a man, apparently, should care about the interests of my children, your children, to provide them with a smile on their faces, to provide them with jobs, a man who lives in human life means nothing and you legalize it all. Now you're banalizing it all, no matter what it says in the Constitution, we've been told by the Venice Commission, we've been told by the Constitutional Court, who by yesterday were lawyers in farming cooperatives, and now they've been advocating judges of the Constitutional Court and it doesn't matter. Now the question is, who will truly appreciate you in this EU? You have had to do at least two things by law on the selection of MPs, to prescribe conditions under which the MP is free to make his mandate available to the political party, and that was your obligation under the Constitution, that is not your subjective right, that is your obligation. The second thing, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs required you to prescribe how an election campaign is being conducted. I'm very interested in what the Venice Commission thinks about what DS, what the SNS in the vote gets by giving money, mobile phones, Chinese shoes, flour, sugar, oil, pasta, fishing sticks, glasses, I don't know if I've forgotten any food or any other trade item. Where does that make votes in the EU? In France, Great Britain, Germany, Italy, Spain, where? Nowhere but Serbia, and now you don't mind it, and it bothers you that MPs are free to make their mandate available to their political parties. So why don't you put an end to this devastating practice of abuse, of humiliating Serbian citizens in that way. You had an example in Odjaks, I saw it with my own eyes, that you were Roma, and that's what those traitors who left the SRS did, you'll get a package that has about five kilos of live supplies, by giving you a cell phone, you get into the voting booth, and you have to use your cell phone to record who you voted for, and only when you show me the photo gets that package. Tell me where it is, what the Venice Commission says, so it's impossible that they don't know it's a practice in Serbia. There's no local choice since 2008 where you haven't done it. You are racing whether the DS or the Serbian back party will corrupt voters more. The worst possible form of corruption is when you corrupt a man who doesn't have a job and has nothing to eat, who can't get a child's education, by blackmailing him to vote for you, to give him 50 euros, cell phone, shoes, fishing stick, etc. In Arangelovac, Mrs. Kolundjia, you shared fishing sticks and I've never heard that any English politician does that, German, French, Danish, it doesn't matter at all. That's what you do, and you say you're a front for the EU. Furthermore, as far as I know, a standard in any area can be a norm. The standard can't be an opinion, I think, so it's a standard now. I'm sorry, it's not like that. The standard has to be the norm. Is there a uniform legislation in the EU regarding the election of MPs? No, it's the right that every country has for itself, retains for itself as its exclusive right, so somewhere you have a uniform majority system, like in Great Britain, somewhere you have a proportional system, a mixed system, etc. At EU level, the so-called The Aki communitre does not contain norms on the selection of MPs. This is what every state has reserved for itself and I ask you with what right, in which member of the Constitution states that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to bring its legislation into line with the opinion of someone from the Venice Commission, who is disturbed by Article 102. The constitution does not mind when you give 50 euros to voters to vote for you, who are allegedly for the EU. It is the highlight of hypocrisy, the peak of the beating of the elementary dignity of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia, men, women, Serbs, and Hungarians, and Roma and all others, and you do it. You talk one way, and the other you act the other way. You, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, coordinate your statements with your practical behaviour and then all the problems in Serbia will be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55644	The word is Milos Aligrudić, so Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55645	It is logical that this amendment should be accepted to delete Article 15, because what you wrote in Article 15, by adopting Amendment Branko Ruzic, by accepting the amendment of Branko Ruzic to Article 15 of this Law, which, as regards Article 92, is scandalous, what has been done. What did you do? Namely, when the term of office of one of the MPs ceases, on any basis, Article 92 regulates what happens then, who replaces that MP to whom the term of office has ceased. He should be replaced, under the current law, until you vote on this, by the candidate for MPs on the political party list whose mandate has ceased and for whom the mandate has not yet been granted. That means someone on the list. If it is an DS member, or a DS Salisto candidate, someone from the DS should replace the MP whose mandate has ceased. That's what it's written so far. The improvement of the text, in line with the DSS position, and of course our party statute, which we openly advocate, is to be the first to be the next on the list. The problem that arises, related to the protection of the minority sex, was resolved by the original bill, as the proposer submitted, as it was said to replace a minority gender representative who had ceased his term as the first candidate of the same half from the list. We against such a solution, as you suggested, had nothing. In the opening statement, which I had as the head of the group, I did not say against it, and then, as from the clear sky, came the brilliant proposal by Branko Ruzic, to erase this position on the protection of the minority sex, through the amendment that was accepted here, and instead of protecting the minority sex, the members of the government who had ceased the mandate of the MP because they were elected to office in the government. So then they stopped their mandate in the government, for whatever reason, and then it's said here that this former government member will be returned to his term, under some three conditions that are cumulatively cited here -- that he wants it, that he has addressed the election commission, that he has ceased his post as a member of the government and that there is a vacant place for him at that moment. Wait, guys, is this normal? Are you out of your mind? So, you suspended the right of minority sex, which you once established by your proposal, in this way, in the most harshest possible way, by the proposal of the head of the parliamentary group of pauses that no single woman in her parliamentary club has. How can you not be ashamed? In doing so, this proposal also violates the Constitution in the way I have spoken and in which the representatives of the SRS have said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55646	The president is a less represented sex here from that party. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55647	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of some discussions here, when it came to this way of electing MPs, there were several very unargued criticisms at the expense of the DS. You know, it's not the DS's fault that no one can cross the census in Vranjska Banja and some other Serbian places and then has to find an excuse, nor is it anyone's fault that the worst possible people, American spies, English satranda run for president of Serbia, so when they lose, only then does the Serbian public find out what kind of candidates some political parties are running for presidential elections. Now tell us right now, as we pass this bill, who will you run for next election? What kind of monster is waiting for us in the next election and who are you planning in the next election to run for office? Because only when they lose the election, only when they leave them, when they escape from a sinking ship, do we find out what opportunities they have had to sit at the head of Serbia, who has all had the chance, who has all been given the opportunity to manage and rule this country. So, it's not DS's fault, it's not even the law, it's your fault that this is happening to you. Next time take care of whoever you run for office, take care of who you take in your ranks, take care of what you want and what you want. For those who don't understand my discussion, if you can't change Serbia already, try to change the people, it might be easier, but I don't think it's possible to change the people. You must accept the electoral will of the citizens of this country, because the electoral will of the citizens of this country is being looked at in the elections, and the mirror of the elections is the state of parliament, which we have here right now. So I ask you to take more care of yourself and accept the light burden of self-judgment without accepting the heavy burden of condemning others.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55648	Mr. Milos Aligrudic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55649	Mr. Chairman, I think you are in violation of Rule 27 and those provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of the way in which the session is managed. So, please, Mr. Novakovic, the most beautiful debate in the details that are being held, which you are chairing at the moment, is aimed at discussing those provisions of the law and of the amendments which have been submitted to these provisions of the laws that have its concrete content. Most of the debaters stuck to it. Please, only the heads of the group or the authorised representatives, because of the nature of the Rules of Procedure and the manner of discussion, can possibly go to these discussions in some general place and let them generalize the arguments. Indeed, I cannot understand that you, without talking or saying, are allowing a discussion to run that has some broad political message, some exercising political opponent by some basis of the type of candidacy in the elections, the non-candidate, who is similar, who is not similar, etc. Otherwise, we have a full head and a heavy burden on us with these stupid provisions that we've got to discuss, we're still missing some general political discussions. That really doesn't make sense on your part.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55650	I have listened very carefully to all MPs, and in addition to interventions regarding the use of certain, in my opinion, inappropriate expressions, I have never seen any particular wandering or wandering before. It is obvious that MP Milivojevic expressed his view that Article 15 should not be deleted. That's how I realized that exposure. Therefore, there is no breach of Article 27. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Please state in the voting day. ) If you are not satisfied, of course, the Assembly will declare in the voting day whether I hurt Article 27, according to your advertising. The word has first Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a high-rise in the southwest part of Mount Suvobor, called Straight Mountain. It's the same place Colonel Draža Mihajlovic came to in May 1941 with 26 soldiers, senior officers and officers. Otherwise, it is also a place where the people, and otherwise all of them are supporters of the political party that is in the coalition with DS, have shown really great enthusiasm and great love for my esteemed predecessor, Srdjan Milivojevic, so when he talks about who the people love and who they don't love, let some of those whistles from Ravna gore remember. I can only imagine how it would have gone if there were supporters of an opposition party, not a party with which Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic was in the coalition. The joke aside, Mr. Milivojevic, this isn't about us running for American spies, running for traitors, this is about us running for the people who promised, not just for us as individuals, but for the citizens of Serbia to fight for one policy, and when they entered parliament, they began to represent the diametrically opposite attitudes. This is about these people not having elementary political morality. This is about some MPs being bought, some for money, some for housing, some being blackmailed, but it's your fault from the authorities who legalized it. I'm sorry, I didn't vote in two different ways at the board meeting, so when it comes to the ruling coalition MP, then I voted for his blank resignation, and when it comes to the MP who left the SRS, I didn't vote for his blank resignation. This is about you allowing the electoral theft, or parliamentary theft. You have made it possible for political theorists to call out-of-election parliamentaryisation, which is an anomaly of a democratic political system. You did this in 2008 and 2009, and now you're trying to legalize the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs who are criminal. Indeed, I do not see, Mr Milivojevic, that here any of the representatives of the ruling coalition with some great enthusiasm and elan defends the provisions of allegedly European law. This is where people sit with their heads down, keep quiet, walk, their stomach hurts, they've got a lot of work to do, they're walking around town. Why don't they defend the Venice Commission's opinions a little bit? Why don't they convince us that this is for the best? No, I don't. People are sitting, silent and waiting tomorrow for the day of the vote. The only argument they have is "we have the majority." The fact that the majority will stand behind one punitive legal and political text doesn't seem to worry you very much, Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55652	Thank you. This has exhausted all the time you had at your disposal as head of the parliamentary group. I ask all MPs not to address each other directly, because this is what those rights which I am not really working with, but I cannot dispute, so the word based on the replica has Mr Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55653	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I was saying that some political parties had run for American spies, I didn't say a word about the SRS. They recognized themselves, they answered the word themselves. That's their problem, not mine. When we talk about flat mountain, unlike the party that has an anthem, "Ready, prepare, brushes", I can always go out to the flat mountain and, whether someone whistles or doesn't whistle, I can give a speech and I don't have a problem coming up with supporters of other options. It's not just a SPO supporter. There are many other political options that are not for the values shared by the DS. I'd have a problem with getting in front of DS supporters so I can whistle, like some people have a problem getting in front of the supporters of their own party, and then face the whistles. Also, I'd have a problem if I were to go out in front of any citizen of this country, bow my head and say, you know, you're right. No, an intellectual in Serbia, if he wants to be an intellectual, is very often in the minority and is very often able to face the majority that does not support his views, but has no complex and no fear of it. Because as the minority was in this country just three years ago when it came to the EU, when the minority was in this country when it came to the EU during 1991, 1992, 1993, 1996, 1996, in 1999, so the idea, thanks to the endurance of my friends and colleagues from the DS, from the SPO, from the G17 plus, from LSV, won and is now the majority part in Serbia, and I am proud of that, but I am obliged to continue to cultivate, preserve and develop this idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55654	Let's just get something straight. Mrs. Kolundjia, did you report from the replica or as a pronoun? Then we'll give Mr. Martinovic our word first. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Milivojevic, for your information, Vojislav Seselj in May 1991 organized a gathering on the Plain Mountain, at a time when you probably didn't even know what the Straight Mountain was. As for who comes to the Straight Mountain, so you're absolutely right, there everything is crawling with members of LSV, GSS, LDP, SPS, PUPS, you can't come up there, climb the Straight Mountain from those of LDP, LSV, etc. Mr. Milivojevic, as an unauthentic member of the DS, but as an associate of the Resistance, you don't know exactly the history of the DS. I guess there's someone on that flat mountain who's a member of the DS. Do you disown a man who is one of the founders of the DS - Desimir Tosic? Mr. Milivojevic, during World War II, as a youth, was a member of staff of the 501 Yugoslav Army in the country, one of the chief editors of "Our Words" in London, who gathered political emigration in Great Britain. It's impossible that none of all the people there were DS supporters. How do you know you've been whistled by SPO people? Maybe you were whistled by someone from the DS. DS, Mrs. Kolundzija, you know it best, it's a party that has since 1990 been the heritage of the Equality tradition. I don't know why you're only tying the flat mountain to the SCI, the LDP, the SPS, maybe Mr. Riza Halimi, etc. It's impossible, I guess there's someone from DS on the flat mountain. If I were you, Mr. Milivoevich, I'd be worried...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55656	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I hope we're done with Straight Mountain before we even get started. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji, authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55657	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason I don't answer each of the arguments presented here when the amendments are explained is because, among other things, the argument presented here was a fundamental argument and in the debate in principle. So, in the debate in particular, we are still talking about whether the amendments and additions of this law to parliament will make a market, whether amendments and additions to the Law on selecting Members of Parliament will come up with a dissuasion or, in my deep confidence, take a step further in building a political system in Serbia. Still, the argument that we're doing on a warrant, that this isn't our will, that we're supposed to be ashamed here, that we're head down and such completely pointless things that we're hearing here, that's why I'm not responding to each of these arguments, I have to admit sometimes with the sole intention to insult others. Whoever has a lack of argument and reaches for an insult, I think that the most common and more prone to it, doesn't deserve any answer. I think the answer is given by citizens in the elections, as will citizens in the elections give to those parties who introduce corrupt people to parliament who will be bought afterwards. So, citizens will give their own court and therefore I deeply believe that these amendments and additions to the law are in line with what the interests of citizens are, which is that political parties, as holders of pre-election activities and political activities, certainly have their key activity in organising, implementing, running, etc. In my deep confidence, we must look for the system that will make it impossible for political parties to become masters of people who have been elected by citizens, and the way the Assembly has so far functioned and interpreting the Constitution by which the parties are the owners of the mandates of MPs, is an abuse and is in some way an outcast of the electoral will of citizens. So, the Constitution did not say that the parties had the opportunity to have the mandate, the Constitution said that the MP could, if the MP could, then it is entirely legitimate to prescribe the conditions that would allow the MP to place his term of office at the disposal of the party with whose election papers he was elected. In the future, I repeat again for who knows which way, we as our political goal and programme choose to join Serbia's EU, we want to bring our legislation into line with some standards, some of the solutions that exist in Europe's most developed countries. No one is making us do it, we are not doing it by someone's dictatorship, we are working on the deep belief that it is in the best interests of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55658	The word is Dr. Zoran Shami. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: Replica. ) You do not have the right to reply, a position is expressed that is very well known to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55659	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Come on, give me back some time. I have 40 seconds, perfectly enough to say two things. First, the fact that this law is anti-constitutional is also clear to the legal laymen. But in the debate in principle I said that he was not only anti-constitutional, he was opposed to common sense. And to illustrate that, I have cited only one example of a dozen examples that, believe me, I can point out. As a result of this case of mine, concerning the Ministers of the Government, is Mr. Ruzic's amendment. Now I'm sorry I haven't listed all 15 or 20 examples of stupidity that are the consequences of a law like this. I still stand on the point that this law is destructive, anti-constitutional and contrary to common sense and will serve the shame and shame of those who bring it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55660	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55661	I wouldn't be surprised if most of the debate was led by laymen and uninformed people in matter the way he was led in the good part of the discussion. I don't want to give an evaluation, as I don't agree to someone giving me grades in the manner of exposure, behavior and evaluations that I make as a MP. But we owe it to the citizens to tell what a good parliamentary practice is, what the experiences of old democracies are and what they are we want to look up to. I'm really surprised none of the debaters reminded me of a good book, which was translated here in Serbia in 2008, and was issued in 2006. I ask the citizens to pay attention to it, it's called Parliament and Democracy in the 21st century. It's a UN issue, counting communities at an international level that deserves respect for everyone who wants to hear and see. In 2006, a book was published on parliament and democracy, the rights of MPs, the openness of parliament, the control of its costs, relations with citizens, protection of MPs. It was translated in 2008, long before some shocked what had to happen. From this book, otherwise very useful for reading to those who do not want to open their eyes and hear what the citizens want, in terms of wanting to change their lives better, to find out, to look at at least what's on page 37 to 41, isn't much, four pages read. It is called the protection of the rights of MPs in the exercise of their mandates. Yes, perhaps someone thinks that here they can bring the most disgusting insult, try to humiliate someone by making at least no lie, nothing, and never any evidence, because the Committee on Human Rights of 93, the Interparliamentary Union, the publisher of this book, protects him by the following provision: "Salanica inviolability refers to everything that has been said or written, or done by MPs in carrying out his regular official duties. Such protection is absolute and life-long and lasts even at the end of the qualities of the Members. All countries, without exception, accept the principle of parliamentary inviolability that has been defined in this way. "Let the citizens assess whether everything they say about this speaker should be protected in this way. On page 39, the section on the individual rights of MPs and party discipline says that it is necessary to establish a proper balance between the requirements imposed by party discipline and the rights of MPs to freely deliver their opinions. All UN parliamentary member states do not have the same practice, but have the same principles they adhere to. In 1985 alone, in order to prevent the fight against evil, political overfly to other parties, which they thought could undermine the foundations of their democracies and principles that maintain it, the MP had to resign if he did not agree with his party's programme. Only India in 1985. The Swedish Parliament has practice, these are the only two exceptions to the free availability of the parliamentary mandate, that if the MP is expelled from the party or leaves his party during the duration of the period on which he was elected may remain an MP, but cannot join another parliamentary group, nor can he formally join another organised work in parliament. What I point to is special attention, quoting a textbook called – Parliament and Democracy in the 21st century – which some would like to talk about democracy, but failed to teach it through practice and through theory, is the following - the security of MPs regarding their mandate in parliament is essential to Parliament's independence. Therefore: (a) the exclusion of MPs from parliament as a punishment for his exit from the party should be seen as a possible violation of the independence of that MP; I guess that is why our Constitution says that the MP can entrust his mandate to any party; his, not anyone; but the measures against flight to other parties may be necessary in some legal systems to resolve corruption issues; my colleague Stanimirovic from the DS said the great truth the other day – only in Serbia are all to blame until proven otherwise; unfortunately, it is a claim only some of which prove their strength in the elections and it is not significant; b) the laws that allow the impeachmentation of MPs during the term of office should be taken with caution due to the potential endangering of Parliament's independence; (c) the termination of membership in the political party itself should not lead to the loss of seats in parliament. Here's a response to everyone who says -- a dictatorship, a warrant, one or that commission, a conqualification of something that's already happened or something like that. No, this isn't my handwriting, no, this isn't my interpretation. This is a quote of a book issued by the UN, and where will you get higher authority? From me, those who desire will not hear an ugly word, to atone for all here are offended. The aim is for this parliament to be as much party as possible, and for me and my colleagues to expect it to be a parliament of peoples and citizens, not individual parties. It is our responsibility to respond to these challenges. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55662	There's no basis for replication. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Then the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) I'm sorry, Mr. Colakovic, Mr. Martinovic answered his word, advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Neither am I, nor have any of my colleagues offended anyone here. If it's an insult when you say the truth and remind yourself of what happened three, four or five years ago, then maybe it's an insult, but then I really don't know what the difference between insult and facts is. First of all, as to what Mrs. Kolundji said, in no well-organized state standard can be an opinion, there has to be a norm. Are there legal norms in the EU that are uniform, which relate to the choice of MPs? They don't exist. As for the lady who spoke before me, I really didn't see that book published by the UN, but I saw another book written by Tomislav Nikolic in 2006 and called "Woe to the Constitution". All this stuff we're talking about in defense of Article 102. The constitution, in that book, was just presented by Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I haven't read the UN book, but I know what Mr Tomislav Nikolic said at a regular SRS conference on May 19th 2005. (President: Mr Nikolic is not present. ) So the term of office belongs to the MP in some circumstances, and it belongs to Tomislav Nikolic under other circumstances. How can circumstances determine who the mandate belongs to? I guess we don't pay attention to the circumstances, we pay attention to the election results. That's what the Constitutional Court won't be able to explain to anyone. This is about people who are trying to break the Constitution's rule today talking one thing, and a few years ago they were talking another. If it offends anyone that the SRS reminds us of these facts, here, I deeply apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55664	You've advertised a violation of article 107. In Article 2(2), the Member of the People's Parliament shall not be allowed to speak directly to the other Members of Parliament. I did hurt the Rules of Procedure if this applies to you because I didn't warn you because you spoke directly to another MP. You consult a stenogram, and you'll see that I'm right. As for the right to a replica I did not give you, referring to the provision of Article 107(1), you have now misused it. I warn you, don't do it again, because you are under the name of answering to Mrs. Kolundji, who is not there, caught a wide procedure, so you have reached even a people's MP who isn't present. I apologize to Mr. Colakovic. I hope we understand each other, Mr. Martinovic. I give my word to Mr. Colakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55665	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, took part in the preparation of this law by the PUPS parliamentary group, which I said in the previous presentation, and gave support to the solutions offered. I would remind myself that there were more variations to come up with a solution that was acceptable for most MPs, including the opposition, so there was also a proposal by the opposition to balance the issue of determining the mandate on the lists, 50% to belong to the political party, and 50% in the order or 80% to 20% to the election results. These variants have been considered on several occasions and the ruling coalition has been defined for what has been offered. I must say that at that time we have seen certain weaknesses in this proposal and in the public hearing that was organised in this House, we have highlighted as our own opinion and as our position that certain problems may arise when it comes to coalition lists. In this regard, I can say that we have received the support of all those who participated in the debate, including the expert public who was present. It gave us opportunities and encouragement to submit the amendment we have submitted. You got it here in Parliament. In a further debate on our amendment, which is precise and clear in protecting, above all, candidates who are on the list of individual political parties, and also political parties, as minority parties say, I would not say it but everyone, because what can happen to the minority party in the coalition can happen to the majority party, but with less probability that they have more candidates. To all parties in this House, I think there is no one to comment on, and not even that party that goes out on its own, I mean the honourable SRS MPs. That's why we thought it would be accepted. However, it turns out that the Venice Commission is supposed to have a reserve according to the proposal. We made an effort to talk a little bit wider, with the professional public and with us in the party, and we stood at the point that it wasn't quite so. We received an opinion from the Venice Commission, although not on this bill, but on the first version, which was in preparation in March. I will be free to read the part relating to our amendment, which respects the interests of all the political groups that are in this House. It refers to Article 92, and the opinion is No 6192011 as from 1 March 2011. The amendment seeks to define the procedure for replacing the elected member of parliament with another candidate from the list that has been submitted. Article 92 provides that in the event of a replacement, the party returning the seat to parliament is free to make a choice under its discretionary right. Something similar could be estimated to be said when it comes to regulation of a less represented sex. That is why we have continued our activities and in agreement with representatives of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups during the day we have come to the agreement to try to apply our amendment, which, on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, I have submitted and in this respect, we have been agreed that in this text that we have been given to this and enter into the procedure. We think that this is good, and we suggest that all parliamentary groups support this amendment that corresponds to everyone, and it is not contrary to the attitude of other relevant factors in this regard. Once again, I wanted to say that, as far as the attitudes related to the less represented sex are concerned, we support Miss Jerkov's and Papuga's proposal. The amendments they've made, we'll back them up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55666	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respected to the public of Serbia, trying to make some contribution to correcting the irreparable provisions we have proposed, we have submitted an amendment to Article 15, where we asked that Article 92, paragraph 2, be changed with four new attitudes that we thought could really make this member better. "When the MP ceases his term before the time he was elected, the term of office shall be assigned to the first next candidate on the same electoral list to whom the term of office has not been assigned. When a member of the coalition's electoral list ceases his term before the time he has been elected, his term shall be assigned to the first next candidate to whom the mandate has not been granted and proposed by the same political party within the framework of the coalition's electoral list, if provided for by the coalition agreement delivered to the RIK. When a member of the smaller gender on the electoral list ceases his term before the time he is elected, the term of office shall be assigned to the first subsequent candidate of the same gender from the electoral list. When a member of the less-represented half of the coalition electoral list ceases his term before the time of his election, the mandate shall be assigned to the first next candidate of the same half to whom the mandate has not been granted, and proposed by the same political party to the framework of the coalition electoral list, if provided for by the coalition agreement to the RIK. "So we felt that these four new attitudes were acceptable, that they were in line with some laws already passed and of course the Constitution. However, by constantly demonstrating the democracy that we all swear to, we know that the first capital of democracy is a ballot and a pen in the elections and, of course, the right to declare secretly to whom it supports and from whom it expects it to help to reach the country by citizens. It's the first polygon where we all check ourselves, and then comes what's called motivation for these changes, where, I think, a little bit, in American cinema style, we cut the whole thing down, and we get a little sad melodramatic scenes in this proposal that's ahead of us, and I'm afraid we're not going to be able to solve after, in practical life. Because, in the desire for parliament to be no place of corruption, so we were saying, that tycoons cannot buy MPs, and that MPs still have a will, etc., that political parties have no impact after the elections anymore on people who bring to parliament and anything that is in no way in line with common sense and which is difficult to explain, first of all, to the citizens, we have come to accept amendments and reject amendments, but to accept amendments that are pure trade and pure corruption through this law. I may use a difficult word, but I would very much like to see what parliament will look like in the next session, when one of the MPs who comes from the list comes to parliament and goes to the government, and then, for unexplained reasons, goes back to parliament, something happens there, someone gets angry again, leaves the government and starts running his own policy, won't listen to the prime minister, and no more standing in the corner and kneeling on corn, but goes back to parliament, so we have temporary MPs, so I call it because it's a vacant place, someone's being assigned to parliament, and there must be 250 MPs. So when he goes to the government, someone will temporarily replace him, and then when he decides to come back, what about that? As an MP, I suppose he too, a temporary, occasional, empty place, has acquired the right to an MP? How are you going to chase him down? How are you going to take his mandate, give it to the one who's supposed to come back from the government now? How will the representatives of the less-represented sex go? There will be, I'm afraid, things that Europe will only say – so you're really not mature, not for democracy, you're not mature for much. So we're gonna have a hard time explaining that to them. This can't be explained to the citizens, but come on. All I can say is, well, it's been trading, now it has to settle down, and it has to be that way, it's got to be 126 hands, and that's why this amendment has passed. I don't understand why some excessive amendments that would really make this law any better, now that we're changing it by force and, as I said, in the style of American cinema, we're cutting it down at any moment, how are we going to do this in practice? So, until the day of the vote comes, we here and the proposing representative, who can still influence something, let's adopt at least something that can live, which is normal, which won't damage the basic right of citizens, his democratic right to secretly vote in the elections, to decide to distract him from going to those elections and to show his will. I'm afraid this is more of a boycott of choice, which is not good. It is good that the more citizens participate and make a state of their own, choosing us and making us variable and able to participate at any moment. That's the real motive.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55668	On Article 15 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The proposer's representative and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment with corrections, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The proposer's representative and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment with corrections, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The word is Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 17 states that this law should enter into force on the eighth day of its adoption, but that general rule excludes two members, Articles 13 and 15. These are members who determine that the mandates will be assigned in a orderly manner. That, from what we've heard, is one of the most important changes in the law. What bothers us is that, as you say, it was done in accordance with the Constitutional Court's position, in accordance with the joint opinion of the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. Now the question arises, if these provisions have so far been unconstitutional, if they were not in line with European principles, why are you delaying the entry into force of these provisions? Does this mean that you want to be in a state that is against democratic principles for another year until the next election? However, since this is the end of the debate, I must estimate that this is an anthological debate, not because we have heard anything epochal. Indeed, most things are well known here and I am sure that the citizens of Serbia will assess it. But it's anthological that it seems to me that never before have MP groups gone so far as to criticise what they're going to vote for. Practically, there are no parliamentary groups of the ruling majority, of the PUPS, of the SPS, of the G17, of the DS, of the SPO and of who else knows, it's hard to count them all who makes this ruling coalition, that they haven't put out all the worst on this bill, but tomorrow, when the voting day comes, they will come and raise their hand, or press the appropriate button to support this law. It's the best possible indicator as far as the MP's freedom is concerned. So it goes all the way up to the voting day. I would also like to say that it is high time, since we listened to the inspired debate and the DSS MPs, in particular Milos Aligrudic, who once again said that the DSS is against stealing the mandate, that it is against Bogoljub Karic. I remind you that Bogoljub Karic stole only one mandate, and Gandhi from Bajcetina, or Tomislav Nikolic 21, does this mean that they finally give up co-operation with any future saunas that steal, or SNS, and that we hear... (President: Time.) ) here, I end up, where the DSS was when it was due on the Administrative Board to protect the mandates of the SRS and to hear whether it will consistently apply the DSS to both the city of Belgrade and all other units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55670	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle and in particular on the draft law in principle, details and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amending Law and DEFINITIONS OF THE DUVAN (single) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, called for the session to be attended by Ms. Slavica Jelac, the director of the Office for Tobacco at the Ministry of Finance and Jasmina Milosevic, head of the Department of Tobacco Management at the Ministry of Finance. I also remind you that, based on Article 99. Rules of Procedure, shortened time to discuss this item on the agenda. You have received an amendment submitted to the bill by the People's MP Milorad Buh. You have received reports from the Legislative and Financial Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendment submitted. The National Assembly carried out a search in principle, in accordance with Article 157(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I welcome those who have gone out. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on ID card (single) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, on the search in detail in the 16th item of the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the ID card, in addition to the representatives of Mr. Ivica Dacic, First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, has called for the sittings to attend: Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior and Mrs. Zorica Kasalica, Head of the Administration for Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Toskovic, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz, Petar Jojić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Viorel Žura and Aleksandar Martinović. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I just want to let you know that I expect every moment that the minister will be here because he left the New Belgrade Palace 15 minutes ago, so we'll move on to work. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: It is no problem to take a break of ten minutes. I think he's already in and he needs to come here now. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added in front of article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted, I would say, a large number of amendments, given the fact that this is an amendment and an addition to the law that we are constantly exchanging and supplementing because it is obvious that the MUP cannot assess how long it takes to finally replace our own cards, nor is it conscious or capable of its technical and organisational potentials. We took this opportunity to make all the misunderstandings that, according to us, exist in that law in some way to present to the promoter. We hope that in some future period there will be much more understanding for everything we propose because, unfortunately, no amendment to any parliamentary group is respected. As for this Article 2, it is specifically about the fact that when it comes to the right to obtain a ID card after ten years, that part defines one concept of a child. So each face for over ten years is defined as a child. It is said: "A citizen over ten years of age (hereinafter referred to as child) has the right to ID." So, one attitude that's pretty vague. Not clear in the sense that anyone over the age of ten can be treated as a child. That age line isn't defined. It is also important that I remind myself that in different laws, in a different way, who is treated by the concept of a child means, how many years, which age. There is a different practice in the surrounding countries. Therefore, it was quite enough for us to define that each person over the age of ten has the right to an identity card and that this job is not complicated, and if we are aware that at the age of 16, we are able to obtain a legal obligation to submit an application for the issue of a ID card, only by some analogy of the MUP can we come to the conclusion that the child is someone between ten and 16 years of age.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55672	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has Miæo Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of the explanation of counterpart Zoran Antic, regarding the proposal to amend and supplement this law and on the first proposal in the words "and children" we ask that it be replaced by the words "persons under 15". Also, Article 2 should be changed and read as follows: "A citizen over the age of 55 is issued an I.D. with a permanent validity." We have tabled a proposal under this amendment, where we are asking for entry 3 to be deleted. It is simply amazing that the solution contained in the bill, under which a permanent ID card is issued to persons over 65 years of age, and only on their own request, is unnecessary harassment of older citizens. If we consider that according to the old law, this applied to people who are 50 years old and then take out a permanent ID card, and not to their request, but specifically, why are we now in a situation to increase this time limit by as many as 15 years? Also, the explanation given by the government and the minister is truly incomprehensible. You have a situation where someone took out their ID card at 64 and that this proposal from this bill can only be fulfilled in the year 74, or in that year, to apply for the issue of a long-term identity card. These persons, taking into account that they live and mainly in rural areas, mean they need a lot of time to get to the headquarters of police administrations that are in the city headquarters, or municipalities, that argument did not want to be considered, as if in Serbia this age structure of the population had become healthier at a time since the DOS has been in various variants of power. Then what did we want to correct with the amendment? We also find it unreasonable that citizens of Serbia, who are not out of anger, but for practical reasons, and these reasons are mainly the reasons for the existential nature of the search for work, went abroad to find work, live there, have a residence in Serbia, and that you are the deadline for the importance of personal cards, and those who have a residence in Serbia, are reduced to only two years, or five times smaller than we are. Incredibly contradictory within the government itself. So, we have the Diaspora Ministry, which allegedly deals with the problems of our citizens in the diaspora, in the region, we have a situation that you propose this law to the situation that the deadline of importance of personal cards for people living outside Serbia's borders, and they have residence and citizens are Serbia, is reduced five times compared to ourselves. Have you forgotten the circus that caused the change of passports and everything else and whether this should happen with this document very important, which is a personal map, otherwise the position of the SNS, that every citizen of Serbia, wherever he lives, must own, or have the right to own the personal map of the Republic of Serbia. Also, not to repeat what the argument is in the context of an argument under Rule 1. The bill was presented by counterpart Zoran Antić, which is that children, i.e. this category must be aware of some legal frameworks, if they are foreseen by our law, that it is at the full age of 14 years, then we also predicted that this vague term - children should be clarified and that in the context of interpreting the law and some other laws the term, or words - persons younger than 15 years of age. Besides, we can't stand the amendments so you can accept them. We submit amendments to improve the conditions of life for Serbian citizens, reduce administrative costs, and you people who have been forced to make special costs in the eighth decade, regardless of the reason that the documentation during the first process of extracting their ID card is not the same as, say, those documents exist in police administrations, in municipalities, in the parent services. The person who is of that age must be physically present at the time of the application, and more importantly, not every citizen of Serbia must know that he has the right to seek approval for a permanent ID card. Most Serbian citizens, unfortunately, are not addressed to the law, and especially we MPs can't catch everything for reasons that, not just a year ago, we're passing a lot of laws, and this year we're only dealing with amendments and additions to laws that have not long ago been passed and affecting both the existence and the poor standard of Serbian citizens. There is no reason not to accept what is really and reasonable and acceptable, which means only improving the lives and standards of citizens, regardless of whether it comes from an opposition or ruling political group, I am telling you that this law, and we have submitted to almost every member of the bill amendments, not only to hear our word, but to experience in at least a year some corrections and you will see that, like many laws, certain provisions are truly both impractical and unacceptable to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55674	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55675	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry of the Interior, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, by proposing that attitude 2 be changed and it should read – the citizen of the Republic of Serbia over the age of 60 is issued with a permanent validity in the chip-free form. It is not clear what has changed in our country's legislation, as well as in the laws of parallel law, and why this limit is increased when in 1994, the Personal Card Act provides for a person up to 50 years of life to be issued with a period of validity of 10 years, over 50 years with permanent validity. We believe that moving this border is unwarranted and that citizens should be allowed no longer to be exposed to bullying, shagging or additional costs to go out of their new ID card, as if they would get a new job or go into diplomacy on that occasion. We think this should be deleted, it needs to be changed, and that's why it needs to be harmonised. I speak in 1994, it was 50 years if he crossed the face of age that his ID card was issued with permanent importance. You see, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Dacic respect the Assembly and respect the MPs, which should be particularly appreciated, because unlike some of the other parties, ministers do not respond and thus disrespect this highest legislature. From the past, representatives of the ministry have always been present to monitor the work of the Assembly and to answer parliamentary questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the European Council adopted the Convention on the Protection of Persons in 1990, given the automatic processing of personal data. Key elements of the Convention, which represent a minimum of standards, which should also be incorporated into national legislation, mean that they should also be incorporated into the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, are attitudes relating to the following. The quality of the data which implies that data on the person to be processed automatically must be collected and processed in a legitimate manner. Further, memorialized, specified and indicated for which purposes should not be used. Suitable, relevant and not too large in relation to the purpose of the work that has been memorized, accurate, if possible up-to-date, and possible if taken into account in the relevant portfolio. Maintained in a form allowing the identification of entities, the data to the extent necessary for the purposes for which the data is stored. Specific categories of data, data on persons identifying origin, political attitudes, religious or other beliefs, as well as data on persons relating to health conditions, sexual life, criminal activities, must not be processed automatically. Data protection; what is very important, appropriate protection measures must be taken according to personal data stored in automated files in order to protect against unauthorised destruction or loss, as well as from unauthorised access, data exchange or discrimination. Additional data protection for entities. Each person must be allowed to know that personal data about him have been stored and for what purpose, at reasonable intervals and without too much delay, have been time-consumed by such data in relation to that person. What do international standards require? Search for correcting wrong data or deleting if their memory is not based on an appropriate law. It has the possibility to take appropriate actions of a legal remedy, which means that, if a citizen, if against him, against his will and without his knowledge, but without legal basis, has committed memory or taking personal data and that such data can be misused, the European Council of 80 years in this Convention on the Protection of Personality Data, provided for the possibility that a citizen who finds out that the data used, any person, has the right to lodge a complaint, has the right to intervene with the competent authority, either the MUP, or the court, or any other state authority. The exceptions would also be possible if it were the country's security and defence. It is safe and necessary to obtain information about certain persons. If it comes to the security of the country, public policy, the monetary interest of the state, the suppression of criminal activities and the protection of entities or rights, the freedom of other entities. This 1980 Convention, which has initiated a number of actions on the international agenda towards the resolution of the privacy of individuals, had an exceptional importance not only for the EC member states, but also for other countries, including our own, which in 1992 passed a law confirming this Convention. In 1995, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a Directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personality data and the free movement of such data. The basic objective of the Directive is, on the one hand, to protect fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, in particular their right to privacy in relation to the processing of personal data and, on the other hand, not to restrict or prohibit the free movement of these data between Member States, for reasons related to the request and to certain protection. In this context, the Directive provides a clear and stable framework for simple regulation of a high level of protection of informational nature and privacy information. What are the international acts: the UN has also been very active in the plan of protection of privacy. Among other things, they adopted guidelines on computerised databases, which were adopted by the General Assembly on 14 December 1990 at its 68th plenary session, which sets out 10 basic principles that each country should provide in national legislation. Mr. Minister, we are now in the field to which this law has given attention. First, the legality and impartiality, second accuracy, third existence of an exact purpose, to which the purpose of the data being entered into the personal map, i.e. the database, the restriction of the availability of these data, non-discrimination and non-discrimination, special authorisation for the taking of such data, data protection, surveillance and sanctions, the arrangement of cross-border flow and the scope of such data. From the point of view of privacy protection, the activities of the OECD, the UN, the EC and the Council of Europe are of paramount importance, because they are aimed at the same objective, comprehensive and quality protection of individuals' privacy. These activities should initiate the resolution of privacy at national level, contribute and overcome existing problems, indicate ways and means of solving problems, facilitate the coordination of adopted solutions in the area of common interest and encourage co-operation to eliminate or reduce the risk of national legislation being an obstacle to free cross-border passage and its flows. What's the situation with us? Given the fact that the protection of personal data is one of the basic personal rights of citizens, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in Article 42, the protection of personal data, collection, holding, use and processing of personal data is regulated by law, therefore by this law, but without chips. The SRS believes that data collected and used within the chip can be misused by irresponsible persons at any time. It is also prohibited to use personal data outside the purpose for which they have been collected in accordance with the law, but without chips, except for the purpose of conducting criminal proceedings or protecting the security of the RS, as necessary and to be provided for by our law. Everyone has the right to be informed of the data collected, of their personality in accordance with the law and the right to judicial protection because of their abuse. Starting with these constitutional definitions, as well as the fact that Serbia, even before Yugoslavia in 1992, adopted the Convention on the Protection of Persons in view of the automatic processing of personal data by the Council of Europe, our country has worked intensively and is working to protect personal data. However, the adoption of this law on the ID card and the law on changes and additions on the ID card is all insecure if you step away from the Constitution. Although our law contains basic provisions, the rights and obligations of people handling the database, although we do not know what rank the functioners are on these functions and have the authority to monitor the use of the database. So, the quality of the special category of data, surveillance. This surveillance, Mr. Minister, is not clear to anyone in the police administration, which rank of a certain official or official may be engaged. You answered that question one part last time that they were certain faces, but by the administrations they still don't know what the rank of the persons using that data is. Take only this information, in 1878, when Canada introduced DRI, no one could enter the DRI without special authority, and neither could the head of the audit institution enter the office of another auditor unless he made a note that he contacted and entered the Office of the State Auditor, which means that those people and officials who have control over the use of this data must first be provided that no one can ask for data without being determined who used personality data and for what purpose. Given that there have been numerous abuses in the past, that personal data have been collected from political opponents, that there have been abuses in relation to and conduct of operational processing, that there have been coordination and various agents who used our data, especially from the countries of the West, it would be dangerous if these data were left to everyone to keep them. That would mean something to you if you let a fox into a henhouse. Then you know what happens; feathers fly. Mr. Minister, the SRS believes that constitutional rights are primarily in the first place and that they must be respected, because these are constitutional principles and that protection is a constitutional category. Therefore, any law relating to a person and his data must in any case be precise, clear, must prevent any abuse. That is why we find it unacceptable to collect data in electronic data processing that can come into other people's hands tomorrow, into uninvited hands and thus endanger basic human rights and also general interest. So much for this amendment and the time I used.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55676	Have you spoken from the time of the authorised representative or the parliamentary group? - It's a pay-as-you-go group. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55677	There were no interceptors here, no listening. When I once, in that assembly, seven or eight years ago, asked the chief of the BIA's question whether or not to listen to the MPs in the MPs' clubs and offices, he answered – they are no longer listening. Mr. Minister, we consider, given that Article 2 provides for the collection of these data which I have spoken about and their processing, it is unacceptable for us as provided for in Article 2. It is unacceptable from the predetermined explanation to Article 1 of the proposed law. The question arises – what and who can use the introduction of these data and their electronic processing? Will corruption and crime be reduced? He won't. This has not been shown to be effective in any country at all. Secondly, when it comes to human rights, Francois Mitteran proposed that provisions related to electronic data processing be expelled from the law in 81. Because that "engineola" is a miracle of technique, which can cause great and harmful consequences for the citizens and for our country. You can see why these Westers aren't ready to accept a ID card with a chip. Why don't the Americans have it? Why don't they have enough English? Because they know that these data can be easily misused. Police should not be limited to powers when it comes to crime and the security of the state. In that case, we know what instruments every police in the world has, and that our police are supposed to have. However, again I say – the SRS is against the chips and additions of these data, which allow an interested and uninvited person who can access this data because it will be a facial radar, control from one center. The state wants to control all citizens and at any time the state can, if these provisions are applied, for only its known reasons and its interests or the interests of any political party or any political leader, come at any time and whenever it wishes to obtain information about a political opponent, about his past, about his privacy, about his property, about his determination on any basis. That's why we think this is too high and we don't need it. Serbia as a modern state for 200 years, from Karadjordje to today, has served certain data necessary for the issue of personal documents, and the basic evidence and documents would be: a copy of the birth certificate, citizenship assurance, photography and dactyloscopying, right indexing, and if there is no right index finger, left index finger is taken. The "Dactyloscope Collection" of the famous Serbian criminologist Vučetic is irreplaceable today and is being applied worldwide. It's enough fingerprints, but not in this way to take a fingerprint, so the police can take it on the street. Do you know what kind of humiliation it is to take data, especially when someone's being ID'd by a cop, he's experiencing it with one inconvenience, and besides, when a cop pulls out that box of sponge and ink and says, "Give me a fingerprint too?" That wouldn't be good. In the 2000 Code of Criminal Procedure, we provided that the photographing of a person and taking fingerprints cannot be taken without the consent of the competent prosecutor or the investigating judge. Why? In most cases, there have been numerous abuses – persons are called to the SUP, someone suspects that he stole a bicycle or five chickens and invited him to a criminal cabinet, photographed, took prints, and a man is neither guilty nor in debt, has nothing to do with it, because no one has provided valid evidence. But that's why his data stays in criminal records. I see the police aren't doing it now like they used to, especially as Mr. Dacic came to the office of minister. What we Serbian radicals consider to be, here we should have been aware of the issue of ID cards to the minimum of evidence. Not only will it be necessary for a citizen to have a photo, to have confidence in citizenship or a copy of the birth certificate, but it is possible for an authorised person to ask for other information, as this is foreseen in the law. He says "and other data needed." What other data is that? What are they not, above all, precise, which are not specified, to know for what purposes and what additional information they need when issuing their ID card? Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you to make a contribution on your part, and you can, uh, speed up the issue of ID cards and passports, because citizens are harassed, chicanated, long waiting for those documents. Now it's waiting for change and driver's licenses, as well. You're registering a vehicle today, you're doing a technical checkup, all you get is confirmation, and in a month, you get a traffic license. If necessary, fill in a number of people who will work on these jobs. On the other hand, if it is necessary to speed up, and there is a need, to introduce shift work into the SUP and reward it, to work in two shifts. You see what the Germans are doing, the Germans have been a problem with the urgency of the courts, and the Germans have an agency now, but the priorities have employees, work their hours in the morning, and in the afternoon they deliver calls, files, etc. to clients. They were rewarded with three euros per delivery. That's why I think there's an opportunity to introduce shift work, because now this is one campaign where you have a lot of work to do. You can also hire those who worked in the police, people checked out, help out, introduce shifts and, on the other hand, order sublaws. What's going on with us? This is incomprehensible. The government proposes a number of laws, parliament adopts almost everything by emergency procedure. What is it about an emergency procedure, to pass 2,000 laws since 2000? That's ridiculous. No country in the world has that. On the other hand, why an emergency procedure? To prevent a public debate? Why isn't the law coming to a public hearing? You see, we will soon have, according to media announcements, although MPs have not been informed about it, nor have members of the Legislative Committee, nor the Justice Committee, received at least a copy of the PDO Draft. He'll be here in a month for an emergency procedure. No public hearing, no objections. What happens next? The law is passed here, but its application is delayed for a year, and the proposal has been submitted to the Assembly by an urgent procedure. What does that mean? It's harassment and public deception. That law is not applicable. What's more interesting? For the implementation of certain laws, a dozen regulations should be adopted, but it is the greatest evil that individuals break basic law standards by sublaw. Not to say you have cases of crime. Imagine, the bankruptcy bill was passed. In 2005, the government and one minister passed a rule on the award of bankruptcy managers. The award is due to receive 580,000 euros from the bankruptcy manager at Agrolive in Panchev. If now, gentlemen of Parliament and Mr. Minister, I have sent a play, but I have not received an answer to it, although you should answer me according to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. If we now ran an analysis from 2005 to this day, according to that regulation, which has been changed, you would see that half of the privatized assets have gone into the hands of private and bankruptcy managers. Do the bankruptcy directors share with some of the authorities, I believe it could only be determined by your police. So much for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55678	The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Mr. Zoran Antic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55679	Ladies and gentlemen, amendment to Article 2. The SNS applies, first of all, to the pattern and the appearance of the pattern. We're very dissatisfied with the look of the pattern. We believe that it is neither high quality nor representative of the Republic of Serbia and that there have been serious failures. Also, what bothered us when it comes to that pattern is the problem of microcontrollers. We believe that the onigrants who apply to have a microcontroller in the very form of ID cards are entitled to this, but we have a big problem with reading these ID cards. This reading creates great costs, very few devices, especially in small environments and I think that, generally, the problem with microchips, to be honest, and the low literacy of our citizens when it comes to microchips problems, creates a big problem for both abuse and possible theft of certain data. What I think in front of the SNS right now is that we have a big problem with the photos. The quality of photography is catastrophic. I think most citizens are dissatisfied with the quality of the photographs and I think all the private photographers who are unhappy with the 2006 solution, which is completely excluded from this process. I don't think the MUP in this area has enough professional personnel, it seems to me that often there's not enough quality equipment, that there's no respect for that procedure that's just been issued when it comes to photography, where there's often a problem with bad neon lighting, the fact that photography is done in boxing, that this photo seems from too little distance, unequal lighting, it's also obvious for every professional who knows this area well. That is why we have photographs that are extremely problematic and we regret that in this proposal you have not taken a little more account of it and found a way, even if that form, to get through the idea of licensing, because it seems to me popular when it comes to this government and since 2000 we have been licensed for everything and everything, private photographers involved in this job and to preserve a large number of jobs, without which they have remained thanks to that member and that provision in the law. I think we have a big problem in this area that's not just a problem for the MUP, I think all possible ministries, agencies, institutions that have started dealing with state entrepreneurship. You know, when you don't have enough money from the budget, you figure out how you're going from citizens, from the economy to some funds, how you're going to increase some of your own revenues. We literally have the fact that the state entrepreneurship is getting more and more waved, and at the same time, when it takes public enterprises to restructure, I almost had the opportunity to talk to the workers of Belgrade Airport, then, without any basis, without being able to privatise these newly formed enterprises, separate some continents, on the grounds that it will be easier to do business and that it will be easier to privatise, that it is appropriate to some market economy, one market way of doing it. So, if one principle for public enterprises, for social enterprises that are in the privatisation process and in the restructuring process, that same principle should probably be for state institutions and state institutions to release all those actions, to transfer it to the private sector, it's something that's probably quite natural.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55680	Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55681	Your Honored Presidency, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I will take the opportunity, since we do not have such a frequent case that you are present in parliament under certain laws, to inform you of some of the problems that are related to the Nis Police Department and to ask some questions. Namely, at the Nis Police Administration since new documents, passports and ID cards began to be issued, although the work is done at several locations in the city, crowds have been constant and there is almost no place in the city where these personal documents are issued that there are no huge crowds and that there is not even enough to go to stand in ranks or someone to pay you to stand in line, to come in line to hand over the documentation for obtaining a ID card or passport. It is the same situation or even worse with regard to vehicle registration and obtaining a new traffic licence, i.e. a table. Since the job has been done for the third year, passports and ID cards, that traffic permits have been issued under new rules since the beginning of the year, the crowds have not been affected, even during a period of time when incidents occurred in the premises where the documentation was submitted. It is simply an impression that this work is not well - organized enough, or that it is not done by a large number of people. If you have two years of constant 50 people in line every day and if you don't get there that day to take those first 40 numbers, as much as you can handle one place that receives the documentation, then you have to come back tomorrow to wait or even there were cases that people were standing, come early in the morning or early in the morning, overnight, waiting in line to resell their number to someone who would come tomorrow to hand over the paperwork. I don't think it's a well-organized job and it can't happen in a normal and organized country. When citizens go to the polls, they choose a certain power, they choose and want, giving their vote, to get the authority that will organise the state, so that it takes the least of their time, to make it as cheap and efficient as possible. If this is how business is organised, these administrative affairs concerning the police administration, I don't think it's really the citizens' interest and it's really the harassment of citizens. As for the registration of the vehicle...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55682	I apologize, Mr. Lapčevic, the amendment submitted by the Prosperity Group to Serbia refers to the applicant's request to install or not install a microcontroller. That's one thing. The other thing, Minister Dacic is one of the ministers who has each time explained and sent every single one of his laws from the beginning to the end, right from the Assembly, so I am asking you now to link the traffic permit to a microcontroller that is being installed if requested by the applicant on a personal map. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55683	Thank you for the intervention. Of course, it's not directly related, but it's simply business that is waiting and business that directly affects the everyday lives of citizens. If IDs are obtained and this law changes tomorrow at the vote, the same will happen and beyond, nothing will improve in real life. So my question is why is that? Why, if those documents cost every citizen, why don't we have more employees to do so? These ID cards, passports and other documents are not free. Citizens pay for them. If they pay them, why do only three officers work day and night, they can't lift their heads and of course they can't handle all the demands? Third thing, I referred that question to two or three weeks ago. I haven't got the answer yet. It's not a unique case, but it's very eclectic. For a year and a half, a low-level police department doesn't have a chief. I'm sorry, the second or third-largest city in the country that there's no SUP for a year and a half, I don't think that's right, and that's not normal, so I'm asking you what the reasons are for that, and if you're going to do something to make sure that these anomalies in relation to the issue of personal documents get through, that citizens get quality service, that they don't wait in lines, that they don't get bullied, because they deserve to have an effective administration that solves their problems for a short time. I'm sorry about the little deviation from the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55684	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like the Minister to tell us why this amendment has not been accepted. I can't tell from this explanation that we've been given, because it seems to me that no one has even read our amendment. Then comes the question – why are laws or amendments and additions to the law being proposed? The laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, are likely to be proposed to correct a law, to facilitate its application, to have better results in its application, and to remove the shortcomings that one law has. The explanation sent from the government of the Republic of Serbia says the amendment is not accepted because Article 8 of Article 5 does not cover the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on ID cards. That new member of the 8th has four positions and we've asked for a fifth. We don't know, except for one pretty stupid explanation, why that attitude isn't accepted. It is true that this law is often changed. Here, after several months, we have it again in the process and the wishes of our opposition MPs is that the law be better when voted and passed, not to obstruct the work of the Serbian Parliament. Now, when I read some explanation, I have two feelings in me. The first feeling is that one of your associates, Mr. Minister, who wrote one of these reasons, I have a feeling that other children beat him while he was a child, so now he has complexes of lower value and he's decided to calculate himself with the MPs. On the other hand, I feel bitter as a national MP, because for each of these amendments hours and hours of effort, reading the law, consulting with people in those areas who have been or are still in the application of some law. You know what, it happens, unfortunately, in our country that more counts what some counselor got there as some information from someone than that part of life in the application of one law. That's what makes our legislation stupid and slow. Mr. Minister, you were a national MP at the same time I was in the period from 2004 to 2007. A stubborn minister would not accept any single amendment to the opposition. After three or four months, we had proposals on amendments and additions to those laws in which the opposition had been very amended. I thought that those times were behind us, especially since there were amendments and additions to laws in which not even a member of that basic law was included, but it was in the interest of repairing the law that amendments were made to those members and this government in which you are now the president for the first time accepted those same amendments. So, the aim of law-making is to fix it, and the work of this assembly to look at its effectiveness, to participate in reforming the law so that we do not again in some months or two or five months have amendments and additions to the same law. If you look at the explanation, you'll see three or four more of these similar amendments. I think this practice should be interrupted, because the way we submit the amendments is regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the same rules of procedure that these laws are based on. Your associates, no matter what childhood they had, must respect our rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55686	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55687	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I'd like to proceed with this amendment that Mrs. Radet has filed and I'm staying with that amendment. First of all, I believe that the Constitution predicted that the data on the last name and name of the applicant should be entered in the form of a Cyrillic letter, in our opinion. We believe this is a more acceptable solution and, secondly, what our Constitution provides should be respected. As far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, public opinion research in the United States is concerned, it puts as much privacy as 80% of American citizens right behind the right to life and freedom. Do you see how much attention is paid to the privacy and freedom of man? Privacy stands high on a scale of social values. Every day millions of people provide various information about themselves by buying telemarkets and e-mails or mail. They do the same by participating in prize games. Taking credits, creating subscribers usually provide more data than is necessary. Experts say that crossing these different databases is possible to learn practically everything about the psychological profile of the data subject. These are research on the international plan, and therefore any high-integrated identifier poses a threat to civil freedoms, because it is the basis for direct identification, which provides huge authority over the population. Therefore, the SRS considers that there is room to accept the proposal set out in this amendment, and I point out and return to basic human rights and the collection of that data. That's the problem. Mr. Minister, I understand that the collection of data is done by the competent state authorities precisely in certain cases and for a particular purpose, but you see, what I have now pointed out, how these data can be found today, and who can get to that data. Imagine how the law allowed banks and other trade organisations and bookshops, and not to mention, made it possible to print, issue forms and to give citizens more information about themselves than is necessary. Those data they collect past the police, past the BIA, past the D.A.'s office, can be used for blackmail, extortion, coercion, and not to list any more cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55688	The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55689	What bothered the SNS in Article 3 is this part relating to the existence of technical possibilities. Article 3 allows the form to be printed and latinically, and that is no problem at all, but I would remind the Minister and the Ministry that in the text of the law in Article 9, the form is allowed to be printed in English and in the languages of national minorities, which means the Latin letter. It is unclear what are the additional technical problems or some technical possibilities to fill out that future form. Another part that has disturbed the SNS in this business itself is the fact that it takes some sublegal acts to determine what technical possibilities are necessary to obtain a form in a latin letter. It's a pretty vague procedure or procedure that involves some discretionary rights. In the light of the applicants of this law, we have not received any valid reason why this is unacceptable, this amendment itself, why it goes to sublaws. For us, this is a weakness of service. For us, this is a bad organization, a unwillingness to bring this job to an end, we think this is the kind of approach to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the ID card in fact, which is why we have now replaced only one third of the ID cards and why these patterns, their importance and business itself, are extended to 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55690	The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55691	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of this amendment, I will come from the Amendment to Amendments and Supplements, and I will state the arguments that I hope will convince the Minister that this legal solution is unacceptable. Why? Because it's in collegiate with other provisions of this law and when it's accepted, and it probably will, as things go, change the attitude of a 4 person over the age of 16 is practically taken away from the right to apply for an I.D. On the other hand, Article 3 provides for the same person's obligation to have an I.D., over 16 years old, and Article 29 provides for a 30-day sentence if he does not have an I.D. Unbelievable, but true, and you'll probably adopt. It is also not prescribed to punish parents who do not apply for a person over 16 years of age, who must participate in this process. So a person over the age of 16 can't apply for an I.D. if he doesn't have a parent present and, worst of all, the consent of both parents. You have a situation with a large number of divorced parents, that one parent is not deprived of custody rights and that there is no reason to resort to such rigorous measures when submitting or obtaining a certificate. It is impossible in most situations, even in healthy marriages, where parents are not divorced, but for who knows what reasons they do not live together, to ensure the presence and consent of both parents. So it's amazing, and it's true that you're going to punish a person over the age of 16 who has failed to apply for an I.D. and that this legal provision does not apply to parents who are obliged to give consent to obtain such a certificate. One country cannot bring restrictive and complicated regulations and impose restrictions everywhere, starting with the assumption that all citizens will abuse their rights and freedoms and therefore pass such laws. Amendment to the SNS to Article 4. The bill was submitted by the member, which reads: "For a minor under 15 years of age and a person devoid of business capacity the request is submitted by a parent, guardian, other legal representative or custody authority". Why the 15-year limit? Because with a 15-year-old limit, according to our applicable laws, you gain the right to employment, and at the age of 16, you gain the right to marry, and therefore it is the formation of a deadline of one year for issuing these certificates that are necessary for obtaining documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55692	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55693	Zoran Krasic, on behalf of the SRS, submitted an amendment to Article 5 and proposed - before issuing an ID card, the official determines the identity of the person who requires the issue of the ID card and the truthfulness of the other facts mentioned in the application for the issue of the ID card. The person who submits an application for a identity card shall prove his identity and other facts by means of a copy of the birth certificate, assurance of nationality and an earlier identity card if he owns it. Therefore, we believe that in Article 5, it is more effective, under the Constitution, to guarantee citizens simplicity when issuing ID cards and that only these documents are needed, and anything else that would be imposed on citizens would not be justified. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55694	One notice before we continue, we are no longer in direct transmission, the transmission will be delayed. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Viorel Jurassic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55695	Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the MUP, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, which provides in some way for the exclusion of the right of photographers to photograph for personal documents. In particular, in this case for ID cards. Our correspondence, copying and persuasion about who's a better photographer in Serbia, whether the police or photographers, has been going on since your first memo came to me as president of the Association of Photographers of Serbia on July 2, 2008. I understand you're having trouble with the photos that are coming to you and bringing you citizens. All my questions and questions of photographers you answer – photographers do not know how to photograph. Are you sure all the photos are from the photographers? No, I don't. That's why I think in this country photographers should be taking photos, just like they do in the east, both in the west, both in the north and in the south for the last hundred years. The photographers have always photographed for documents. The problem we can't rule out is that they bring you photos taken in manual labor, whoever has a printer, and that maltene has every family. The solution is to license photographers. Dear Minister, and I'm the director of the Alibunar Health House and we can take a solution that's very good at health care. The Republic Health Insurance Office of all healthcare professionals with high professional training – doctors or dental doctors, issued a faxil. Based on that, they can prescribe drugs to the state's cargo with that faxicle. That is, it assumes that he finished school, that he has been trained professionally, that he has 24 points, that I am not burdening the Assembly, professional training during the year, that is, to meet all the conditions and there is no problem. I suggested two or three years ago when I visited your ministry, I didn't talk to you, I did talk to your assistants, that you license photographers and you say - this photographer meets the conditions and this one doesn't. Believe me, there are thousands of registered photographers in Serbia. There are five employees in every photo shop on average. There's one at my photo store, I'm a photographer in Alibunar, and it's a small place. There are many more in Belgrade. Let's say the average is five, that's five thousand. That's five thousand employees in the field of photography, family members, that's 15-16 grand. Not to mention who is employed in a large-scale store in the field of photography and service services, etc. It's about this huge, big factory that we're here to bring into Serbia, you know how much we pay and what preferences we make. It already exists in Serbia and works. Believe me, I'm also a member of the European Federation of Photographers. Serbian photographers are among the most prominent in the EU. We're out of a job. Believe me, most of the McGintos in Serbia were sold to photographers. Ask Ha-pe, the highest Z-400 computer and Z-600 was sold to photographers. So, that's one thing to say, a trade that and how it requires high expertise and knowledge of the computer. You sent me what conditions you need to fill the photo for your documents. I'm not going to take it all out now, because you said it. Not you directly, I will read what is called – Head of Administration Dragan Maksimovic. I don't know him. As a condition for photography, you're asking that the background should be grey 18%. In order for the background to be grey 18%, and gray means that it does not drag into green, blue or yellow assumes that this camera has a manual balance of white. These machines you have in police stations are amateurs that cost 50 euros. If you want a professional machine that can manually balance the white color, it costs between two and three thousand euros and upwards. Anything else, if the person is dressed in yellow, then the background will pull you a little blue. Then what are they doing? Then they turn off the colors, so you get black and white photos. How will you determine the color of the face? The cabin is a meter by meter. So, while the face sits there, you take a picture of the face at 80 centimeters and can you determine the length of the pupils? You can't. You can't, because it's the cause, because it doesn't look into the deeper depths. We photographers take pictures at far greater distances. And here you're saying that the lens can be from 90 to 130 millimeters long distance, but in a 135 or lazier format format. What does that mean? These machines that are on police stations are far less dangerous distances and can't be manually adjusted, now I'm burdening you, but I need to tell you, it can't be adjusted manually. I guarantee one thing, that no one in this room knows the format of the chip in their digital apparatus to use this zoom factor and to reach a value of 90 to 130 millimeters. Not the number of pixels, the number of pixels has no connections, but the size of the chips. So what you have in police stations is unusable for these conditions that you asked for. Watch out, you're looking, under point 10, that there should be no shade of light on the glasses. You know what that eliminates? The polarization filter. How many of your police stations besides your headquarters, your ministry, have a polarization filter? Nobody. Not to make others. Here you assume in your sublegal acts three front lighting bodies. It means flash lighting and one back that will remove the shadow back. It's four lighting bodies. Four lighting bodies, I don't want to mention names, so it doesn't cost EPP about two or three or four thousand euros, unless they're Chinese. Then you can already pass twice as much. You have in your police stations two neon tubes beating from above. You say here in your terms that eyes should be visible and the face should be equally lit. With these neon lights, you can't achieve a face equally lit. Not to mention a dozen things you can't do with this equipment. If you want to go shopping for new technology, why, when we photographers already have it. All our machines, costing 60-70,000 euros up, have a program that he has done, whether Fuji, Kodak, Norico or anyone, for the EU, for American passports, for American visas, etc. So, you get in there, no matter how you take the picture, you can stick to the camera and cut or right, it's got facial detection and it puts it right into the situation that you need. I agree, it's not all photographers, but most of them who have a photographic lab have it. On the way out, either a picture comes out or a CD comes out, or anything, or it can be e-mailed, so it can be sent to the police. But it's the first part that matters. So computer preparation, machine, program, scanner, etc. One of the reasons you had at the beginning with the scan of our photos was the scanner. I've been trying to help the ladies in the Alibunar Daily Setup, the balance of the white paint is working, we work every day, because that's how the machine is programmed. If we don't, then when you scan any picture white is not white, because the balance of white color, it turns out I don't know what color it draws into, etc. So, to avoid overcoming a particular color, then we go in black and white and all our documents and all our ID cards and everything else, you know what pictures are. Therefore, believe me, in all the exhibitions of a photograph of a portrait, wedding photograph, Serbian photographers are among the first. Do you know why? Because it's easy for us. The Serbian people are among the most beautiful peoples. I don't want to mention some of the photographers who told me – hey, can I come and take wedding photos for exhibitions in Serbia? You know, those northerners, they're very difficult, and if you find a pretty lady, you know she's either Polish, or she's our kind or I don't know who. But it doesn't matter. So I think the solution between us photographers and you can be found, for mutual happiness, because, believe me, it's not easy for us. We go to some military facility to paint weddings, the army takes two euros per chair. Yeah, yeah, you heard right. Two euros per chair. How much do we have to paint to get out of what they're recruiting us, and so do we. The police took pictures of us for documents. What are we going to live on? Therefore, I propose that the legal solution remain as it has been so far, by sublegal acts to be resolved so that photographers are licensed, that you, as police, as a police department, issue to every photographer who meets your specific conditions in terms of quality, knowledge, skill, etc. and to issue you fax and license on the door – this photo shop is licensed to take photos for documents. So a citizen doesn't get into a tax-free shop, that's the first condition, so he pays taxes and has certain machines, certain knowledge and certain software.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55696	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 5a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55697	I got carried away in a previous discussion, which was really impressive. Article 5a refers to deceased persons, to the obligation that, when we have a deceased person within 15 days, you deliver the form of the ID card and that it be annulled. In this provision, the SNS has put a grudge on us, and we have found no reason for what is the purpose of this position and this procedure itself. It seems unnecessarily to us, it seems absurd, it seems to us that it further complicates this process of issuing ID cards. If you have a death certificate, if you can determine that your face is deceased, all of it can be done by automation and there's no reason for citizens to be harassed. When it comes to this amendment and this member, we haven't found an adequate explanation from the Ministry why giving up on this institute is unfavourable, which would result in what would be lost. We believe that, in this case, even in some future period, the Ministry should consider how to make this procedure as simple as possible, that we do not have the epithet of the police state or the unnecessary involvement of the police in all things, that we are shortening procedures, creating a more comfortable life for all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55698	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 5b. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, with my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to following Article 5. The proposal and the new Article 5a adds a new Article 5b so that Article 21 paragraph 1 changes and reads: "The person who is required under this law to have a ID card is obliged to show it to an authorised official in the cases of the established law". A new position of 2, 3 and 4 shall be added after Article 1, which reads as follows: "A authorised official may require a person referred to in Article 1 to show a ID card or other document similar to identification when necessary to determine the identity of the perpetrator or witnesses of a criminal offence and in other cases prescribed by law. Legalisation can be performed in a public place only with the consent of a legitimate person. If a legitimate person so requests, the legitimacy shall be made up of a record which shall state the reasons for the legitimacy." Position 2 so far becomes item 6. The amendment proposes to regulate the process of legislating and prescribing the grounds for legitimacy which are not adequately regulated under the current law. We see this as necessary, because in a democratic society it is unacceptable that so-called Officials have no limited and regulated right to legitimize citizens at random and at their own discretion, at any time, at any place and under any circumstances. In such conditions, it has become a practice for citizens to randomly legitimateise themselves in public places, not to be told the reason for the legitimacy, where they are kept and rarely exposed to additional studies on the reasons for their stay in the place of legitimacy on other issues. Especially problematic and unacceptable are frequent cases of police entry into catering facilities, where there is no clear reason to legitimise guests, which has already led to many problems and serious incidents. These issues are clearly regulated in all democratic states to protect human freedoms and possible abuses. Prescribing the obligations of citizens that they must always wear a personal card is a kind of restriction and conditions of freedom of movement, because citizens who for some reason do not have a personal card at a certain point puts them in a position so they should not move freely. Such a restriction is unacceptable in a democratic society and unknown in most democratic states, and many have no obligation to possess such a document. Freedom of movement is guaranteed to Articles 39. The Constitution and international conventions on human rights and freedoms and may be restricted by law only if necessary for the sake of security and public order, public health, morality and the rights and freedom of other persons. However, these restrictions cannot be permanent and general, but only individual, in limited time, space or for individual persons. The proposed amendment of Article 21 in practice will not lead to adverse consequences for security, as most citizens carry a personal map whenever and when conditions allow them to do so from their own needs. However, it is not expected for citizens to carry a personal ticket when they go to the beach, when they go to the field to get their weapons and to hair, and it is also necessary to change, but it is also necessary to protect guaranteed rights and freedom of citizens from arbitrary treatment and possible abuse of official powers, and we can see it daily in the means of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55700	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55701	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted an amendment to Article 7 which, in Article 19a, paragraph 2 following the word "requests" suggested that the words "to which the holder has the right to appeal within 15 days" should be added. Mr. Minister, by order of Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that everyone has the right to appeal and another remedy against a decision deciding on his right, obligation or law-based interest. I am convinced that you are in favour of legality, I am convinced that you are in favour of respect for the human rights and rights of our citizens, but as the proposed solution is in paragraph 2, which says – if the conditions laid down in Article 1 are met, the competent authority shall adopt a decision to prohibit the use of the ID card as a travel document, which shall be valid for six months and which shall be submitted to the holder and the authority that submitted the request. The constitutional category is the right for every citizen to declare a legal remedy, to declare a complaint against any decision by the state authority to decide on his rights and obligations. Is this indisputable, Mr. Minister, as far as the Constitution is concerned? I say it's undeniable. The SRS considers that if all the laws, first of all the Constitution, and if a number of system laws allow citizens to have the right to appeal, then here it would be necessary to allow citizens to file an appeal, this team before this ban is inappropriate, it can last even six months. A decision-making authority can also make a mistake, so the ID card, which, for example, serves the citizens of Serbia or Montenegro, and our citizen, who has a ID card and travels to Montenegro, is taken away from him and he cannot visit his relatives for six months or can't visit anyone in Montenegro or do any work. Please, six months without having the right to appeal, and the constitutional category is appeal or objection, please consider, this is a serious matter. This is too serious a question, especially if the ID is needed, especially in the environment and with those countries with which we border and where no passport is needed, a ID card is enough. I must finally say and ask you, remove the ranks on the counters as soon as possible, solve this problem, you can solve it, be energetic about it, and you have the support of the SRS in every move that respects the fundamental human rights of our citizens. I would like to thank the President of the Assembly, Mr Nikola, who leads the Assembly with extraordinaryness, in an atmosphere that is acceptable and has no tension, no controversy and no experience over the MPs. Thank you Minister for listening and coming, I'm not going to use this time that I might still be able to use.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55702	Thank you for your kind words and for not using them. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a new institute and a pledge for the SNS to move on to a register of invalid ID cards to be run by the Ministry instead of advertising institutes. We think that this register of invalid ID cards can justify the purpose of this institute and justify the possibility that everyone has an insight into whether any identity card is valid, invalid, whether or not the expiry date has expired, all that is related to ID cards should be in the jurisdiction of the MUP. Simply, the "officer official" informs the most often with delay, the delay being 20-30 days later, a small number of citizens following, reading. Doesn't mean that this institute you're proposing can have any effect when it comes to invalid ID cards. Well, you yourself predicted that in article 30, you were erasing a fine of some 5,000 dinars when it comes to non-advertising a lost ID card. It seems to me that you yourself are aware that the official messenger institution has already been overcome and that it is necessary to look for some more modern, more modern and more appropriate forms of advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55704	The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group, proposing that a new member of the 8a be added after article 8. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has Miæo Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55705	We're almost done. One in a series of SNS amendments submitted. For the sake of the public, and also because of the representatives of the Ministry and Mr. Minister, I will read a solution that differs significantly from the proposal submitted to Article 11. We believe that the identity card issued before the date of application of this law shall be valid until the time limit indicated in the ID card. Also, the identity card issued before the date of application of this law without restrictions on the period of validity and under this law may be used without restrictions on the period of validity. ID cards issued under this law, with a five-year period of validity, shall be extended to ten years. Given the fact and the situation that in the previous three years, in the period from 2008 to 2011, we have, as you said, about 2.5 million identity cards issued, due to the complexity of the procedure and a small number of employees, for all these reasonable reasons, this process has not been brought to an end. Given the fact that, when we talked about the amendment to Article 1 and you weren't present in the hall, especially this category of inhabitants who, by law over 40 years old in Serbia, have the right to be around a million citizens when they meet 50 years of age. We had a situation that we couldn't replace all the IDs within this time limit and extend the deadline to 31. 12. In 2016, and yet again, this oldest generation of our fellow citizens is being harassed. You can imagine that in 2016, or the end of 2016, someone may be 90 years old and the situation where he lives, how he lives, whether he can come to the police station and apply for a new ID card. On behalf of the SNS, given the proposals of Article 1 and the proposal to Article 11, we expect and regret that the PUPS is not there to either support the amendment and addition of the Law on ID cards, or that, at the very least, it will vote for these amendments and you, on behalf of this population structure which is indeed threatened by its age structure, please understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55706	Thank you. Mr. Rogovic. This concludes the search of all amendments. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, this is what we have done today's work. We'll continue the session tomorrow, Wednesday, May 25th, at 10:00 p.m. We'll get our congratulations tomorrow, and I'll give the closing word to Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55707	I want to thank all those who have submitted the amendments. I would warn that the essence and purpose of this proposal for a ID bill was to extend the deadline as long as the old ID cards were valid, given that this law, which was passed five years ago, was defined to expire on July 27th. During that time, since you already know how many Serbian citizens there are, three million and 200,000 new passports have been issued so far and close to three million, so two million and eight hundred thousand new ID cards, of which about two million with a chip and 800 thousand without chips. By the way, I'm going to answer some of these questions, and I have to say that it's gone beyond all the assumptions and predictions of the Ministry of the Interior at the time, because I would remind you that according to the analyses we had before the introduction of new travel documents, only 1,200,000 to 1,300,000 Serbian citizens had a passport. So we're three years out, July 7th will be exactly three years after new passports are issued, in less than three years we've issued more than three million, and I think the figure will be three and a half million new passports. I have to say that by the coverage of the population, it may be one of the record numbers, not only in our region, but perhaps throughout Europe. In the first days, when passports were ordered at all, it was said that some figure was ordered by the previous MUP about two million new forms, which has long been spent. Human resources and the MUP are such that our entire administration of administrative affairs, which otherwise deals with not only the issue of passports and ID cards, but also the issue of driving licenses, license plates, citizenship, weapons, migration, readmissions and everything else, counts a little more than 2,000 people throughout Serbia, so it is practically impossible to cover this number of demands. It's true that they were very busy and that the citizens were complaining, but these people really worked all the time. As soon as I came for the minister, I immediately gave the order and we introduced it to work from morning to night, even on Saturday. We will continue to work, however, there is still great interest in issuing passports. What you've proposed as amendments, I don't want to comment on it now. I propose to our Secretary of the Ministry, Todorovic, who participated in writing that first law, that is, the basic version of the law at the time and our Head of the Administration of Administrative Affairs, Zorici Kasalici Lončar, to see what else can be done to improve what I was talking about. It's no problem for us to do everything in the interest of the citizens, we're going to suggest that the procedures be facilitated. Also, when it comes to these photographs, I really understand all these problems. But from what I understand from this proposal, we've given citizens the opportunity to contribute, and before, it's written to approach. So, the citizens will decide whether to attach a photograph or do it at the police station. With all due respect, I think it's much more favourable for the citizens themselves. Because someone wants to be nicer in the photo, but someone wants to be cheaper. In fact, the largest number of photographers brought their beautiful photographs to make them look as beautiful as possible. I'd just like to draw your attention, so there's no confusion. When it comes to passports and ID cards, unfortunately, of everything citizens pay for, for example, a passport, no money goes to the MUP. Everything citizens pay for a passport goes directly to the National Bank of Serbia. If I were to make myself an employer at the Ministry right now, we're here for a clean loss. For ID cards, of 1,113 dinars, 226 dinars go to the MUP. So with these financial resources, we absolutely can't have profit, but it's good to have this level of service, considering there's no money that would allow for improvement in the level and quality of services. We've set things differently now. Since the ministry's composition changed, the head of the IT sector has also changed. We've defined now, when issuing these other documents, a different structure. Now there's also income from traffic tickets. It's already creating the possibility that we have one material basis for continuous improvement, constant monitoring of these state-of-the-art technologies. You're the one who suggested that we return the debate. I don't think we can handle any questions that we didn't want to start as changes and additions to the law right now. I don't mind talking about it, but the question of legitimacy is not part of the amendment and addition of this I.D. law. Especially legitimate, I don't believe any police officers have ever been legitimate in the field. But, well, I understand everything Mr. Becic said, and I agree there should be order in the conduct of the police towards the citizens. Again, on the other hand, you can't even say-- the police can only ID someone if they agree to it. This practically makes it impossible for the police to do their basic work, especially when it is known that legislation always has to make a record, or it cannot be as it is desired. On the other hand, as a man who is not a professional police officer, but as a man who represents a kind of civilian control over the work of the Ministry of the Interior and the police, I absolutely agree that the police's behaviour towards the citizens must be put in order, that no one crosses some of the powers given to him by law, because police are the service of citizens, not the function of harassing citizens. So, despite the fact that we haven't accepted any of these amendments, our goal is to improve the level of our services to citizens when it comes to personal documents. Of course, I don't mind having these topics discussed further. Not only on these topics, I call on all MPs and all MPs that whatever exists in legal solutions, concerning the MUP, you can freely turn around, to share an opinion, to simply exchange views on some issues that might be more perfect. Some of these legal solutions were passed five years ago, some more than five years ago, there are some sublegal acts or I don't know, Todorovic, as it is called, these various regulations and instructions that have been from the time my friend Jojic worked in the police, or in the militia at the time. I mean, there's probably more of them in the whole structure, that security structure, and who knows what other documents have to come up on the agenda, or, for example, nobody's dealt with them. So I invite you to work together on reforming our ministry and police, in terms of these laws that are ahead of us. Whether there is an official proposal or not to amend the law, we are open to any of your positive initiatives and suggestions and to accept it, because these laws are not political. I don't have any political interest here as president of one party to talk about this right now, but to work together in the interests of the citizens. I thank you, of course, that I will always come when you call me, that is, when the law is on the agenda, because I know how upset I am when the ministers don't come to the National Assembly sessions, when I was a National MP. The following year, it will be 20 years since I was in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or in the Federal Assembly, so I have to go to meet that jubilee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-24-0.u55708	Thank you, Minister. We checked out, I welcome you.
