ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64197	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. There are 70 of us based on official records, but we need to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, so please insert identification cards into the unit of the electronic system. Since we're 87 at this point, there are conditions to work. Would one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, like to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Rule 286 of our Rules of Procedure? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64198	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you were absent, you watched Kurosava films in Japan, to inform you that I did not get any explanation for those questions I asked here, where I asked to be explained, but this is not a big problem, it is a normal situation when it comes to the National Assembly, so for today I am authorized on behalf of the SRS to ask for some explanations so that we can carry out the function of the Members of the People's Parliament as successfully as possible and to make the National Assembly respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as best possible. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you had a chance to hear probably yesterday and the day before yesterday, a large bolument gathered in Serbia and said -- Serbs must remove the barricades. You've read it probably. The question is, well, if they remove the barricades, then they'll be dead. These people at the barricades say -- we're not afraid of KFOR or NATO pacts or these terrorists, we're afraid of this government. They say, over the barricades we look enemies face to face and we can go out with them in the end, but their background is dangerous. They're afraid of what the background is, what logistics is. They're expressing their suspicion that by December 9th, this is supposed to be solved by some things that will unwrap. They know about the NATO pact that the enemy, they know about KFOR and this private mission, Boris Tadic called Eulex, they know about 22 EU countries, they know what Angela Merkel said – that you applied for candidacy, shame and either abolish parallel institutions. It turns out that this statement can be used as a sort of trap that the state summit, as you say, invites Serbs to remove barricades and thus prove to Angela Merkel that there are no parallel institutions, but I need to inform you in advance and what if those from Brussels call these pro-European parties and say no, you have to remove the barricades. Then it would be a tactics of quarrels, so rule, then it would be Serbia on Serbs. That's also possible. Do you see how the statements change? They ask that Zumbul, and he says I don't know what I prefer, whether the EU or Kosovo, it's the same as asking me about two sons I prefer. What did you say yesterday? Do you invite Serbs to remove the barricades? I can't say anything, I don't live there, my children don't live there. Well, where do his children live, I guess his children live in Serbia? It's not Senyak, Santa or Kragujevac something outside of Serbia, is it? I'm afraid the owner of Brussels doesn't say, Jacky, come to your feet. You laugh, there are 16 jacks. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I am interested in the government's statement to inform the National Assembly and the public whether they will leave before 9 December or after 9 December who are at the barricades, because this is Angela Merkel's next request, to be informed in time, to inform each other. You know, the Serbs know who's on the other side, when they're on their way, the Serbs are waiting, which is what they say, on their rusty breasts, but what about the backgrounds, what about the Republic of Serbia, with pro-European parties that are in power, so they don't send some units? You'll have to go out to the deleted space to plead. You have to remove the parallel institutions, so go and stop the institutions in Pristina, they're parallel. You do not want to abolish institutions in Pristina, you talk cordially to institutions in Pristina and then sign nothing, but Serbia unilaterally adopts regulations and gives up Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64199	Do any of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, wish to request an explanation or notice? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are now gathered here to discuss some issues that are so irrelevant to Serbia at this point, and we are not discussing these key issues, nor who wants to discuss them. You've heard some debates about Kosovo now. Why not raise some issues that are extremely important to Serbia? The whole world is discussing it at this point, all parliaments, we're the only ones who are passive and we're the only ones who keep quiet. Secondly, Serbia does not know at this time whether it has a government or does not have a government. Does Serbia have a prime minister or no prime minister? Are there any meetings of the Government or are there no meetings of the Government? Are there regulations and phone sessions in this difficult situation for Serbia? I am not just saying the difficult situation because of the situation in Kosovo, and which this government has brought us, with its decisions made without this parliament and in violation of the Constitution and certain applicable laws that have been made in the Republic of Serbia. The government simply does not solve economic problems that are extremely important to Serbia. This government is every day in the campaign and individual leaders of this government or some who are outside the government, but its representatives participate extremely much in the government, run the campaign and keep saying that this government is incompetent, that it is not for anything, that it cannot solve any problems and that it needs to leave as soon as possible. So the question is simple: do we now have a government? Is Serbia a ship floating in the open sea and not knowing where it will break down on some rocks? Who runs this country? We hear sometimes a president who only opens something. This is where the highway is open where the financial structure isn't closed. This is where the highway was opened where there was no international tender for highway construction. Without an international tender, we cannot gain access to any more serious European or global bank to use the funds. This is where we recently heard the Prime Minister tell a series, not to say, nonsense, that all financial structures for corridors have been closed, that investors have been found. Let's just remember, the Gredel tunnel needs to be run for at least four years to end and it's an extremely expensive investment. Here some politicians from the ruling coalition are opening up the subway, without a tender, without anything, taking pictures, the works are starting. This country has simply entered into a total anarchy, where you don't know who's drinking, who's paying, who's making promises, who's opening, who's signing, who's signing. Therefore, please come to your senses and let this Parliament take a certain role, to sort out these members of the government and see if they function, whether they speak among themselves, whether they communicate, whether they are able to solve any problem and to reason with the applicable laws in force in this country. I've never heard of anyone coming out of the world and saying, "We're opening a subway." "There's going to be some suspicious company who bought a factory here and now buys some other companies, etc., without a tender, with nothing." No one knows how much it costs. No one designed it. There's a deal with no project documentation, nothing. It's nowhere in the world, just us. This is where thousands of some agronomists are admitted to a certain, over a youthful cooperative, for two or three months. There's a campaign going on that's more expensive than paying for those agronomies. They're gonna be god-awkin' some counselors somewhere. No one has to say where, how, who's gonna pay them, where these people are gonna sit, who they're gonna communicate with. The village died a long time ago. Therefore, we do not have a government and I would ask the representatives and you, as president of Parliament and all the MPs, that we call this government one day and ask whether it exists, or whether we have it or not. If we do, when she meets, what are those sessions and let's see the government's work report. Now the budget's coming up. How's the budget coming along? Who's preparing the budget? Where's next year's budget coming from? What are these investments that are going to go into the budget? Will this budget provide security to the citizens or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64201	Time. MP Zoran Shami has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's been four months since the agony of the Serb people at KIM, the agony that has reached its most unbearable point in the last floor, I suppose. As a result of one of the wrong, failed policies of this government, as a consequence of a policy that the President of the Republic has been unauthorized, because under the Constitution there is no right, as a consequence of all that has been going on for three and a half years, we have come to where we have come today. In the history of any country, there are difficult situations, situations that require urgent, wise and smart solutions. The most normal thing is to look for these solutions in an institution that is most important in the state, which is this assembly. No one has the deed in mind and no one has the deed to wisdom and no one has the deed to patriotic feelings, but let's finally look ourselves in the eye here once and finally see if there's anything for that unfortunate people on Kim we can do, because his guilt is enormous. These people, imagine, want to live in the country where they were born, they want to live in the country where they nurse children, they want to live in the country where they buried their dead. They want to live in a country where they have their own estates, and we make decisions at the government's telephone sessions, which not only cannot look into the eyes of this assembly, but they must not look at each other's eyes, at the government's telephone sessions that I understand when it comes to whether emergency assistance should be sent to a flooded village, they confirm the decisions and make the regulations that one foreign ministry official, whom the President of the Republic has unauthorizedly sent, brought and which are far-reaching, because de facto means the recognition of KIM. What's that for? For someone to pat you on the shoulder? For winning an EU membership bid? As for shoulder taps, I will remind you that in 1996, the same one that this government has been patting on the shoulder is, quote, that Slobodan Milosevic is a factor of peace and stability in the Balkans, and then three years later, they restarted the story that Slobodan Milosevic, quote, is a Balkan butcher. When it comes to membership, or EU membership, but I underline without setting a date, what does that mean? It doesn't mean anything at all. It's like a top feather from a dead chicken. Turkey has been a candidate for 20 years, a very serious country with 80 million inhabitants. Macedonia, or I apologize, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, so called in Europe, has been a candidate for six years. Does that mean anything to their people? It doesn't mean anything. I should ask a question, but, you know, all the questions have already been asked, as far as the government and the president of the state are concerned. A man can ask questions to people who are responsible for what they do, who have a feeling, if anything, that human feeling that the problem is difficult. So I ask you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. You're the third man in the country. Do you intend on these dramatic occasions, what are you entitled to, call a session of the Assembly, to finally look each other in the eyes and say, each one according to their own wisdom, political determination and all the other human traits, do you have that intention? I ask that your answer has only one word. We told each other everything else, and we told everyone else to this people. Unfortunately, the unfortunate people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64203	Mr Shami, as the first among the equal, respecting the Rules of Procedure and the need for all MPs to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will do everything. You're looking for one word, but simply, you've been talking for six minutes, you've been asking a question for six minutes. I must tell you that I will put every valid initiative on the agenda and it will be declared by the Assembly. Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64204	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all because of the citizens of Serbia who do not have to know some of the things that are being misrepresented here, I have a need to ask a question – did the Constitution change, and thus also the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or Parliament's jurisdiction? Thus, the constitution defined it as the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to create and conduct politics. The continued insistence to take over parliament shows at least two things -- either that the Constitution is not respected and that an institution called the Government is deliberately derivated, and thus the institution of parliament, which is known to be also what its constitutional powers are, or, on the other hand, is prepared not to respect the Constitution. And if the Constitution is not respected in such cardinal matters, I suppose there's a willingness to disrespect it in other elements. To question the government's authority to form a negotiating team and to claim that the negotiating team has formed the President of the Republic, it is deliberate public deception. So, the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to form bodies according to what is part of the government's policy and this is what the government has done in accordance with its constitutional powers and has formed a negotiating team to allow people at the KIM to live normally. Me and probably most of the citizens have almost Googled the need to run some kind of party cheap policy when it comes to big topics. What we cannot Google is the irresponsibility of what time Serbia should now address this issue. What is a request to discuss the subject, we talk several times during the month in this House. Several sessions of the KIM Assembly Committee were on this subject. It was attended by the minister, the head of the negotiating team, and could be attended by any MP who was interested in the topic. At the same time, Thursday, we had a government last Thursday and we could also talk to her about the subject. What's the point of asking the Parliament to discuss in the tide something that's the direct jurisdiction of the government. We can say - we're asking the government to file a report. The government regularly submits a report and the Committee discusses it. The only conclusion, sad, imposed by these demands is that someone thinks that on the subject of Kosovo and this severe tragedy that has been going on for decades, still someone can win someone's soul and voice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64205	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, you have received Dragomir Cimese's resignation as MP in the National Assembly of Serbia and a report from the National Assembly's Administrative Committee on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) of Rule 1 and paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly finds, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time at which it was elected, the MP Dragomir Cimeša, elected from the election list ZES – Boris Tadic, on the date of his resignation, on 30 November 2011. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Esad Djudjevic, Vitomir Mihajlovic and Zoran Nikolic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the light of the search in particulars of 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda, I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Dusan Petrovic, Minister of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management, whom I welcome because he enters with his associates and Dr Zoran Stankovic, Minister of Health, Attendant and Ljubisa Dimitrijevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management, Prof. Dr. Marija Jeftic, Assistant Minister of Health and Vera Depotović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Trade, Forestry and Water Management. We continue our work and move on to a search in the details of the 6th agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE MARKET CONTROL LAW. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dejan Mirović, Zoran Krasic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Vladan Jeremic, Dragan Stevanović, Marina Toman, Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. Report of the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Government's opinion on the amendments was received. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64206	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that you are counting on the time that belongs to the parliamentary group. I'm going to talk a little longer about this amendment, because the sweetening amendment is identical to both Article 3 and Article 5, and it's based on what Mrs. Kolundjia just explained. She Googled the DSS, and the whole of Serbia has Googled EU harmonised standards. Googled by the Serbian people on this corny phrase – the EU, EU standards, etc. Since we have Googled it in the field, let me remind you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that this law is being passed, and it will mostly apply when Serbia joins the EU. That's what you wrote, article 30. It's a bill of law. That's how it's written, there's no need to nod your head. That's how it's written. Read it, you wrote it. So, when Serbia is a full member of the EU in 2389, then some provisions of this law will apply. Now we come to the field of psychicity. The psychic Mr. Petrovic, even more psychic Boris Tadic and the psychic pro-European parties. What are we looking for with the amendment? We're looking for an amendment to what you blew your whistles for, in 1996, you were blowing whistles and banging pots, so in 2000 you were in front of this building, unfortunately you entered the building, you showed up at the pyromaniacs, and it's still not resolved. You know why? Well then there was a steam - Serbia is sacred, Belgrade is sacred. Is that what happened? You were wearing those sheets there -- Belgrade is the world, democracy, etc. etc. What did we propose with the amendment? That the Republic of Serbia is not bound by European Union standards, but by internationally recognised standards. We are members of the United Nations, and that is where international standards apply, thank God we are not members of the European Union, which would be binding on us by their harmonised standards? By the way, to inform you, this "harmonised" mistake has given me this amendment, we have an expert in harmonica Banet Djokic. He's an expert in harmonisation. However, the song has not yet composed the European Union has no alternative. You see how funny that is, the European Union has no alternative. The European Union says – January 15th, they are not sure if they will exist. Since we are at the time of the barricades, Mr Petrovic, you represent here, represent the government and all pro-European parties, you can build on this Zumbul Nikolic, there is no difference in your policy. You said – thank God and he is for the European Union, so you commended him, that's right. There is now a European Union barricade. In Serbia, only in Belgrade is the European Union. She's no longer safe in Brussels. She's not safe in Budapest either. It is kept only in Belgrade, by pro-European parties. You see, the harmonised standards of the European Union, what kind of Bible, that's the Bible. You're about to put it in liturgy, both that morning and that evening. Almost there. You can probably get the priests to sing, too. In liturgy, though, let the patriarch live, you will now say live the President of the European Council Van Ronpei, the Popeye, says, this law comes into force, when - immediately, and when it will be applied - when Serbia becomes a member of the European Union. Mrs. Kolundjia, I've Googled this, the European Union has no alternative and the citizens have Googled it. You're not informed. 80% doesn't want to hear about the European Union. Why? They lost their jobs by European standards, privatization by European standards, they lost their jobs, they have European banks grow them up, they can't live anymore, you know the economy itself, Mrs. Kolundzija, you've put every citizen in charge of 3,000 euros, where is that money? None of them asked the EU or the banks for money. What did you spend, impose debts on them? We have organized crime according to European standards. We have a parade of pride according to European standards. We have a mobing by the Eurospeak standards. We have corruption according to European standards. Do you boast the other day that you adopted 700 European laws here, everything is harmonised, only you can't hear the accordion. You've harmonised everything. I'm just praising the epochal results of the pro-European parties. You've taken care of everything. What else is there to harmonize? There's nothing to harmonize with, you just haven't made any good results. You've ruined everything. There are negative results everywhere according to European standards. Mr. Petrovic, I'd like to ask you to influence that portfolio of yours. He's misinformed. I'll explain to you exactly what this is all about. You made a name, some noise, that December 9th the other day, something decisive. Mr Petrovic, there is an assessment on December 9th whether you have harmonised according to European standards. How should this assessment be? Will Serbia be granted candidate status for the possible start of accession negotiations possibly with the EU if it exists and somewhere in 2389. Your government spokesman says he decides on membership candidate status on December 9th. Not for membership. What you said last time, membership mattered to you in 2389, but we won't exist then. You count membership immediately to get those funds. There aren't any more of those funds. It's melted. Canton invited the citizens of Europe to withdraw the euro, you laughed six months ago, played a match with them. Did you see that? You see, that 27-car composition goes towards the hole, and then one five-mile-long cable goes, so behind the cable is one six-car composition, the last car is Serbia, the fifth car is Kosovo. They count on an independent Kosovo, making two reports, Mr Petrovic, on Monday. One applies to Kosovo and the other concerns the EU. Tell me, how will you apply harmonised EU standards at barricades, how will you do in Pristina? Why did you not adopt a regulation obliging those who are temporary institutions in Pristina to respect the text of the regulation? And it will come into effect when we join the EU, right, under Article 30. A bill of law? Why is it urgent that this law enters into force relatively quickly, and is applied when grapes are born on vervain. It's usually said about this condition. He says, "When will it dawn?" He says when the Germans come or when the Turks come. Serbia never dawned, neither when they were Germans nor when the Turks were here. That's what we've Googled. We've Googled the EU. She's a symbol -- you've got money, you're rich, you've got no money, you've got no money, you've got nothing. You brought your parents in to pay for your kids' tuition. If they don't pay school fees, the kids will be uneducated. Mrs. Kolundjia, we've Googled your statistics, 22,000 people with diplomats can't get a job, they're on the Bureau, and 11 years you're in power. There's been an educational process in your system. You can call on Slobodan Milosevic, you can attack Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, but she burned, she left. You can also attack Mira Markovic, you can attack Bogoljub Karic, you will be with him in the coalition. Why are you going to be in the coalition? Pro-European parties, you must unite. You only have 10% more electoral bodies in Serbia. (President Gordana Komic: National MP, please discuss the subject of the agenda. Your amendment, the word "EU regulation", is replaced by the word "International", so that, from the argument of day-to-day political events, you can return to the amendment you submitted to the bill. ) Mrs. Comic, Serbia is the world, not Serbia's EU. We radicals go wider. This is very tight for you, I'm wrong, I'm narrow. (President: I completely understand that it is difficult for you to respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure and that as an MP you consider it narrow, but that is so, you will have to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, whether it is narrow to you, be broadly, until they change. ) Mrs. Komic, Serbia is a member of the UN. We're bound by these standards. We are not in the EU. You're not well informed. I thought only these were uninformed. Look, you're uninformed, too. We are not bound by EU rules. Those are bad regulations. You see how bad those standards are. You've started to apply them a little bit and look at them, employment, economy, economy, tycoons. Why not apply European standards, that tycoons must pay taxes? You can't, tycoons put you together. Mr Petrovic, we are a member of the UN, thank God we will never be in the EU, nor do they want us and say that. I call on you, Mr Petrovic, since we are collecting petitions with signatures from citizens who clearly want to say – neither do we in the EU, when you are done with this session, please, you can sign that petition at Stefanovic's, at Munjic's, because you share that belief. You probably prefer Serbia than the EU. Well, Serbia can find happiness in Serbia, not in the EU, which goes with that train across Cassandra's bridge, falls into an ambis. Disengage this last Serbian car to save something. Mrs. Comic, I have some urgent state affairs, I have to go to Nis, I'm sorry I'm going to be away today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64207	Eleven minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64208	Of course, we here each time have a face-to-face with our different views, of course, with full respect that a certain number of MPs and your MP group represent a very different view of what should be state policy. I would stay here for a start on this technical part of the issue, because no matter what you think it would be very bad to continue in this direction, I don't think we have a better plan at this point than to go to the EU. With regard to harmonisation of regulations, to make it clear to the public to all participants in this debate, the Market Surveillance Act is a law that, if supported, should facilitate the application of a large number of technical regulations. These technical regulations have established standards by which they should be produced in the future and placed on the market technical products. These standards are in the interest of all of us as consumers, therefore, of all citizens of Serbia. Respect for those standards, that's what we talked about last time, means that when we buy certain technical goods for our money, we'll be protected and we'll have a much less risk of buying non-quality things. That's why this law is good. So, since we are not laying down any standards or standardisation rules by this law, these rules have already been laid down by a large number of other laws, and in these other laws rules rules have been laid down to bring these standards in line with EU rules. I fully respect that these fundamental state things should always be discussed and returned to some laws that had been adopted earlier, but that is simply not the subject today. We are merely creating a framework, a context that, if the law gets support, will allow all these technical regulations to be more easily controlled, so that a country with a smaller spending of money can in one way, which is provided for and established by this law, by doing first and foremost preventive control, to reduce the risk of buying bad goods. It's the beginning and end of the idea and purpose of this law. I think it's legitimate to talk about whether our regulations apply to KIM or not apply and whether it makes sense to pass laws or if it doesn't make sense to pass laws. There is no law, as far as its application to KIM is concerned, any difference from the Law of the Army, the Law of the Ministry of Interior. Of course, it's not sustainable that we don't pass any laws, because we have a problem with the effective application of these laws, because there is a known framework in the UN for KIM to carry out different prerogatives of government, and these are the general known things identified by the UN resolution. I don't think we should be prevented from having any major historical troubles and accidents that we have at KIM that we're sorting our lives the way we think it's most comprehensive and best for our citizens, and of course from, as far as these congregations and governments are concerned, the idea that our regulations apply wherever we can implement them. I think it's always good to have a debate on the EU, why not, but respecting a large number of important facts about having a different problem in our country, and with the number of unemployed, and with the level of our standards, the standards of our citizens. I always call on and appeal that we all see the general economic circumstances in which the whole world is located, not just Europe. I think it is important that people know what it really means for everyone to come closer and join the EU. Since I have used some examples of countries that are now in the EU, their agricultural budget, I will now open up one more thing. We recently completed a study with the Dutch Ministry of Agriculture. Now that study is being translated, so I think it would be extraordinary, and it will be certain that every member of parliament gets that insight, so that we can look at all the potentials. If we are a member of the EU today, here comes the debate on the budget, very soon in parliament, so if we were a member of the EU today, Serbia would get no less than a billion and 600m euros for its agricultural budget. It's important that people know that. It's important that people know that they can measure their decision about what's good for every family in our country and what's not good. The world is not ideal, it has never been, I doubt it will ever be, but our job, this Parliament and the Government that this Parliament has chosen, that we try to create our citizens a life perspective, a perspective for life, a place where every family and every man in this country will be able to fight in the best possible way, that there is as much chance in this fair game of life as possible and that we open up space for our families and our children so that we can live better than we do now, with all the problems the EU has, with great problems and turbulence. Here, Greece again received eight billion euros yesterday so it could overcome its economic woes, aside from those tens of billions of euros they received to stabilise their fiscal problems and debts. Portugal voted yesterday on incredibly sharp laws that introduced savings in the public sector, to reopen its space towards the EU budget, so that with a few dozen billion euros, the budget could intervene, so that they could serve their problems there. So with all the troubles and problems, the EU is one set of solidarity countries struggling in difficult economic opportunities to preserve their citizens a good perspective. I think it's good, and I'm sure we too have to fight to open up the best possible perspective for our citizens under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64209	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Dejan Mirovic submitted an amendment, above all, in order to make the SRS stand that we are not only in favour of harmonising the rules with the EU, but the SRS will never be in favour of Serbia entering the EU, under any conditions. When we said - international regulations, we were primarily referring to co-operation with the Russian Federation. Mr. Minister, you speak very nicely, but reality is quite different. If Serbia were currently in the EU, it would have received a billion and 600 million dinars, but it did not. What are Serbia's options when it comes to agriculture? Huge. Will Serbia join the EU? He won't. You've set an example for the Netherlands. Our surplus of a billion and 200 million dollars will be, hopefully this year, and maybe even more. What's the Dutch surplus? It's just a little bit superficially larger than Serbia's AP Vojvodina. The Dutch came to us to buy land, to take down only a 20-centimeter layer of farmland, to pay the market price, and to after what the ministry would require them to do, whether to forest, whether to water, etc. I also responsibly claim that this was done to give birth to our country, given its quality. Serbs lose about 130m euros a year to implement the Trade Agreement unilaterally. We're the only state with the Russian Federation that has a duty-free relationship. Are we using it? Very little. The SRS believes that much more should be used. When you're in a difficult situation, help is asked of friends, not by enemies. The Russians have shown unequivocally that they are friends of Serbia. I am sure they have an interest in investing in agriculture, even more than you say, that Serbia would have a possible entry into the EU. It's just like those donkeys that ran after carrots all day, and in the evening, they got smurfs. Mr. Minister, you need to invest now, you need to live. The Russian Federation is here and certainly wants to help the Republic of Serbia. I don't think you're using enough of your resources. You tend to talk here about next year's budget. Good Lord, we'll see what your authority is to increase the agricultural budget and we'll have a chance to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64211	It's been used for three minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 5th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't think anyone in this room has drawn such a good line between you and us in politics today, in the projection of the future of this country. It seems to me that no more clear message of hope that Serbia expects if it relys solely on the EU, is sent to the public today, to the citizens, above all, to the farmers, than you did. Before I go back to what you said, there's one thing I'd like to do to fix you technically. Neither is the group of MPs nor, as you said, a number of MPs in this room against the EU today. The only thing that matters is the SRS. That's what we've been promoting and showing for the last 10 years. Each of our incrimination on the burden of this policy has come true and, unfortunately, has been confirmed in our lives. Those who have had problems with this in the SRS, have fallen out of it, you commended them last time, we have also indicated that there is no difference between you in power and them anymore, you promote and advocate the same values, but in these values you cannot recognise the perspective of this country. What kind of message did you send us, Minister? We all die if there is no EU. What does that mean -- if we were here now, we'd have a billion and 600 for agriculture? Should our agriculture live without the EU? There's a difference in concepts, which you don't want to see and recognize your own resources, the ones you see, you didn't put into function in an adequate way. We agree that agriculture can be one of the main momentum. You had a billion euros at your disposal in this and in the previous year, Mr. Minister. Instead of spending it on agriculture, you spent it on the Fiat. You may personally disagree with this concept, perhaps you do not support this project, but as a member of the government and the ruling majority of you have agreed to such a compromise. The SRS believes that even by the overall economic indicators of this country, it was much better if you had invested that money in agriculture in a healthy way, that money would have withdrawn another accompanying industry. The ruling majority is not worth it and you know it very well, because it gives results in the next five, or 10 years, and they would like to trade from today to tomorrow, for elections, ministers. That's all that matters to them. We just heard here, there's a lesson about partying. The product of major partying is this government, of narrow party and political interests, not of state interest. We are all hostages of partying within the ruling majority, perhaps you as a minister. Perhaps you, too, in the budget next year, would spend a lot more money on agriculture, but you will be blackmailed by those who blackmail you because they will not vote for the budget according to the model by which perhaps the largest party in the ruling majority would make it. We cannot live off the mist, from the imagination of the EU. We, by proposing amendments to both this and the previous member of the law, because the reasoning is the same, I will touch both amendments, we have not forbade you, we have not made it impossible for you to comply with the standards of all EU countries. We ask that it be in accordance with international regulations. Why are European regulations not part of international rules? Is that impossible? What's irrational about it? It's nothing. Don't mind me, I'm sorry for your freedom, you've been ill with the EU. Cataract, you don't see in front of you or around you. The EU and the EU. This law is lifeless, Minister. You could've made it a living, you could've followed the concept we suggested. We proposed amendments while it made sense. The EU and the EU. How can you be a law of life? Let one position of this law be applied when we join the EU. That's nonsense. No one's stopping you from promoting your political concept, but you can't edit the state with something that's inconclusive, with something that's never gonna happen. Look what these gentlemen have written - our amendment would not achieve the improvement of these provisions. How did we undermine your need to comply with these standards with EU countries? Where does that say in our amendment? Co-operation with the EU or each country individually within the EU must be part of our international relations. We'll choose who we cooperate with. It is not against those who can export to the EU or any state to do so, if they are financially capacitative, to build standards in their companies. What you said earlier is that we apply and exchange standards with them in products that will be on our market and on their market. You said we'd produce products in accordance with those countries' standards. How many companies today, besides those who came outside, are able to do that? How many unions, bakeries, these or those have asked you to postpone the application of the standards that are valid for your EU? What are they worth to you for exporting to Russia? They're hardly worth anything to you. To export your product to Russia, you must have respected their standards. They're looking for HCC5 and JSSO, and they're looking for something else. We're the most privileged and privileged of them. Why do you restrict us and refer exclusively to EU countries? What right do you do to this people? Why do you impose on the people the wrong truth that our life is only possible with the EU? That's not true. There are countries in the world that do not have any interest in the EU, so they live today in economic expansion, because they are essentially not tied, bureaucratic or financial, to a large extent fiscally with the EU. If it's all so well arranged, where did these problems come from? Where do fiscal deficit problems come from, where do problems with embezzlement, where do public debt problems come from? What burdens them? They are burdened by a total fiscal irresponsibility covered by economic power, on the other hand, but one day it comes at the expense of its military and political power. We can't be the victim and the hostage of that whole story. The SRS has no objection to exports to any meridian. Do you think NATO standards don't affect? You're bored, ma'am, but we live a life that is very difficult. This EU gives you preferences, you're one-fifth of them you can't respect, you've been poisoning this people for 10 years -- the EU. For 4,500, 4,600 products you have privileged export status to the United States. What are you exporting there? What are the problems? You're telling us about the West, Europe and the United States, that's our future, and we need to rely on the perspective that in 100 years we'll be there to get some money from them and raise our agriculture. It is not difficult for ministers to reroute and redistribute funds from the budget, so send them to agriculture instead of Fiat, so send them to rational projects, not political projects. It depends solely on you, and not on the EU, the political environment in which you make decisions and the atmosphere in which you make decisions, and she is sick, she is not healthy and she is not good. It came after 10 years, especially after 2008. You no longer have the credibility to defend the perspective of this country in the EU, and you no longer believe it. This law is completely lifeless. We are not able at this time to meet the standards exclusively with the EU, and so you should write them, and whoever can, bring them into line. Watch out here, as the amendment has been rejected, in an explanation, they are calling for my explanation: "The proposer of this amendment states that a broader standardisation framework and regulations are needed for reasons not only for the exchange of goods to be carried out with EU countries." What do you care what I wrote in the explanation? It's not a normative part of the text, it's not a binding part of the text. I could've prescribed Andersen's fairy tale. You don't care what I wrote. What have I risked your ability to co-operate with the EU and bring standards into line? Nothing, but you are blinded by the EU because those who sit cannot only know the law and the nomotechnics, must be politically written and project this country, which is best for it and most importantly. Do you know how this country would be arranged if it were governed by the arguments that you gave to all the laws you sent to this congregation? They're Andersen's fairy tales. It wouldn't be the G8, but the G9 group, we'd be one of the world's nine most developed states, but that's all that's written in the explanations. Even if you had respected your own laws, the state would have been twice as organized. You didn't respect them or apply them. Minister, your laws are not applicable. One simple thing, go through Serbia this weekend. You know what's most interesting in Serbia now? Pork, there's no yard where a pig of 100 or 200 kilos is not hanged. Now, go through, and you Europeans show these people off. You're going? You're going, that's right, on the day, but don't let God set the inspection. They will apply European standards, so they will ask the host, did you seduce your pet animal before you slaughtered and put it on a cistern? Minister, we can't live in the mist. The Serbian Radical Party has not made it impossible for you to co-operate with the EU and to comply with standards, the SRS has only asked the promoter not to deny us the possibility that this has one broader context of harmonisation with all the international regulations of other countries with which we exchange, unfortunately, very little goods, and we can do a little more. You told the ministers last time, you were talking about investments in Serbia. How much did you project investment at the beginning of this year? You've designed three and a half billion. How far has it been achieved? About a billion and a half have been made. Tell me, what are the investments you're so underprivileged to? An investment by selling a tycoon the largest trade chain in Serbia? Is that something that will bring good to domestic producers? It's not true, it's here to ensure the presence of Belgian, Dutch, Thai goods, because you destroyed our production, but you'll improve their presence here. We're a miserable market for them, but they don't give up on a poor market like this. Why doesn't that make any sense to you when you make decisions? Why don't you do it like that? The second largest part of that investment, do you know what it is? It's where you counted the investments in Fiat. The investments conducted by Fiat, which are the result of loans given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 3/4 guarantees. These are the investments you're boasting about today. Will this create conditions that our manufacturer has standards according to the standards of developed countries in the world? No, that's what we told you last time. It's not in this process that they can go from this, it's to going from base, to going to small and medium-sized enterprises, to seeing their problems, to giving them the money they need to comply with these standards, so that, in accordance with these standards, you can comply with the rules. What does that mean? This, Mr Minister, harmonisation of regulations means meeting the essential requirements of EU directives. Tell me by the number, by the percentage if you can how many producers in Serbia can do it today and what time will the process be to do it? It's impossible, you can't clean fish backwards. You needed a bunch of other things to do, so when the legislative framework you already have gets tight, you do this. This is all bad business. Your policy of European integration, which you spoke of earlier, your political plan has failed. This country is looking for a change in political concept that will respect domestic needs, domestic interests, domestic opportunities above all. This must be the basis for designing the first next budget and policy over the next five and 10 years, respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64213	It's been used 15 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64214	I think it's important that we put the political part of our debate on one side and the technical part on the other side. We will not agree on politics today, as we have not agreed for decades. It is legitimate that the Serbian Radical Party, I said, is a parliamentary group, a technical name for a group of MPs representing a single election list. You have your own policy and you stick to it consistently, as DS, which makes the backbone of this coalition, has its own policy and has stuck to it for decades. We don't agree, we didn't get along 20 years ago, we probably won't get along in the next 20 years. It's a thing that makes up the contents of Serbia's political life, but it's a pair of sleeves. The other pair of sleeves are technical norms. The controversy over whether we should comply with EU rules or harmonize with something that would represent a wider set, even if it is not logically sustainable, because EU rules are unique as far as this aspect is concerned. The European Union primarily makes up the market, and that's when it started living as a coal and steel community, and then it turned into what it is today, which is a single market. One of the essential elements of that common market is the existence of common technical standards. That's one thing, we can harmonize with that, and we can't harmonize with, say, 150 legislation. Every country has some standards and some technical standards, and if we wanted to, we couldn't do that. As for interest, whether this thing is good for the country and for the economy and for the citizens or not, countries that are not in the EU have the EU as the most significant or one of the two most significant trading partners. Russia and China and the United States both have their technical standards, the EU has its own, which means that the existence of these technical standards unique in the EU helps to develop trade and facilitates the ability for companies and investors to set their business policy in a better way in a better way. I think it is quite clear that Serbia has a better chance if our standards are part of a larger context than if they are not. That's why this law is the way it is. Let me do it again. There's no new life situation in this law that can't be stopped. Technical regulations have established the directions for standardisation. We here want to introduce a new system that will allow for less money to better control that system and make love safer than they are now. This isn't about exports. This is a lot more about imports. What standards must the goods that enter this market meet? Whether people who buy goods in Serbia are safe for their money to take good goods or not. I don't see we can have a problem here. When goods on the EU market are exported by Chinese, Russians, Americans, so they will have no problem doing the same thing on the Serbian market, when we fully shape the whole system and bring it to a high level. I don't know why our consumers would be less protected than consumers in Belgium or Portugal. This is a law that is good for people, good for citizens, and on the other hand allows the state to implement a system with less spending money, because it increases the number of preventive controls compared to repressive controls. It's one rational approach and it's a risk assessment. Not to go into further technical details. Now let me go back to this part that is economic-political. We are not in the EU today, so here we are organised in a way that, I think, in the given circumstances, gives an answer to many of the questions Serbia is facing today in a turbulence, in the economic sense of that word, the world. We're increasing our exports. The exports will generally be higher in 2011 than in 2010. With other markets, we are developing very serious co-operation. Our exports to Russia are increasing year by year. Exports of agricultural products and products of the food industry are particularly increasing. In 2011, it will be significantly larger than it was in 2010. Last year we had $135 million, last year 65 million. This year it's going to be way, way over $135 million. We received technical permits from the Russian government and relevant departments in the Russian government to export processed milk, meat processing, and these exports have increased sharply over the past few months. Russia is our great strategic partner, our great friend. There is no question at all whether the co-operation will be brought under question, whether something will change or not. After all, I have never heard of any Russian official or president of Russia or prime minister having any objection to what we are going towards the EU. They're very supportive of us. Each time, President Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin made it very clear that they supported Serbia's convergence and membership in the EU, so that I do not see that neither the Russians nor the Chinese have anything against us entering the EU. He'll have one big friend in the EU. Big friend. As the Russians have an extraordinary friend in Greece who is a member of the NATO Pact. They've got great co-operation. Extraordinary political co-operation. So nothing can be bad for Russia from Serbia entering the EU, those who lead the country and who lead Russia's policy know very well and therefore such politics and water. As far as the investment is concerned. Plans around the world have been revised, but what I said last time I will repeat – Serbia has more investment in 2011 than together Croatia, Slovenia and Bosnia. Croatia and Slovenia have a much higher GDP per capita than Serbia. So we're an investment attractive country than anyone in this part of the world. Is it a good thing Delese came? Well, of course she's okay. I'm not going in now, so we're having a very serious debate with the trade chains now, and that's not the subject of today's debate, we have a very serious debate about a large number of elements related to their business. These things, here's what I'm telling you, these things are gonna be better than they are now. But when you ask the question whether it is good for a respectable global company to invest 900m euros or a billion euros in Serbia in 2011. Well, that's not good, that's extraordinary. It is remarkable because it shows investors are not afraid that at this time of very difficult economic opportunities, when investments in the past year fell from a thousand and five hundred billion to 700 billion. So in the world, this has more than doubled the total investment capacity, that someone has allocated their billion euros and invested in Serbia. He did not go to Bulgaria, neither Greece, nor Croatia, nor Slovenia, but came here to Serbia. The Delese, who has a trade chain in Bulgaria, has a trade chain in Greece, has a trade chain in Romania, has neither gone to Bucharest nor Athens, but has come to Belgrade. Not for the economic stability and reliability of a country's better sign than it is. So anyone who deals with the economy and who tells you, as a doctor, when he takes the blood test, so he watches how many blood cells you have, so he says this is good, so it's good to have someone invest a billion euros in Serbia. I'm not getting into what's going to happen to a Serbian store that can't possibly be in worse shape when Delese comes in, it's going to be better. Is it good enough now? It is not good enough and these things have to be done faster, which is again a matter of consumer protection, the protection of suppliers and the creation of a good, legitimate, decent trade and generally economic environment. As you can see from the basic provisions of life, food prices are dropping and I think we stopped one dramatic trend that we had in the second half of 2010 and the first half of 2011. Anyone who doesn't do this doesn't know how hard it is and how complicated it is. So, the state of things is better today than it was in March. We have entered a good trend and there are no economic reasons for this trend to be changed. So there's no economic reason for the price of basic life-forms to grow, not to go into the details now. And what I've been saying for months I'll tell you right here. If this occurs, the State will apply all legal measures at its disposal to prevent a legitimate achievement of economic interests. We've shown that we've done it so far and we'll do it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64215	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64216	Minister, we need to get into the details. Here's the end of what you just said. Prices are dropping, is that right? You stopped inflation and now tell that other part of the public and the MPs why the Minister? Who puts pressure on prices and inflation? Because you want to talk about it with that logic. The demand is down, Minister. A decline in living standards is the economic logic and economic reality of Serbia. So prices in Serbia stand or fall, inflation stands and does not move as it moves, because the standard of citizens declines. Because the purchasing power of citizens is diminishing, not because you've done something economically epochal good. This is the position of the SRS, check it on the pages of those documents dealing with the economic profession, economic science, analysts, etc. So you'll see what reality is. As for Mr. Minister, the investment you told me about. I don't want to discredit any investors. Essentially, only Miskovic benefits from it. The greatest benefit was Miskovic, to be honest. And thank God if the debt has been settled to the suppliers who supplied these chains. Thank God if that happened, too. If we're going to get a tax on that investment, we'll see. But I would really like that trade chain and trade marks used by a Serbian producer to go to a foreign market but they're not who we are. Unfortunately, we've had a sick import lobby in the last ten years. You know that very well. I'm not burdening you with anything. You know the ministers who were on the payroll of various exporters in Serbia from Slovenia and beyond. Now, if we start with this general political story, that because of this import lobby in Serbia, which will rub hands and because of Delese, of course, we start talking about how much domestic and electronic and this and that production were destroyed, we wouldn't finish until tomorrow. But that's not my goal. The aim of the SRS is to ask you – who will have damage to relations with Russia if we join the EU. What do the Russians care? Well, what harm will they have from it? We will have damage, because the best position in the world that we have in trade relations with them, if you don't use them, we will lose exclusively the political burden. Maybe Putin told you - what do you want, he can tell you what you want? Why would they be bigger Serbs than us Serbs? Why should they fight for our economic interest more than we do in Serbia? That diplomacy doesn't know. We have no problem saying this, but it is Serbia's interest not to lose the best and most privileged relationship with the Russians in this context. Well, that's your biggest motive for investing in Serbia. It was the biggest motive to bring Western, eastern, southern, northern companies to Serbia. To put these resources into operation and to export to Russia, under favourable conditions, politically burdened, that's not what you wanted to do for 10 years. There's a difference between you and us. Which you do not care about the economic political national interest of the state, but worry about European standards. You know, what you just said -- we can't do 150 states, so who's asking you to do it? I ask you, will harmonised standards with the EU apply to our exports with Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, South America, this or those countries. No, I don't. Like they won't do in relation to Russia. We do not defend you, the EU is a market, and it is not disputed to harmonize it, but another must be harmonised. You can't poison the EU anymore, you can't poison the public anymore, you can't. It's unthinkable, unsustainable, and that concept has no more perspective. We have to recognize it as our reality, our dissatisfaction with the SRS and that our perspective is projected according to this fact, because that's the thing that's over. You're talking about consumers, do you really believe this law will improve the position of consumers? You can bring the best stuff here to Serbia, there's nothing to buy it, and then, at the same time, because of the social aspect, you'll close your eyes to the fact that a bofl of goods enters Serbia. We talked about it last time. Last time, because our citizens can't buy goods that are in accordance with standards. Now I'm going to tell you something else, because I'm interested in how you're going to defend yourself with this law? You won't defend yourself because you don't have the political will and the courage to defend yourself against it. How are things with these standards in production and transport to the EU market? There standards change very quickly, so when they adopt a new standard, goods produced by old standards end up in third countries, Serbia, etc. Then your importers you announce will talk about, these big chains, we can't wait to see the outcome of those talks. Then these importers go there, almost at the cost of buying that goods and in Serbia they sell it at regular prices. You know that well, it's something like that before the deadline for a product expires, so they push it at some low price, and then our big investments in terms of the trade chains that raised us, increased our production volume and the number of employees, then they sell it to you a little cheaper, and the people in what state it is, they're forced to buy it. It's our reality, Minister. We're not against standards that provide quality, but it has to be seen in a real and living way, and not in a way of promotion, haze, it just can't. One who can, can, in general, Serbia can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64217	Seven minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64218	Not to spread the controversy, because we're not going to move from the position we're in, but this last thing you said, that doesn't lead to bad coincidences amongst the citizens who are watching and watching us here. I beg you, for every single thing you have evidence for, but for the indication that it's in compliance with any regulations, please provide the information. You can tell me in person, and I'll pass it on to anyone who's in charge of it. There's absolutely no room for us to talk about it, whether the laws are going to be implemented or not, that's not a matter we can talk about, because we can talk about it when we make the constitution whether the law is going to be implemented or not. And that debate can be a joke, it can't be serious. Please provide all the knowledge, all the doubts, all the indications that you have that anyone violates any kind of norm, ususus, regulations, sublegal laws, so that we can take all the necessary measures. I think we have the capacity to in one good way, on a high level, to protect the market and consumers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64219	The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64220	Mr. Minister, as you told Mr. Stevanović, so I tell you about this last thing you said, you say, if there is any indication that anything, if there are legal irregularities, if the law is not respected, etc., and the SRS in continuity warns of genetically modified organisms. The inspection, what you do, do. They can't make it through all the plots, that's a fact, you know that. What's going on with what's not being destroyed? Don't tell me you don't know that when the ransom is over, then the full amount won't be redeemed. Even in the field, they suggested, and because of the great material damage, because of the people in a difficult situation, that the state organizes a buyout in places, that it be processed as biodiesel, by no means. The law is an explicit point. You're buying out at the end of the campaign, Mr. Minister, and you know who's buying it, period. You can't apply double arches. This is not correct for our agricultural producers, and you know very well how it came to our market, who imported what benefits it has, because it is obvious that the election campaign has begun. The URS has set out, one of the main objectives is to invest in agricultural production. Don't, gentlemen, our esteemed agricultural producers, I suppose it's enough for you what Ivana Dulic-Markovic did with agriculture, she imported genetically modified soybean. Everyone today, it would be one of the main goals of the campaign, to advance our agrarian. There have been grants before, Mr. Minister, you say, pre-accession funds, there have been before, you know who shared them, your coalition partner. How? Unserious, irresponsible, without any control, but that's why they knew what they knew best to take a percentage. It's easy for our farmer to choose who he trust and trust in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64221	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64222	Again, without any dilemma, the Law on genetically modified products is clear as day. The debate needs to be run. It is always good to exchange views and there is no one else to this parliament to decide how things will continue in life. As long as the law applies, he will be applied. That's all I said and a few weeks ago, I'll do it again, and now it's time and I'm talking to both the MPs and the citizens who are watching us, and anyone who sows genetically modified fruit material and seeds will be destroyed production. No dilemma, no use for any other purpose. It will be destroyed because it is forbidden in Serbia. As long as I'm the minister, it'll be so because it's my legal obligation and I've issued such a warrant. Anyone of the state institutions does not respect this, that he is under my responsibility, will, as far as his responsibilities are concerned, be severely punished from the domain of my jurisdiction, and I will see to it that other institutions and bodies are conducted as soon and as soon as possible, as it is in my power. So there's no dilemma about it. I'm telling the citizens not to take any advice, they'll take the strictest measures if such material is used in the spring harvest.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64223	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 8 and 8. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64224	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the reasons that the SRS MPs submit this, but also the amendment to the next member of the bill, is what the motionor himself insists on. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of the law, the proposer stated that the analysis of the applicable legal framework found that there was a need to define market surveillance first so that products which could endanger the health and safety of users or otherwise meet the relevant requirements would be withdrawn, prohibited or restricted to placing delivery on the market and that the public and the competent authorities would be informed thereof. So, we see that the motionor himself insists on notifying. The Serbian Radical Party proposed its amendment to Article 8, given that the ministry is responsible for trade affairs to ensure that the public is informed of the existence of the surveillance area and the identity of the market surveillance authority, so that it can be contacted by those authorities, that it is necessary for the market surveillance authorities to report the abovementioned ministry on the areas of surveillance for which they are responsible. Not every citizen is in a position to know what the market inspection, veterinary inspection, phytosanitary care, for which the tasks are competent to protect the environment, the construction inspection of work, the inspection of medicinal products and medical means and other inspections listed in this law and which carry out market surveillance. The obligation to keep the public informed is in charge of trade affairs at the ministry. It's an organ designated to pool the data he's received from other organs. In order for this to be done successfully, we in the SRS felt it necessary for all market surveillance authorities to report on any changes to the ministry. If there was no change in the report, it would simply say they were gone. We see no reason why we do not want to accept the obligation to submit a report during a certain period because the report carries the obligation, while the notifications do not have an obligation. As I said at the outset, one of the reasons for the adoption of the law is the insistence of the promoter on public information, and the reason set out before that is the need for further regulation of the general rules of market surveillance developed in the Republic of Serbia in the direction of proper implementation of technical regulations in line with EU law. This is an inevitable topic, as new conditions, even threats, are constantly coming from this so-called EU. Yesterday we had a chance to hear about the threat of a German defence minister talking about some kind of guilt by the Serbs at KIM. That is another reason why the Serbian government should seriously reconsider its intention to continue its actions towards European integration. No country in Europe had to pay the price required of Serbia for EU accession. What we had the opportunity to hear in one of the previous discussions of Mr. Minister is that Greece has received new financial support, but I don't know why the minister left out to say that Greece has taken another strike, a two-hour general strike. They're not going to run state hospitals, they're not going to work schools, public transport and other services. Two thousand union members announced a strike in front of parliament in Athens. That's the other side of the medal that was mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64225	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64226	Indeed, like all other amendments, we have dealt with this idea of yours. She has good intentions, it's not controversial. It's a matter of technical matter, of nuances. In fact, the system proposed by this law is set so that the essence of coordination is that a large number of state bodies that are taxed must be coordinated. If the law is passed, that coordination will be conducted by the Ministry of Trade. These bodies are equal to each other and the law can establish different obligations, but the legislator has come to the conclusion that there is no need for this kind of formal hierarchy between bodies that have been established at the same level and therefore will not have other ministries and all other state entities report to the Ministry of Trade, but will keep all these relevant things informed. There is one point that is also foreseen by law, which is hierarchical over all the participants in this system, which is the advice that will be educated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there will be appropriate sublaws that will be regulated communication certainly establish and reporting obligations for all in one way or another, probably through the Ministry of Trade, and this sublaw will be regulated. As far as the public is concerned, we also consider the notification to be an adequate formulation for the activity that is being committed to the competent authorities in terms of providing citizens with knowledge of all these important things. It's very important in the whole of this topic that we have timeliness as one significant task. I hope that this will be a significant achievement in life, that we citizens will be informed as soon as possible of everything that can be important when it comes to these matters because the objectives of the law are very high. They are consumer protection, but they are also protection of public interest and in other aspects, from environmental protection to the protection of all those who are employed with regard to their labour rights, security in the work of some other aspects, so we believe that using the term "intelligence" we achieve the purpose of the intensities that the legislator has. We think it's possible to establish a functioning and very efficient and capable system. I think we're on our way to creating a framework for good coordination, so let's get that into life. The deadlines set by law are very strict. I am convinced that if the law is passed and enters into force, all these obligations that are not small, on the contrary, we will also realize that we are very quickly conjecturing, constituting and introducing into life a completely different and new approach which, as I said, will benefit citizens and consumers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64227	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64228	Yes, but the question of responsibility is now being raised here. You say all organs are equal. They are equal, but in law you have defined that the ministry is responsible for trade affairs, a ministry that will unite data. The responsibility lies with the ministry itself, and that is the purpose of this amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64229	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64230	Once again, let me say that above all of these bodies there is a body that will build up the Government by its decision, that is advice, according to that point in the state administration, all participants in this process will have very clear obligations and reporting obligations, so that we think that we have established an adequate system of coordination, or that it will be established if the law is adopted, and also a co-ordinating element exists here, because the government will decide to form a body that will have full control, instruction, giving guidance to this entire system that is being established by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64231	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64232	And this amendment by the SRS Parliament Club has submitted for almost identical reasons as before Article 8. As I have already said, the promoter insists that the public be informed of the withdrawal or ban on the supply of certain products. The part relating to the annual market surveillance programme is important, but we also consider it very important to assess the results of the activities carried out and the market surveillance measures assessed once a year. We feel that it is necessary to inform the public by other means, that it is not enough to publish data on the website. It is true that the Internet is quite useful to us, but it must be borne in mind that many citizens are not in a position to inform themselves in this way, but they are in a position to be informed through newspapers or television, which would publish a statement by one of the authorities of market surveillance. That is why we have proposed that, in some cases, it be necessary to inform the public by other means, rather than simply by putting a notice on its website. We have received the answer that the amendment is rejected, among other things, because the method of publication is required, which means only the web pages, and that there are additional opportunities, prescribed, and that other means are published and not only when necessary. We have proposed to identify situations that are necessary and that some data must be published in other means, as I have already said, this specifically refers to the assessment of the results of the activities carried out and the measures taken, as it may occur that these activities have established that there are products to be withdrawn or banned. This is a law that will be applied by individual members from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. That's what we had a chance to read in Article 30. However, a growing number of Serbian citizens who do not want Serbia to continue the EU accession process are aware that neither the EU wants Serbia. Mr. Minister, you mentioned that at the moment Serbia is an EU member, it would have a billion and 600 euros in investment for the agricultural budget. You know very well that the EU is not interested in the interests of farmers in Serbia. They only need a market where they can place their products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64233	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64234	This is also an amendment which, I'm sure, had an idea to technically advance the law. Here's what we're thinking, which is why we think it's celibate that the text doesn't change. In fact, we agree entirely on the objectives, that it is important that citizens have timely and good information about these things that are important and a report that should be published somewhere at the end of the programme. Given the way our public opinion works and one common flow of things, we are fully convinced that publishing on the web pages is not a matter that will make all these facts easily available to all citizens, since, of course, a large number of people do not use the Internet, but will make it fully accessible in time to all means of public information, which then inform the public. In order to get out of the obligation of one determined cost, because these are not cheap things, to publish, in particular, more extensive materials as an addition to the daily press or via electronic media, since they cost those seconds, we believe that when there is an obligation by the competent state authority to publish an integrated text on its website, that it opens up the possibility of every interested media, and they are more than interested in such things, then they inform citizens through their regular activities, and we are sure that with slightly smaller spending of budgetary resources we will achieve full public information, and then we have left the possibility that, for some reason, this expected development of events does not happen, that we still have the possibility that in a suitable way, means, as in the given circumstances most comprehensive, we will strengthen the public notice of all this. This is a simple matter of assessing what is good and not putting it as strict, because then these are also budgetary obligations, not only are you obliged to do some technical advances, counting on us to act in the spirit of this law the most comprehensive way to save money wherever possible, we opened up the possibility, but we did not establish a commitment in the proposal for this legal text.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64235	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have answered, and I would like to comment on another part or segment of this amendment that my colleague, Lydia Dimitrijevic, has submitted to this amendment. He refers to the principles mentioned in this law. Because of the way it's mentioned, we've asked that Article 4, in this Article 9, it seems to me, deletes. What's this about? A similar amendment is the next amendment of my colleague Vladan Jeremic, so I will look back on him. And he refers to one principle. We didn't make a suggestion like this because we're against the application of certain principles but I think the Ministers think that this, as much as you think these amendments were technical on this and on the next member of the law, you've essentially missed some things. That is why we believe that the law could have been much more content, much more quality, given that it should serve and be in the function of what you are talking about today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? It says here in attitude 4. — market surveillance authorities shall exercise their powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality. That's right. You wrote to me on the basis of the law that this principle was defined by a law governing the position of the government's authority, the State Administration Act. What this member of the law says - proportionality, respect for parties, Article 10: "When they are solving administrative proceedings in taking administrative action, the authorities of the state administration are obliged to use those funds that are most favourable to the party if they achieve the purpose and purpose of the law, etc." We don't mind, but you had to make it clear to the law that the principles of this law were. Why? Because the principle of proportionality in the context of the control of market surveillance standards is something else, and this is what the other ones predicted exactly the documents you're harmonising this with. The principle of proportionality in these documents says it implies an examination of how controlled the entity is able to affect product safety. It's something completely different from what you're talking about. We're not against the principle of proportionality in the State Administration Act, but you had to put it on. The principle of proportionality under the State Administration Act, you refer to other principles. These principles are from completely different things, from completely other documents, from technical regulations, which is the next amendment, Mr. Vladan Jeremic, which says – the principle of evaluation. The principle of evaluation, you write here – since this law supports the application of technical regulations for products, these principles have been established and technical regulations are established as set out in Article 3 of this proposal. These technical regulations are not the state administration law. You have one principle, another principle in completely two different areas of the law. You could, it's no problem to apply the principles, but you had to put that on. When it comes to the principle of proportionality, it is known that the principle of the Law on State Administration, not the law, or documents on the basis of which it is established, or examines the possibility of the person subject to market surveillance to make the product insecure, or to commit a breach. You could explain it, explain it, define it, or indicate it. Not one law has been passed in Serbia by having a second, third or fourth member, so it writes the principles. As much as the government adheres to the principle, it's something else. Here's the Budget System Act. So, the Law on the Budgetary System in Serbia is one of the most important laws. It was brought in to include members who define some principles. The government's lack of respect for principles is something else, but it found it necessary to define some of the principles of the law. That's how they are defined here in the Law on State Administration of Principles. They're clearly defined what they are. Here it is said - the principle of this, and we should dream about what law it applies to. Well, you have a principle of what, so we have to dream of what regulation it refers to, what area, or what matter regulates that principle. I think this is also one proof that the law is done on the surface, that the law is done on a flat-rate basis. Perhaps the intention would be different, but the intention had to be a little more serious and a little different to the paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64237	Five minutes and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Minister Dusan Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64238	Heavy qualifications. I think that's what we talked about last time. The creation of this law was attended by people who are the most called in our country in terms of profession, and as scientific workers deal with this area. We're very pleased, and it's a normal thing, involving people from law school. They've been taking part all along in writing different versions of the law, of course, in writing this final version that you see here. Of course, it doesn't mean by automation that the law is perfect, but the best composition that was in the country at the moment was able to be hired and the ministry asked people to participate in making this text, so that's how it happened. As we have already opened one of these, I would say, legal debate with focus on administrative law, as you can see, in Article 9, it says in this very position – market surveillance authorities are exercising their powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality, which you were talking about. In Article 9. The law on trade states – state authorities and organisations authorised by law and other regulations to adopt acts or take action, restrictions on trade, as well as market surveillance operations are obliged to act in a proportionate manner with regard to the scope, manner, conditions and duration of those restrictions, or the exercise of supervision, for restrictive reasons, i.e. with a view to market surveillance. Our law on which we are now having a debate points to the Trade Act. The law on trade, what you're now saying is a lack, is a defined principle. So, if we are not burdening ourselves now, at least I won't do it anymore, Parliament, it will apply the law, it has a very clear way of saying that this law should interpret and that the authorities that carry out all these activities, take measures under the market surveillance law, have fully defined instruments for interpreting the law that will lead to the proper application of the law. If they do not, there is a court, so the court will give judicial protection and all will have the opportunity to fully exercise their rights. The law is written pedantic. A large number of professional people took part in this. I want to thank them on their behalf for this occasion, giving an answer to this debate of yours, to express my disagreement with your view that this is a business that has been done on the surface.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64239	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64240	The SRS appreciates and appreciates the beginning of your address, when you said that some things, no matter how many professions that it is involved, can't be best. You have indirectly confirmed, Minister, and based on what we have written in the explanation of our amendment and shown through the amendment, that nothing best and good can happen in this country without the SRS. If you want to have something better, you'll have to ask or consult the SRS. What you said at the end, referring to the Law on Trade, could have been sustainable in the Law on Trade, and now I don't have the Law on Trade with me, to write what you said, not proportionally, but that you stated that it was in line with the principles of proportionality, so that there was a continuation of the sentence, and that the law says what the principle of proportionality is. One is the principle of proportionality in trade, the other is the principle of proportionality in the state administration. There must be a clear difference. If you want to convince me now that this principle of proportionality applies to the conduct of the state authorities, is that what you wanted? In market behaviour? Why doesn't it say so? It doesn't say that the principle of proportionality is the law governing the state administration. You have a bunch of laws where the principle of proportionality is defined differently. What you said – relatively from the Law on Trade – is a weak argument. That's not a strong enough argument. We do not dispute the need for the principle of proportionality, but you were obliged to clearly define which principle and from what law and what matters. You could have devoted one member of the law to that, so that the principles discussed by Mr Vladan Jeremic, in Article 10, or the principle of evaluation by that law, as you stated at the end of the law, ministers – this member will apply when we are once "in war" and this member of the law will apply when we are in the EU, etc. You could have written to one member that the principles mentioned in the law in that article refer to the law in this area. Then it would be meaningful and it would be in nomotechnical, legal, political and one practical sense correctly and ultimately correct. Like this, the law remains unspeakable. We have shown you that the law can be better, and in the interest of those who will enforce the law, and in the interest of those whom the law should protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64241	The time used from the time of the authorised representative of the follow-up group is two minutes and 30 seconds. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64242	I fully respect that you have a large number of laws and that it is not easy to get into the details of everything. The agenda of this session is very difficult, and so are the previous ones. I think it's a useful debate, and maybe this looks dry to someone, but it's good to get things out of the way. Article 3 states - the application of this law does not exclude application in other, more specific measures prescribed by law, which regulate the general safety of products. This is now important – i.e. regulations governing inspection supervision in the relevant area. This clearly results and points to the above mentioned and cited Law on Trade and Article 9. This is in a legal-technical sense well given and a well-conceived instrument, that the principle of proportionality that is very important, and now to enter and, as I would say, the legislative and political part, is very important because it reduces the number of interventions that the state should have, with a view to achieving a greater result. So I think we've set the law in a very good way and of course I'm very grateful for this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64243	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. There's a word from MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64244	This change of ours is exactly the continuity of our challenge to the quality of the text of the law. I will read it, for your sake and for the sake of the public and for those who are interested in this law, and the SRS is certainly interested in everything that comes into the Assembly, no matter what kind of relationship it has to the projects. These are market surveillance measures, and here's what the proposer wrote: "If necessary, market surveillance authorities can determine the destruction of products that pose a serious risk or determine how these products will be made unusable". What did the SRS suggest? We suggested this: "When necessary, market surveillance authorities determine the destruction of products that pose a serious risk or determine how these products will be made unusable". Why is this unacceptable for you? Listen to what you wrote: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed provision of the law is formulated in a manner adequate to the rules of general character." It can be, but it doesn't necessarily mean. Why isn't this the general character we suggested? This provision should allow market surveillance authorities to apply measures for the destruction of products. Did we forbid it? And why condicional – if this, then can it do? No, but when there's a problem, he's bound to do it. What's the problem? Are we playing state or are we going to be? Are we going to improve market surveillance or are we going to make equilibrists? So we've made you a very specific suggestion. The conditions were created to move something, when it was created, the market and inspection body defined it and finished the job. What's there to learn now?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64245	Anyone else want a word? He has the word Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64246	We have come to the conclusion that this formulation provides in a good way appropriate instruments to the competent authorities and that it is precisely assessing the risk of certain products being produced not only by using but also by the existence of creating different harmful effects, that it is then open to the possibility that, depending on whether the risk is greater or smaller and whether the harmful facts are such that they require the destruction of the product or are not so, and in some other way, they can be recovered and removed from life and traffic, to open the possibility and that this possibility is just as formulated. I don't think your position is such that he can't defend himself with arguments. We have come to the point that, consistently representing one concept and system where it is necessary to open up the possibility that, with the least possible damage to all transport participants, the consequences are resolved, we create a framework like this, and that this framework contains all the instruments that are necessary to protect the market, on the one hand, and to do the least possible damage. A more rigid provision would lead to the fact that sometimes there must be more damage than real life requires and protection of public interest, as defined and what we have talked about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64247	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Marina Toman, a national envoy, submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) There is a word from the Messenger of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64248	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, counterpart Marina Toman has submitted an amendment to Article 10(7), which says: "If a market surveillance authority determines the withdrawal or withdrawal of products produced in the EU Member State, appropriate economic operators may be informed thereof." But in her correction here she gave, instead of "in an EU Member State" - in another country. I'm interested in this explanation of yours, why is this not accepted? You say that the proposed amendment would be inapplicable while at the same time contradicting the provision of Article 30(1) of this proposal. Mr. Minister, we well know that the perception of the whole story is – preventing bad food from being imported into the Serbian market, i.e. under the authority of certain relevant authorities. I understand you perfectly and your discussion, which you are trying to give answers to our amendments. But we have to tell a story that hasn't touched the period since you're the minister, but we're also talking about the previous period, when it didn't happen or when it didn't exist, or when we even suspect that this law will prevent it. You know very well how those who import food, that is, how that food is produced in EU countries, are not to mention what counterpart Toman said, and in other countries that have nothing to do with the EU. So, we here only legalise or just want to legalise the EU and EU countries, and the rest are not important, whether other countries that are not EU members can import or under which supervision they can import that food. You know well that the market, that market that we are not able to secure today, we are unable to secure our own personal, Serbian market, there we have to be honest, we are talking about imports and I think the biggest shame of this government and this government is that we are importing food and we are producing it. In Serbia, once again I speak, no one must be hungry. In fact, we've been given permission to carry over nine thousand tons of junk meat. We barely took out a thousand. What's he saying? He's saying that in a poorly-led policy in the previous period, we've destroyed our stock fund. The only company that was able to secure milk production is Milker Shabac, because it imported, imported breeding heifers, repromaterials, so that it could produce milk. So, under certain conditions. But understand once again – these same heifers were found in slaughterhouses, even the "Sabar Milkers", because it was all done by one bad state policy and were poor ransom prices and the peasant had to produce his own breeding material, the one who produced it, had to give it to forced slaughter, because he had no receipt to produce further milk. And last time I told you that I was one of the big milk producers, when the price was 20 dinars in 1999 and 2000, and a liter of oil was 23 dinars, and look how long it takes today to give a liter of milk for one liter of oil. There's this perception of the whole story that we're talking about today and that we want to talk about today. You must know that what is on the market today, in shops across Serbia, I would like and wish it was under certain supervision and control. You know it well, and you appeal constantly. Come on, let me know. But believe me, I'm telling you right now, one third of soybean production is genetically modified today in Serbia. All right, you, under your jurisdiction, bring that request that you say - I'll sanction it. It's just like when justice is reformed, and they're passing certain laws, God forbid, how and how they judge and how they judge. It's this relationship that you want now, and I understand you, with your reputation and your authority to prevent it, but it's impossible. First of all, this food produced from modified plants, it cannot provide too much of that quantity, because it cannot be imported at the borders of the seeds that it takes each year in the reproductive chain to be imported, it can only be served for one year. The further income that needs to be provided is reduced, but is applied by peasants because they must, because by applying agrotechnical measures, reduce investment in this production. That's the problem. Therefore, once again I appeal, let us not favour European Union countries in relation to other countries or otherwise, they must all be at the same level, that products outside the EU and EU products must have the same parallel. In the end, I'm going to tell you, as much as you're trying to help, and that's a secondary ceasefire in agriculture, it's very difficult. I told you, you can't slaughter a cow after four or five years to give so much milk in her lactation, it's got to be four or five years. Agriculture has been destroyed and the peasant is the poorest. It's one strategy that's been destroying for the past ten years, but you've destroyed ten years of government by what's called your own production. I must tell you the truth, yesterday I had a chance to meet with a representative from Romania, who represents a seed slave from Japan. I crossed, saying – impossible to have such institutes in Japan. He wants to sell seeds of corn, wheat and all vegetable plants from Japan to Serbia. So, where are we in this chain? Nowhere. We've failed completely, institutes, agricultural cooperatives, etc. Now you're trying certain associations, but that trading lobby has broken us. He destroyed Serbia. Who gives those import permits? Well, certain ministries. I'm not saying give it to you, but certain import ministries that used to give. That's the problem. Now we can lie down, cry, talk as much as we love each other, in one great desire in the election campaign, but know that the peasant has gone to bed and he's gone. The fact that you visited a farm in Slepčević, you saw what it was like, but it's just one farm. It's not just that farmer. There must be 23% of the population. That's what peasants do today. They should live. Look at the migration of the population and what the south of Serbia is like. It's all ruined, not to mention Vojvodina, because what you say has no final product. We can't find our goods. Where did our goods come from? No, I haven't seen her in London, I haven't seen her in Holland, I haven't seen her anywhere in Belgium. He doesn't have our goods. We can't provide for ourselves. You have to understand, whoever wants to place their product or produce it, he wants us to be a monopoliest. I want my goods to be the best, to be best sold, the best quality. It's a market that needs to be secured. But you can't, you understand, because in the dubious state, the entire ministry. The total production of agricultural products is totally in high depth, which will not recover in ten years. I'd like to tell the truth, that it's regenerated in a year, but believe me, that's impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64249	Nine minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64250	Uh, you've opened a lot of questions. There's one previous thing, this law doesn't deal with food and food, it deals with everyone else, but it doesn't. But that doesn't change things, what you said are important things and, more or less, from this aspect it's all arranged by the Food Safety Act and there's a lot of things that matter and that matter. The first is about the essence of your remark, which is shown by the amendment, which is why the notification is made, and if the competent authority assesses that there is a need, it only performs when the products are originating in the EU. It's a technical matter, not political. Not to be notified directly, but to go through the institutions that exist. As you can see here, you've criticised it a lot, but it's a simple mechanism. Until other conditions are met, communication goes through the EU Commission and then through one system that exists, and its aim is to allow rapid communication in case of the identification of certain products to be at risk. As it exists for these non-food, so such a single system, a little different called, exists for all food products. This is one achievement that is very good, as it allows consumers to be informed within the shortest time period that there is a problem or at least a hint of a problem. That is why this is going towards the EU, not other countries, because we simply do not have a mechanism to make communication with other areas that would allow us to achieve this objective. This is the beginning and end of this provision and I hope that, now that one serious structure is formed, at this point the customs union between Russia and Belarus and Kazakhstan is likely to deepen instruments, the institutes of that market, so that somewhere in some foreseeable time it becomes as coherent as the EU is on the other side. I'm sure soon when such mechanisms are created, we'll establish communication with these other mechanisms. It's about the amendment. I wouldn't take too much time to get around this agricultural part of us. You've opened some things, so let me just say that, of course, it's not easy. Who now can be reasonable to say that things are such that everyone is happy and happy? It's our life. But, of course, we can differ in the assessment of one other thing – what was real in this period to make things much better than they are now? We, unfortunately, have lived in the last few years that have produced one fearsome economic turbulence, and I can even use harder words than that. This crisis hasn't been seen since 1929. The Second World War broke out behind that crisis. Now I'm convinced there won't be a big war, but we have as part of our real life a drama that happens in the economy of the most developed part of the world. In these circumstances, Serbia, I will say that again, as I say all the time, has managed to protect its citizens and its economic interests to a great extent. Now that we're not talking about different indicators, I've been talking about some of them, and there we can differ in the assessment of all that, but these are the facts. You were talking about milk, so I'll just say a few sentences. The purchase of milk that milkers will have in 2011 will be greater than the purchase of milk that milkers had in 2010. We're not talking about the total milk production here right now, I'm talking about 55% of the milk sold by the dairy producers. So, more dairy milk will buy this year than last year. And with such an increased ransom, there is an import of raw milk. Our production, which is higher than in 2010, does not meet the needs of the dairy industry, because on the one hand it was placed on the domestic market, and on the other hand it finally started exporting milk from Serbia to a much larger extent than it was the previous year. What is the goal is that in 2012, we have milk production that will fully meet the needs of the processing industry and, of course, this informal market that we all know, that cheese and cream are sold on the markets, that people sell milk and cheese to their neighbours, etc. So, we got into a good trend. Is he expansion? Well, it's not. We did not increase milk production twice compared to 2010, but we increased it and this trend will not stop until 2012 but will continue. What, now that I'm talking about, whatever the budget is, as far as milk production is concerned, all the measures that were applied in 2011 will be in force in 2012. That's very important, and whoever's doing this job knows how important predictability is here because slow cycles are. So there won't be less than five dinars per litre of milk premiums and won't be reduced, as it's called a rhobarb genetic improvement, it's actually a 250-euro, 25,000 dinar, for the throat of cattle. Of course, for those who have four wrapped throats and more, we have to push our farmers towards increasing production. I'm sure in 2012, that's what you were talking about, Mr. Zivanovic, with the import of heifers, with an increase in domestic production, with the final eradication of more that the cattle that should enter the milk production are going to slaughter, because we stopped that trend, that's the most important thing. We enter increased production in 2012 and that is, and it can be a good job, for agricultural producers a very important thing and we do very much. I'm not going to waste time on other things. In the last week, there's been an inspection, not an inspection, but a review, of all the pig farms that can get into serious production, to stop on those farms, to see how much money it takes, to see how much we can figure it all out. So, as far as cattle farming is concerned, we did one big thing, the price of cattle was down, the concentrate was cheaper than it was. First of all, it will be shown in the production of animal meat, after which, in the production of pig meat, then, of course, with this hero. Today, parity is such that there is a profiting ability. We work here a lot with banks to open up the possibility of living so it becomes an adequate stock, that banks can give, that peasants can easily take loans, so they don't have to put mortgages, but they can put stock on their cattle. These are all very important and great things that, I think, open up space for us in 2012 to take advantage of this one good trend we made. As some smart people have said, the hardest thing to do is to move a train from zero to one kilometer an hour, it's a lot harder than one mile an hour. I think we have managed to move this one stenchug and enter into one good trend, and we are here to see that all together in 2012 make the best possible conditions for the business of agriculture and the food industry and that this is a significant contribution to better balances, the overall economic, which the country will have next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64251	National MPs Dragan Stevanovic and Srboljub Zivanovic want a word. Is the order important? National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64252	Thank you. Listen, I'd agree with you in one part of the discussion, but the milk shortage was created, not because of the exports that are present today, and should be present, you know well how much trouble it took for the Shabačka milkmaker to be able to export dairy products to the Russian market, but the problem is that from 9,000 throats slept to one-third, because it's hard to enable that reproduction now to have that dairy production. So it's not. All of what the state has done today to join the union of stella heifers, which in its lactation process will be given in four, five years, but we need to wait four, five years to establish that continuity. You said - we are not in a position today to ensure milk production, but we must import milk from neighbouring countries. That's the problem. I say once again, no one in Serbia should be hungry today. One bread, one liter of milk or half a liter of milk should have every citizen of Serbia. If it's a difficult economic crisis and you say it's 29 years old, so let's all have an early bird, get paid all the same, say 20,000, so all the mouths in this Serbia that are going to eat today, all the mouths want to live today. That's the problem. He can't take a month's salary, it's somebody's salary. Then we can't say that we live in a democratic society. It seems that only the process of democracy in 2000 was – I will tell you what I may not have said in the previous period. It's all based on the process of democratisation. I kept quiet when I couldn't and today I'll keep quiet if I like it. You know, I've also worked as a worker, I've also worked as a director at the mineral fertilizer factory. Where is this factory today? It doesn't exist. She's in that food chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64253	Two minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Please, no matter how much argument on the subject that is not related to the amendment or to the law, be good, that we are still talking about the subject of the agenda. Minister Dusan Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64254	I agree with you completely, and that's why I'm sure next year we won't be importing raw milk, because we're going to increase production. The previous thing is essential, no matter what we import, we will produce more milk in 2011 than in 2010. So, farmers in Serbia will produce more milk than last year. It's a good trend and that's why we'll be able to do it next year, I'm fully convinced, some experts approve it here, get into an increased production that will satisfy both the domestic market and exports. As far as social differences are concerned, I share that finding with you. I don't know if there's a country on the planet today that doesn't have a problem with that. Russia, our great friend and partner, today in Russia are more social differences than before the October Revolution. I know that people who run Russia fight a lot to make things different than they are, but these social differences in Russia are much bigger than in Serbia. It's life. The responsible state is trying to build a system where there can't be a society, there wasn't one in socialism, no social differences, but that what you're talking about, the basic things for every family are being provided. Serbia is a country where there must be no hunger, and I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64255	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64256	Mr. Minister, let Russia solve its social stratification problem as she knows it and can. We have our domestic problems here, which are irresponsible government causes. Russia will solve its problems much easier, as it is 10 times ahead of the annual level of growth compared to the EU. Once again, the SRS reiterates that the Serbian state had to take advantage of this as its developmental chance, i.e. the chance to repair its economic problems. Instead of doing that, we closed our eyes in front of that fact. For ten years, we've been lurking in the fog looking for a market of 450 million people in 27 countries, and only in one Russia, there are 300 million of them, so we don't move on. What do I want to tell you? I have to comment on some things, I'll certainly discuss and about the amendment to the SRS, but all of what you've stated is, in principle, 90% of the stuff, Mr. Minister, depicts interventionism. This is not the result of one strategy and concept, so let's now reap the fruits of some strategy and concepts in the agriculture and livestock sector. All that you do is put out the fires here or there. I'm glad our exports are growing, but our economic situation doesn't show. There's no effect. You go today, every village where you go, people just complain. So, there's a discrap somewhere, there's a vacuum somewhere, we don't know where. One is Serbia you speak of in government sessions here in the Assembly, and the other is Serbia you meet when you leave this building or from Germany 11. It's nice of you to talk about livestock, but some say that our milk production, which depends on it, is at a level from 1910-1911. If you're talking to me about epic successes, don't, please. The other thing is, we don't criticise the crisis. Don't talk to us as representatives of the government about the crisis. We criticise your response to the crisis. In that response, you did not manage properly and we believe that we would meet the challenges of the crisis better than you. We can't talk to ministers about effective measures in a country where one individual on the government's control receives a salary of 600,000 dinars and an average salary of 30,000 dinars. Then the individual says -- we make our own incomes, they're not revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so we can cost the citizens. It's like the National Bank is their private property. They use the state monopoly and receive a salary of half a million dinars, and you as a minister in a very interesting sector know well if those 600,000 were to be divided into ten people, say, that they spent it through basic life supplies and needs, and even goods that are regulated and controlled by this law, they would not be forced to buy an electric apparatus worth 200 dinars, but would buy an apparatus that costs 2,000 dinars, because that apparatus respects standards. Whoever they are, but the standards are, summed up in a product worth 2,000, not 200 dinars. That's what this is about. It's about your concept of which you responded to the challenges. She turned out to be completely missed. You cannot defend your weaknesses with the challenges that the crisis has put before you. That's one thing. The second thing, we discussed here yesterday, we're talking about 13,000, and I apologize for making a digression, but economic problems question the application of this law in an adequate way. This is where the representatives of the Ministry of Health come in and talk about 13,000 people who cost their budget, like they fell out of the sky. They've been produced by someone, they've got bills to make. When it comes to a member of the law, that is, the amendment submitted by Ms Marina Toman. Look what we've written, what you've answered. What you said was contrary to what you wrote in the law, not what we suggested. Namely, Article 10(7) says: "if the market surveillance authority determines the withdrawal or recall", there or you lack the point of the minister, technically it is wrong, or you have to put here - products produced in the EU Member State, "can inform the relevant economic operator at the address listed in the product or in the documentation accompanying that product. "So the recall of the product produced in the EU Member State can be notified. What do we suggest? If the market surveillance authority determines the withdrawal or recall of the product produced in another country, it shall inform the relevant economic operator at the address indicated on the product or in the documentation accompanying the product. Explanation: "the proposed change would be inapplicable". Why? Now, get your norm into a law that you say in the beginning may not apply. Why is it unacceptable for a market authority to notify the person whose product has been withdrawn or recalled? I guess that's normal, I guess. It's a commitment. I placed it in Serbia from Indonesia and that, you pulled my product, and now you have no obligation to inform me or not to be able to. You have to let me know, you have declarations, all possible documents accompanying. And if there isn't, I guess that stuff can't get in there. I guess the goods you've taken from me as a manufacturer, whoever it is, you're obliged to let me know. He can't do it if you can. And if you can't? In one article of the law you wrote – if you are able to provide it, it seems to me that this is how I paraphrasise it, for a perishable slave you will create conditions to protect the slave. If you're able. And if you're not? That's what someone produced. That's what somebody paid for. We don't mind you being sharp and sanctioning, but you have to promote and show responsibility to protect it. You didn't write it right in the law, that's one thing. Secondly, we ask you why this is inapplicable and why products produced in the EU? The biggest problem both the EU and Serbia have with goods from China, right? Take the Rapeks list, as you worship them, Europe, and see which products are the best quality and most represented - Chinese. How will you protect yourself under this law against these products? Why goods produced in the EU, why is this so important? What have we challenged here? We have proposed that you can control both EU goods and goods from any other country and you do not have to wait for Serbia's entry into the EU, which will never happen. That's article 30 you're calling for in your explanation. You don't have to wait for him. We wrote this so that you could immediately apply and oblige the state to notify the one whose goods she pulled or called off about what she did. How will it be controlled according to this slave member who will enter our market until Serbia enters the EU? I guess there's other goods coming in, too, and I guess she should come back and call off the market. It's just that we're not blind in front of our eyes, we think Russia is our strategic interest, but we're not blinded. You are blinded by the EU and the European Commission. Now we are also going to the next amendment that you are informing the EU again, for which it does not have to be written like that. Minister, you say - it would be in conflict with Article 30(1), which says that when you are in the EU, this member will be applied. What until then? We wrote very clearly – if the authority determines the withdrawal of products produced in another country, and in another country it can be both customs and economic union and other countries, whatever you want. Finally, the product coming from the EU does not write Belgium but writes the EU. Only in Serbia is the product that comes from Serbia -- the country of origin of Vojvodina. That's all we have, they don't have it, they respect their obligations and their country, unlike the individuals in this country. Therefore, you have no reason not to accept. It doesn't matter, we didn't reverse the conduct of those who would conduct market surveillance. We made it easy and made the state responsible. It's up to you what you're gonna do and how you're gonna do it. Anyway, I think we'd do better than you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64257	Time was used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group and three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, so it is now available to the parliamentary group for 10 minutes. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64258	I don't have anything new to say. Simply, the EU has set up a system that is both for this type of product and for food products and is a system for rapid alarming and notification of all risky products that can occur on the market. There is a receiver, this is an additional provision that says that if it considers it to be a similar competent authority, it may inform both the manufacturer and the non-constitutional or establish an obligation to do such a thing. On the other hand, this is of course important and important to what you're talking about, that whoever has a problem must have knowledge of it and that the procedure is conducted with persons who have bought this goods in one way or another from foreign producers, less so when goods are widely used and working with distributors. It is the distributor who, in relation to all these procedures, is in the administrative procedure of the party as an importer. Of course, in one way or another, that knowledge will certainly be adequate to the one from whom it has purchased goods from abroad, so here it is, in the context of its sales activity, to inform and draw his attention to adequate or exporting of course or to do whatever their contract determines. For such a situation in industrial products again, those who, as industrialists, bought some sort of equipment that turned out to be a problem will find a way to give them information as part of their contractual obligations and general property rights rules and international trade. Of course, it doesn't matter if it's goods from Germany or from China or if it's from the German state of Africa or wherever. Basically, of course, we will not agree on whether we should conform to the systems that exist in the EU and in this we have different political views. In a technical sense, it is more than useful to me fully convinced that we are entering a elaborate efficient system that works in the EU, which is a system that provides protection, and which is established through a very dissociative apparatus, today, there is, and including one such system, we cannot possibly get into a worse position that those in which we are now, we can only take advantage of all the advantages of this system being in better times and in better circumstances. Once again, let me say this, that this does not affect in any way, essentially, those who are producers of industrial goods and technical goods, because in one way or another, or this is the necessity of life, they will be informed of the fact that their contracting parties will be damaged, if their goods are in opposite regulations or they produce risks and dangers, so it will already be a question of some other procedures and solutions either peacefully, whether through different types of protections that traffic participants provide to each other. As for the response to the crisis, I simply need to answer that question. The numbers are the best picture of reality when we're dealing with serious debates. At this point in our country's banks are saving over seven billion euros. So, at the beginning of the crisis at one point and because of the different messages given by experts, different other public life participants and in a few weeks, nearly a billion euros went from banks, people were scared and withdrew money. Today, there are seven billion euros in foreign exchange savings in banks in Serbia. As the fact that Delese spent a billion euros buying a trade chain here in Serbia, it is a sign of confidence in the system, the market, the country of Serbia. It is also the seven billion euros that citizens have on the preservation of the confidence in the system that exists. Point 1 and point 2. It's not just a picture that's supposed to inspire someone's emotions in one way or another, that we're in a terrible economic turbulence around the world. The fact is, for the first time since 1917, America has received a credit rating downgrade, the first and only time. There is not a single European country, except for Serbia, which was given a three-and-a-half-year increase in credit ratings. So, about the response to the crisis. Do many families not live well? That's right. Is it the most difficult task to find opportunities and space for people to be able to deal with what they know, to do what they have been trained, educated, what are they willing to invest their energy, make their profits and live better? Well, of course, but objective facts and numbers say that regardless of the very serious problems we have in our economy, it is not true that adequate answers to many difficult and painful questions have not been found. I think it's a good idea to have a serious debate about these things all together, because this is not a question of the current position in politics, whether we're in the government or we're in opposition, this is the time when good answers to these open economic issues, open up a big space that in relatively short time, in the next few years, make one serious expansion and serious step, and because of that, I think it's an interest to all of us that things that are good don't reject apriors, rather than support them, so that we can then and what we're criticise, so that it's a weight and that it's understood in the best possible and well-intentioned way, as this debate today truly understands well on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64259	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64260	Mr. Petrovic, you're right when you say numbers are a miracle. The numbers are a miracle, but there are those that statistics mean, so they're real, and the other ones are nominal. They don't follow each other into Serbia. When you say there are seven billion savings in Serbia, which is then shaken by bankers and those who lead monetary policy from the fact that the situation in the EU will lead to the withdrawal of money from Serbia. Then the state of Serbia is completely at peace with the savings. What's that savings guarantee? She doesn't guarantee anything. No monetary stability, and on the other hand, it doesn't matter how much money is in savings, but how much money is under what conditions the banks sold that money.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64261	National MP, no matter how much the rules of the Rules of Procedure have made it possible for both you and the Minister to debate monetary policy against the fiscal and crisis of the euro cannot possibly enter into the provisions of this law, and at the same time with the Rules of Procedure which obliges us to talk about the subject of the agenda. Sure, finish up, but I'm asking you to go back to the agenda after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64262	I'll just be a minute, I'll finish. I just want to tell Mr Petrovic that despite this savings savings in Serbia today, the number of uncharging loans is growing, and he gets one very unpleasant number you've been talking about. Let's not talk about the structure of the loan, what they are, who takes it, and what they pull it for. Therefore, release the numbers and credit ratings. What I'm interested in, as far as this amendment is concerned. You're saying that a distributor, or one who buys goods abroad, will find a way to inform the manufacturer, and what if he doesn't? Who's gonna do it? What's the problem with the state doing that? It does not carry out a market surveillance distributor. Then the manufacturer doesn't matter to you at all. Then you finish the job with the distributor, and what if the distributor isn't in the business? When there is no distributor in that transfer of goods or transit of goods. Then who's gonna keep it up to date? Which is a problem for the state to do if it finds it appropriate. In order to draw on certain rights, the state must also have certain obligations. We are for such a concept of such a state. Work, order and discipline. On the one hand, they're rights, on the other hand they're obligations, there's got to be a balance. That's motive, and I'm only interested in one thing, and you didn't tell me that. Why does a member of the Law, if it is foreseen, say "a product produced in an EU Member State", why does this have to be indicated? This article applies only to products that come only in EU Member States. What's so controversial about standing "in a foreign state"? Both the EU and China are foreign countries. This is written only on EU products, not to mention what this member of the Law will apply only when you join the EU. We have proposed a solution that you can apply today and tomorrow and forever. That is the problem, that you are simply bewitched by the EU without any need and I hope without any perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64263	Three minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, believe me after your discussions and the previous amendment of Mr. Stevanović and these fellow Members of Marine Toman, I listened carefully and I expected you both to accept. In your explanation during the discussion. Obviously, you're an experienced politician, but I think you're using certainly presence today in the National Assembly and defending this law, or amendments to the election campaign. Reality is something else, and you're really affirmative when it comes to our agriculture. In that part, we can agree, but there are things where we really can't agree, and even in your discussions, at a few moments I was in a dilemma whether you read the SRS program when it comes to agrarian. Well, then you go back to something that's primarily recognizable to you, which is that the EU has no alternative, and this kind of reasoning as it is here for this amendment. There are things you've touched, which are certainly true, but your argument wasn't primarily convincing and true. It is that increased exports of milk, but the reason is certainly not in the measures of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Trade. The reason is simple that it was a shortage and that, first of all, they were monopolies, and what the SRS was saying here that Imlek is holding the monopoly, we weren't believed, so later even the DRI found that they were holding the monopoly, and you know it very well. Now I'm going to be far more flexible to say, simply put. No more stuff, they're not that demanding. That was terrible, Mr. Minister. How many bacteria, somatic cells, the hate point, just to take off the price, to take off the price. We were saying that the problem is that there's no independent lab, I hope you'll agree. It is that the pre-election campaign has literally begun and that is certainly what you are using here, which is your legitimate right, but I believe it is our legitimate right to state our position as well. I don't think, first of all, our citizens are going to believe those who held the Ministry of Agriculture, and first of all, I'm thinking about these G17s, now the URS... (President: People's Parliament, please believe that I will stick to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So I'm asking you about the agenda. I don't have any dilemma here, Mrs. Comic... (President: To start a great thing and you can trust the representative of an institution. So, on the subject of the agenda. I have the courage to say it, especially when it comes to me, but good. Mr. Minister, if you've read the SRS program just to start applying it, you'll have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64265	Three minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64266	Mr. Minister, I assume this is the debate today and that we will end and you will give me space to say through the amendment and through one general conclusion that I am, once again, the only one who is in the political sky of Serbia open and clear against Serbia's entry into the EU and the taking of all the procedures and measures that go in that direction and because of KIM, and because of the economic damage that we suffer both in KIM and in Serbia. I think we'd write this law better, more appropriate, and it would be applicable to opportunities, circumstances, the time we live in. As regards this amendment, it refers to Article 13, otherwise Article 13, regulates products that pose a serious risk and their withdrawal, i.e. recalls from the market in Article 2 for which we propose to sound and look different. You say the measures I have been called upon from the 1st position of this member of the ministry are being notified to the European Commission, and then, in the last member of this law, you say that this law will also apply when Serbia joins the EU. I remind you, Serbia will not enter the EU, nor will the EU survive and welcome a time when possibly in 10 or 15, 20 years Serbia could, if it is politically approved and small enough, be ready to join the EU. Therefore, this provision of the law will never be applied. We understand you're following that freak European agenda of yours. What did we suggest? We have suggested that instead of what the European Commission stands for, I apologize, so by the measures laid down in Article 1, "the ministry informs the competent authorities in the country, the origin of the goods". It is applicable to Serbia today, it is applicable to Serbia tomorrow and it can be applicable for Serbia in 150 years, or 200 years. You had no reason not to accept this. You wrote that the amendment is not accepted for a reason, which suggests a way of exchanging information with market surveillance authorities of other countries, outside the established coordination systems for the exchange of such information at international level, which is not enforceable. Once again I ask how you will exchange information with non-EU countries, and until this member is applied, how you will speak to those, or withdraw goods, inform these effective systems of non-member states, to say this rapex, that efficient system as it is called, is no longer relevant. Why didn't you accept a provision that would allow you to apply everything you predicted in this law now, or for what time, until this law was applied. This only confirms one more political acuity, political blindness, and ultimately political ambition or hopelessness. I sincerely hope that the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the upcoming elections will cross with European policy, with a policy which, in its essence, represents nothing, you have helped the citizens to understand, as you understand, so you have led. We believe that everything written in the state as a law can be without a European sound, but you are so, to be effective, to be in the role of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, national, political and economic interests of this country. Who will be the promoter of European politics, Boris Tadic or Tomislav Nikolic, for us, it doesn't matter. The Sundoor of the state is known in both variants, and therefore we call on the public and citizens to make a clear distinction between what has perspective and what in itself has collapsed in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64267	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64268	On this technical part, let me just say something else that I think is very important, and we've talked a lot about that system being one elaborate and one dissuasive system of information on risk products, which can or can produce dangers, that works on the EU market, and we have an idea to become part of that system. Not entering these general rules, about who participates in transport and how these relationships are regulated that produce bonds after different legal relations, what we are putting into this law as a intention and we want to achieve as a real life towards the EU, with other countries it is only possible to make international contracts and there is no dilemma there, for the simple reason why there must be an international public legal basis for this kind of activity that the state would apply. So it's not rational, nor is it justified from the point of view of spending taxpayers' money, that we establish obligations for our country, unless there is reciprocity. Where other countries have an obligation to inform our country and the producers of origin in Serbia, then it is determined by an international legal act, where the consent and will of the two countries is demonstrated, and so it is a context for these things to be done where those who are competent to do so are dealing with foreign trade both in our country and in other countries, they come up with the idea that such relations are being established and I am sure that there will be no problems. That's why I said, what you can see at this point is that a large economic space is being formed in the east of our continent and in Asia, I mean Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, and probably the customs union will include some other countries, it's legal for these mechanisms to exist in the EU, to form there, and I don't see why we wouldn't protect the rights of our consumers, when such mechanisms are built up and when they're real, and at this point there's only on the western side. We want to form all of this in the east as soon as possible, so we're going to enter this kind of relationship with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64269	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovač, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64270	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, associates, ladies and gentlemen, a few MPs, I must stress that it is very interesting that there has been a lot of debate today and it is good to talk about agriculture besides trade, but unlike other situations, we have talked a little bit about the agenda. I would like to remind the public that we are now discussing in detail the proposal for a law on market surveillance and we have come to the final amendment, the amendment proposed by the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. It's interesting that a while ago, a few weeks ago, we had a very similar discussion when I tried to convince Mr. Ciric again, then we discussed the law of public private partnership and concessions, which was proposed by a body that was precisely called the Public Private Partnership Commission. Now, this proposal for a market surveillance law also proposes a single body called the Product Safety Council. This member, to whom we have submitted the amendment, means Article 26, regulates the first composition of that product safety council, including certain tasks of the council. I would just like to stress briefly the importance of this advice that monitors the functioning of communication and co-operation mechanisms between market surveillance authorities and customs authorities, as well as co-operation with other interested parties. The body also proposes recommendations for effective application of the mechanisms. The Authority is considering the report, giving an opinion on the reports of the market surveillance authority, taking corrective measures, coordinating activities. In fact, this body, the Product Safety Council, is proposed to better coordinate in the area of market surveillance. The problem that has arisen with these bodies is a problem that is constantly repeated, which is that this Product Safety Council has a number of members who propose various. Among other things, it is proposed that the member of this body be two representatives of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and of course Vojvodina is completely forgotten this time. So usually in these and similar bodies at least one representative of the AP Vojvodina is proposed, so we insist that it be more, in line with the participation of Vojvodina, both in trade and in Serbia's exports. We know that, according to the Bureau of Statistics, the Republic, Vojvodina accounted for almost 36.6% of exports in the first ten months of this year. This time, it is proposed that they be two representatives of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, as a constructive party, does not want to bring down the whole concept and in this product security council we do not want to change the number of members, we only propose, when you are proposing two representatives of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, that it be one representative of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and one representative of the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce. It's very interesting that the government report has arrived, which I must praise on this technical occasion, because you at least explained why you're refusing us the amendment. You wrote last time because it is not complete, and the amendment is now said to be rejected because representation of representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia is guaranteed and thus the most appropriate expression is the representation of the interest of economic operators with headquarters, i.e. they act in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including businessmen from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. How does representation of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce prove that? According to you, the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce doesn't matter at all, we can close it down. Mr. Minister, I urge you to reconsider. We certainly don't change the concept. If you imagined two representatives of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, why not be one representative of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and another representative of the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64271	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64272	We have a structural problem here. If you had put on the amendment that the AP Vojvodina was giving one representative to the Council of Government, that debate would have been quite different. When you set things up so that instead of representatives of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, two representatives, one representative of the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce and the other of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, one thing is being set up that affects the structure of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Namely, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is an association of chambers. The association includes different chambers of commerce - Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce in various regions, etc., as well as the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce. So, there is no Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce as one parallel association of businessmen in relation to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce is already part of Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. The question arises why not a representative of the Kosovo Chamber of Commerce, why not a representative of Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce. I'm not talking about political connotation here, I'm talking about simple political proposals unless they're based on the logical structure of the topic they're dealing with can cause a problem. Encouraged by your reading of our argument, I had to explain explicitly what this was all about. We, in a little bit, may not have made it clear enough to write this in an explanation. So if a different proposal had been put to amend this member of the law, that debate would have been different, so there would probably be other arguments. At this point, it is not a topic, nor is there a need to discuss it, we would create a rather complicated structural disaster in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I don't mind if the Serbian Chamber of Commerce makes its own internal decision in which she would say that of the two members she proposes, one will be from here, one from here, or whatever formula they make. Why don't we let the Association of Businessmen go? I am sure that the Vojvodina companies have more than enough influence in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce that they are thus and there to fight if they assess from the habitat of their business interests that it is necessary to impose it into the law. So there is no other reason why we refused the amendment, but we simply thought it was not good that we were legally destroying the structure of an institution that is not state-owned, which also has one law on which it is founded and that we would create an imbalance where it does not belong, and that in real life there is no problem that what the intensity of your amendment is achieved in the Chamber of Commerce itself and in the system of the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64273	The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64274	Thank you for your response. I still wonder, when we were in similar situations, and you were a member of the same government who refused our amendment a few weeks ago when we proposed an AP Vojvodina representative, with a reason that these decisions would be made by consensus, so we don't have to, here that government, or you proposed this bill, and by the strong members of the Product Safety Council, you didn't mention the AP Vojvodina anywhere. We were technically looking for an opportunity, and we saw that there were two members at the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and there was the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce. Perhaps we didn't know about these technical details, but does this answer mean that if it is procedurally only possible to submit an amendment or that the parent committee submits an amendment that a representative of Vojvodina will somehow enter this bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64275	I must answer this question before the minister. He'll give, of course, out of his jurisdiction. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the procedure for the submission of amendments, each MP may submit an amendment until the time of the opening of the debate in principle if the draft law is in accordance with an emergency procedure, or five days earlier than the time of the opening of the session if the draft law is in accordance with the ordinary procedure. Once a search has been opened in particular, more than exceptional, it is quite clear that it is only a technical error, there is no business opportunity to submit new amendments or amendments that would significantly alter the content of the amendment. The committee responsible for giving the Assembly a report and an opinion on what it considers to be a bill may do so until the proposal is opened in particular. Of course, I will consult the Secretary-General and Deputy National Assembly with the question, but as far as I know, there is no possibility that amendments can be corrected at this time, so that according to the Rules of Procedure it is possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. This is the amendment that was last searched in order. Before I conclude the search in detail, do I ask anyone who has the right to say a word in a particular search, and before closing, wants to use it right? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64276	Thank you very much. Finally, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in today's debate and the MPs who took part once more to thank and when we talked about the law in principle. I'll ask you to vote for this law. If you give support and this law is passed, we will take a very serious step forward, a step that will lead us to this, because we have made a legal framework for the market surveillance system to become part of our real life. So, the Market Surveillance Act, I'm going to say it one more time, in a better way, organizes, with a little bit of new instruments, already existing systems. We are talking about, above all, the protection of consumers, but also the public interest that is beyond that and the protection of the environment and the protection of labour, the establishment of a safer and safer system when it comes to the use of non-food products. We have a large number of technical standards. We have regulations that these technical standards or procedures for determining them have been established. These regulations have drawn close to the regulations applicable to the most developed markets, and it is good for our country, because we thus protect our market from import products, but we also do one legitimate, good and think in a legitimate direction pressure on our industry, our producers to train products by good standards to provide primarily domestic but also good products, but also enable themselves to increase exports, which, I think, is the economic objective of a very high order, among the highest and most important in our economy. If, once again, you give support to this law, you will open up the possibility of a state apparatus being organised in a good and rational way. This law lays down with very strict deadlines a very high obligation for a large number of ministries and other bodies and organisations to bring their regulations, programmes and all other acts necessary here. So, coordination is the essence that the state in the best possible way in one best way, so to say, the formation occurs in solving this issue, so that in real life with as little budget spending as possible, we can be users of the best situations as citizens, which will say that for our money we can safely or with the slightest risk of not buying good goods, regardless of whether they are domestic or foreign. I think this is another law that also opens up another step towards creating more predictable, safer and better conditions for investors in Serbia, domestic and foreign. To be honest, I don't separate them. It is certain that everyone who invests in our economy is welcome, which is the second and perhaps most important prerequisite for the creation of new jobs and for the creation of basic conditions for improving the standards of our citizens. At the very end, I think this is a good law and I urge you to vote for it. Serbia will be in better shape, as far as regulations are concerned, and I am sure after that and in the realisation of these regulations, we will have a better reality when this law comes into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64277	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes our morning part of the session. On the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I shall give the following notice. The break that will be set will be in a little longer than usual for an hour. Namely, now that I have decided to take a break, the extension of the afternoon will be at 15.00 hours and in the afternoon part of the session we will be doing a search in detail on the proposals for the laws of the agendas 7, 8 and 9, which we have discussed in the context of a joint principled search. If there is a need to work after 18.00 hours and until the search is completed in details of the 9th item of the agenda, and that is how we will do and that will end the session for today. Thank you. I'm setting a 90-minute break. The work continues at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the session in the afternoon search in detail on the 7th item of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON THE ZDRUDNAL IMPROVALITY OF THE PUBLIC, Srdjan Spasojević, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Zoran Popović, Dusanka Plečević, Dobrislav Prelic, Paja Momčev, Radiša Ilic and Zoran Krasić, as well as the Committee on Health and Family. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64279	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, this law on the one hand does not respect the state of Serbia, and on the other hand, the proposal for a health law on the subject of general application should be a roof law in this area. However, the law has many shortcomings. The proposed amendment has tried to make the bill clearer and more precise, in order to protect people's lives and health, as well as protect consumers' interests safer and safer. Article 2 of the proposed law points out that the aim of this law is to ensure a high level of protection of people's lives and health, as well as to protect consumers' interests. We have submitted an amendment to this article with a proposal to replace the word "high" with the word "safe." The government rejected the amendment with a completely confusing explanation. He says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the bill potentiates the health soundness of the subject's general use." What does the government think? Does he think the MPs of the SRS don't know what they're writing or what they're discussing? Only SRS MPs, which is very well heard and seen during the transfer of these sessions, are seriously and in detail reading the proposed laws and we are very well-intentioned to draw attention to all the shortcomings of your laws, in order to protect all citizens of Serbia. The time has shown, and will show, that the MPs of the SRS are right because almost every law that has been passed and adopted in this respected home has experienced very quickly changes and additions or some of them have never even lived. That is why we believe that our amendments need to be read a little more seriously and that when you adopt or do not adopt them, you should not be politically colored. The following text states: "In this sense, the high level of protection of people's life and health includes product safety." Where does that say what high level of protection means? What you wrote in the explanation is only your comments. Then why did you not explain in the proposed law, in article 3, which defines the concepts you used in this law, the meaning of the concept – a high level of protection of people's lives and health? This explanation is completely pointless and unacceptable to us, as well as to Serbian citizens unclearly. We don't question the need to pass this law, but not in this way. We have made it very clear through our amendments that we have expressed our position. We believe that this law has not touched the key problems of the health system at all, not because the MPs of the SRS say so, but because they show statistical and scientific parameters. In his election platform, since 2000, the then DOS, which you belong to, has promised Serbian citizens essential health care reform with a orientation of health services to improve health and disease prevention. None of your promises, 11 years from your coming to power until today, have been fulfilled. Instead of strengthening the nation's biological integrity, Serbia's health is at risk more than 11 years ago. In the mid-80s, Serbia has shown that it is possible to reduce mortality and disease from leading non-infectious diseases that pose the greatest threat to the health of the people of Serbia. Today, Serbia is aheading Europe for the mortality and disease of these same diseases. Instead of dealing with things that are vital, because health is a general social value of particular importance, each government and this one, you are dealing with a law that at this given time is not vital to the citizens of Serbia and is practically not applicable in our circumstances. Stop accepting all EU directives and start addressing the needs and problems of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64280	It was used three minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64281	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent amendment, a school example of a parliamentary amendment for which there is no logical reason to refuse. Either the government officials who have read this amendment have not done their job, or the reason for refusing is that it was proposed by the MP of the SRS. I will only list five examples, five reasons why this amendment should be accepted: first, a high level does not necessarily mean a safe level. That goes for all social areas. A high fence doesn't necessarily mean a safe fence. A high rash doesn't necessarily mean a safe rash. A high level of protection in the control of the health care of products in general use does not necessarily mean a safe level of protection. Laws relating to the protection of human health must provide sufficient, safe, and not a high level of protection. The third reason - the government's solution has not defined what is a high level of protection. In this law, it's about defined as a free judicial belief in football -- whether Ronaldo was an offside or not, did Messie commit a violation or not? The next reason - a term proposed by Gordana Paunovic is more linguistic and logical and adequate than the term proposed by the government. I'm asking the minister to read the amendment and the legal solution, and he'll see that what I'm saying is perfectly logical. The ultimate argument, the ultimate reason why the amendment should be accepted, is that it is in line with EU rules. The material that the government delivered to us is one solid book that has 290 pages. Of these 290 pages, the text of the law is 16 pages and 263 pages is a declaration of compliance with EU rules. So, you're calling for EU standards, and that's your right, that's your political definition, you've tortured government officials to compare these powerful provisions with European Union regulations, you've tortured them to draw and fill in a total of 65 meters of tables, I've calculated correctly, when this goes on to each other, 65 meters of tables, and then you refuse to accept an SRS amendment that improves the text of the law, which is much more logical and which is more consistent with EU regulations. Therefore, I urge the minister to accept Mrs. Paunovic's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64282	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, women employed in the public services of the local government of Petrovac at Mlava, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Attending are: Daniela Santakovic-Radulović, Vedrana Babić, Drinka Leljević, Dragica Mihajlović-Vojinović, Davorka Knežević, Tanja Gligorovska, Daniela Kostić-Ugrinović, Daniela Lazić, Desanka Denić, Radica Vassiljevic, Dragana Stanojlović, Jadranka Cvetković, Anita Nikolić, Sanja Balabanovic, Blagica Tomić, Svetlana Milivojevic, Jelena Milivojevic, Marija Rodajevic, Mira Ranković, Jasmina Gavrilović and with them Duško Stevanovic. Please welcome our dear guests. We're going back to work. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64283	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 3. The draft health law of the subject-matter of the general application regulates the question of what is meant by the subject of general application. Among other things, you state that these are: dishes, accessories, devices, packaging and other materials that come into contact with food, in accordance with the law governing food safety. Afterwards, children's toys and articles intended for children and children, cosmetic products, objects that come into direct contact with skin or mucous membranes, face and body decorations, for piercing and imitation jewelry. With my amendment, I asked for this member to be extended to the new point 5, which would cover the items most commonly used in the household. The group includes: bed covers of various materials, microwave ovens, shaving machines and mobile phones. The reason for not accepting the amendment is ultimately incorrect. You claim that in the cases of general use which you have stated are covered and the items listed in the text of the amendment. That's just not true. On the other hand, are objects for piercing and imitation jewelry objects that are more commonly used in general use than blankets, microwave ovens, shaving machines or perhaps mobile phones? The aim of this law is to ensure a high level of protection of people's life and health and to protect consumers' interests. You well know how many items and appliances I have listed in the amendment are harmful, but you must not install them into the law because 90% of these items and appliances come from the EU. This means that the EU is more important to you than the health of our citizens. Because of the public and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose health you need to worry about, I will list some items and appliances and say how harmful these appliances are. Now that the number of mobile phones in the world has crossed the number of 820 million, the public has been discreetly told about how dangerous their use is for human health. The principle of mobile phone operation, as well as most wireless devices, is based on the transmission of microwaves of the same frequency. These microwaves in the human brain, as well as on its surface, cause so-called. hot spots where fever has a killer effect on cells. With the constant passing of electromagnetic waves through the brain, even when we don't talk by cell phone, there's cell damage. Swedish scientist Life Salford has publicly warned that mobile phones are by now the largest biological experiment on human beings and that a whole generation of young people, who use it mass, could develop mental disorders or Alzheimer's disease by the age of medium. (President: Please don't disturb the speaker.) I am distracted by Milivojević, and you do not warn him. On the same principle, microwaves, which caused a kind of boom in the market, are also working on the same principle, but very harmful radiation was soon observed that these appliances emit as an altered taste of prepared food. By heating food in a microwave oven, new compounds are created, unnatural compounds in various foods that can act very harmful to those who eat them. It is certain that all that is not found in natural food is foreign to our organism and that it could cause life process disorders in our body. Many researchers argue that despite the high standard of technical protection, microwave ovens can produce waste radiation. If the door to the microwave oven does not breathe well, there is a leak of microwaves that are very harmful to our health. Harmful radiation, even within the limits allowed, causes changes in behavior, immune, nervous, and hormonal systems. Special danger threatens the users of the songmakers. What to say for textile products, bedding blankets, blankets, pillows, and jubeans sold by multi-leaving system. These products are sold by house at some night sessions, similar to how individual sects do it, and out of each control related to regularity. Such products may often have materials harmful to human health. The Grimpis organisation recently revealed that in the clothes of 14 top manufacturers, traces of toxic chemicals were found harmful to the natural environment and human health. Two-thirds of the manufacturer's clothing samples, such as "Adidas", "Kelvin Klein", "Lakost", "Puma", "Nik" and others, found traces of nomyl-phenol chemicals. In addition to being toxic, nomyl-phenol, it has a feature of the imitation of female hormones, which can change sexual development and affect the reproductive system of humans. The very fact that their regularity is not controlled increases the risk to human health and life. You should accept this amendment, because it is products that are not only in general use, but are in mass use. If these products are included in other products, as you stated in the explanation, then only some of those listed in Article 3 should be apostrophe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64284	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64285	President of the Assembly, I have signed up to speak on behalf of Mr. Zoran Popovic, and you have not registered it. I ask you to include it in my time of authorized representative, so there is no confusion, like when we spoke in principle, when you included my time at the time of the parliamentary group. So, this amendment, submitted by Mr Zoran Popovic, is expanding the list of products of general use, which are subject to health control. There are a number of items used in the household, which is now listed by counterpart Popovic. The reason for not accepting this amendment is indeed contradictory of what we heard from the minister in the principle debate. It is explained that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of Article 3. The draft law also covers certain items of general application in a broader sense, which includes the items listed in the text of the amendment. In the principle debate, I also talked about a mobile phone, about what counterpart Zoran Popovic said, which is the subject not only of general use but also of mass use and should be subject to health control of regularity due to the broadcasting of radio waves harmful to human health. Besides cell phones, there are other wireless devices that pose a danger to human health, because they contain metals such as arsenic, Germanium, paladia, mercury, lead, cobalt and others. That is why these devices, even when they are not used, and they are located in the household, when they are invalid, should be provided from the fracture, the operation of heat, before they are delayed to place for disposal of electronic waste when the system of organised collection of these products is established in Serbia. In a principle debate, Minister Stankovic said the mobile phone is not the subject of general use but of a technical device. I don't dispute that it's a technical device, but that doesn't exclude the fact that it's in general use, Mr. Minister. If you do not consider the technical device an object of general use, will you then pass a health law on technical devices? Or perhaps within a few months you will send this law to the assembly procedure for the completion and usually the members of the laws to which the opposition had the most objections and the most amendments. We know that the use of mobile appliances, microwaves, wireless computers, TV cameras and similar appliances, over a long period of time can cause, because of the waves they emit, can cause a series of diseases, which of course I spoke more about in the principle debate. For example, microwave ovens in America have been declared one of the cause of breast cancer, since they are often placed in a household at the height of the breast. Bedding blankets, clothing, shoes can also contain some substances that are harmful to human health. World clothing producers have also been known to withdraw their products from traffic because they are suspected of having adverse effects on human health. Since the aim of the law is to ensure a high level of protection of the environment and human health, as well as the interests of consumers, as stated in Article 2 of this proposal, then you should also include these items in Article 3. It's a bill of law. If, in your reasons for not accepting the amendment, you have said that the items listed in the text of the amendment are also covered by the subject of general application in a broader sense, then it is absolutely unnecessary to list only certain items in Article 3. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64286	Thank you for letting me know what time you want me to count on. Every time you do, I will, of course, respect what you say. I can't know what you're thinking if you don't say. When reporting for amendments, it is common not to be of the time foreseen for you as a representative of the parliamentary group. So you must always tell me that. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic, who wants a word. Now you're speaking from the time of the group or do you want to go back to the time of the authorised representative? Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64287	I've been speaking again since the time of the authorized representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64288	I'd just like to say it's not common, but, of course, I'm giving you that opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64289	Yeah, but I've got my two minutes on the amendment, and the rest of the time I'm gonna spend is the time of an authorised representative, that's what I meant. I have submitted to Article 7 on the subject matter of general use a medically incorrect amendment that a new point 3) is added in item 1 of point 2) which reads: "If it contains nanoparticles of organic or inorganic origin, harmful to human health or nanoparticles whose fact is unknown", existing points 3) to 8 becomes points 4) to 9). We live in a century of new technologies that make progress and progress in people's lives, such nanotechnology, the key technology in the 20th century. Since this bill does not mention any danger from the use of nanotechnology, I will, for the sake of Serbian citizens, present some more known facts regarding the use, especially through the abuse of nanotechnology. This technology controls and manipulates matter at molecular and atomic levels, and the size of the particle is measured by nanometers. Just to remind you, one nano is a billionth of a meter, which corresponds to the size of a cell or some of its parts, like DNA. Nano particles can serve as a matrix in which an active substance is inserted and they have the ability to alter the properties of the matter they carry. That's it, for example. The crystals of some material, when reduced to these dimensions, can serve various purposes, for which they would otherwise not be suitable. So they have the ability to change the behavior of particles that they bond with and thus create new materials with new features that can be usefully used. That's the kind of benefit, for example. we have in medicine or in pharmacies, when polymers, such as polylactide or polyglycolide, are used as carriers of substances, i.e. medicines for treatment. It is a modern and acknowledgeable method of treating some diseases when constant or periodic presence of a drug in the body is necessary. Nano particle, with which the medicine is in its matrix, interacts with the cell and under certain conditions, external or internal, releases the active substance, so that the purpose of this treatment is to achieve an effective concentration of the drug for a longer period of time. In addition to medicine, nano technology is also used in the production of general uses, such as cosmetic preparations, bed linen, jewelry, sports equipment, clothing, disinfectants, detergents, soaps, home appliances, paints and varnishes, etc., as well as in the food industry. In the food packaging, e.g. nanoparticles containing silver increase the duration of foods by liberating ions of silver that act bactericidally from them. Nano silver is also used in soaps and detergents for long-term antibacterial protection. However, other than being able to be in the service of health, these particles can also cause health damage. Inhaling nanoparticles, e.g. in the production of an object without adequate protection, it causes damage to the lungs. These particles penetrate the body’s defensive barriers, except by inhaling and through contact with damaged skin or food intake. Once they enter the organism, it's impossible to remove them. There have been cases of fatalities in China, when victims work without adequate protection in a nano-technology factory. The introduction of new technologies in the production of objects of general use has raised concerns about how dangerous nanoparticles are applied directly to the skin or through the skin into the organism. In cosmetics, for example, sunscreens, which contain a protective factor or creams against aging of the skin, introduce nanoparticles of metal oxides that easily penetrate the skin cells in laboratory conditions and can damage its DNA. Years later, they can be the cause of the disease. This particularly applies to young skin, also to old and damaged skin that easily absorbs nanoparticles of titaniumdioxide and zinc oxides that contain many sunbathing agents. New technologies were always in front of their control system as a rule. Thus, a product was withdrawn from the market when it was subsequently found to be harmful to health. This technology has been used in the world for more than 40 years. The establishment of a system of regulation and the mechanism of control of nano-products is necessary if we seek to protect health and protect the environment. I believe that this bill must contain a provision relating to nanoparticles in general use cases, especially as there is one large regulatory gap in the treatment of this matter. Personally, I think we should pass a special law, a comprehensive one, that would regulate this area. This regulatory gap is used by large companies, which is why we have an increasingly frequent occurrence of these particles being inserted into general applications, especially those whose fact is unknown, which is why they should be considered medically invalid. Manufacturers should place on their products a label indicating that they contain nanoparticles and are bound by the law. European Parliament rules on food safety e.g. ask the manufacturer to clearly indicate on their products that they contain nanoparticles if they have them. Of course, no one advocates rejecting the use of nanoparticles and nanotechnology in general, because of the unsuspecting potential of use, unlimited application, due to a new economic revolution that will bring about in all sectors of the economy, which is already foreseen for 2015, but the fact that we have come into the situation from the time of the appearance of genetically modified organisms, genetically modified seeds and crops, and that we need to seriously tackle the health dimension of nanotechnology. You did not accept the amendment and you wrote: "for the reasons for the provision of Article 7(4). The bill also refers to products, i.e. ingredients obtained by nanotechnology." This is what it says at this point 4: "if it contains substances or ingredients that are not allowed or if it contains them in an illicit amount which may adversely affect human health". If it implies that this also applies to nanotechnology, which is not mentioned anywhere in the law, then it is too much of a general use in Article 3. It's a bill of law. Therefore, all who come into contact with skin and mucous membranes may be considered objects of general use. What does your argument mean – if it contains substances or ingredients that are not allowed? It can be a wide range of various substances, from biological, chemical, organic, inorganic dust, and who knows what can fall under the notion of illicit matter. The amendment defines which matter is specifically meant. In that sense, there can be no doubt when a clear provision is incorporated into the law. Nano particles and nanotechnology as the main technology of this and the next centuries cannot be placed under other materials and ingredients, especially as appropriate technology and expertise is required for their identification. Nano particles and nanotechnology abuses must be given a place that deserves the possible consequences of human health. After all, top scientists agree that because of the unsuspecting possibilities of nanotechnology, things in the "little world" behave completely different from those "in the great world" and that the growing gap of science and ethics between the scientific, research spirit and the evil spirit of manipulators and powerful men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64290	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which is certainly not accepted. We didn't expect it, since it's about the nukes and something where the SRS is principled. First of all, I'm thinking about everything that's happened to us, when it comes to your friends, since 1999, and since the bombing of our country. We must be careful, certainly, since this bill comes from the kitchen of the ministry, the political party has led for nine years and we know what we have suffered and what we have come across, what health problems in the previous period. Let's not talk, Mr. Minister, about getting the vaccine and everything else that's connected to that ministry, under the leadership of this new political party trying to change the name of our citizens. Certainly, the SRS cannot support, above all, this suicidal and sick ambition that the EU has no alternative, that some things simply cannot be forgotten, that someone who has done so much evil to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia simply cannot go beyond that. The United States and NATO have solved the pact and found ways to free nuclear waste. By unloading on the territory of our country and in many other countries ammunition with impoverished uranium. Such fate, unfortunately, took place alongside Serbia both Iraq and Afghanistan, and in turn other countries. During the 78 days of NATO aggression, forces bombed 112 times the territory of the former SRJ with ammunition containing poor uranium. 91 locations, i.e. one in Montenegro, were contaminated nine in close Serbia, while 81 seats were poisoned on KIM territory. Let me just point out that all the bombings were made under the so-called so-called. 44 parallels. In the territory of our southern province, more than nine tonnes of impoverished uranium were left, and more than a ton of nuclear waste was left in Serbia. Of course we can't support something like that. I'd ask you what kind of control you have when it comes to our southern province? You know that's where Bonstille is, U.S. base. The trafficking of human organs, suspected of being the villain of Thaci, has been greatly assisted by Bonstille, that they had apparatus there, that is, all medically needed at that point in time to remove human organs. Serbia has no control there, but I must remind you that Bonstil has far greater meaning than it allegedly has in regional importance. In fact, the point is not to allow Serbia to draw closer to Serbia. I must remind you that the United States bombed Vietnam with an orange agent. You know that absolutely total vegetation has been destroyed, but it's not just about vegetation, it's about naked land. The consequences were only later, when children with malformations were born, and the fact is that since 1999 there have been many cancer patients. It's a simple bombing and our enemies we can never forgive, not follow their sick ambition. We see what's happening today at KIM, that simply this government has no solution and that it agrees absolutely to everything. We fear that if there is no significant change in Serbia soon, above all, a change in state policy, that in these 11 years, all that has been done is that if it continues, it will only be written here in the Republic of Serbia, that we will simply disappear and that it will be written and that there will be one sign on which to write here was once the country of Serbia, which was sold by its own government and destroyed its people. The SRS will never and under any conditions be neither for the EU nor for the NATO Pact. We will never give up, first of all, on the idea of great Serbia and Serbian nationalism. I think you've accepted one responsibility, given your career and reputation, that you didn't need it at all, but you're certainly defending these laws now, too, but I hope you won't be able to put the government together by order of the EU and the United States. You literally cannot resist the EU or NATO pact. I just don't know if there's anything you won't agree to. Is there anything you won't agree to? This is really just amazing and statements by the president himself, yesterday, where he called KFOR not to bomb, not to attack our people, and he also calls on our people to get off the barricades. I must remind you that since KFOR came that 1,000 Serbian victims...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64292	Would you mind sticking to the subject? I understand your need to condemn those to whom you are not aware that you are not the most angry, you and the greater opponents of politics. But I don't want you to be me, and neither is the position to talk about it right now, but I'm obliged to remind you, first of all, that you can't abuse the debate on the amendments so that you can put it out by who knows what time today is the political attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64293	I'm sure Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic and you don't think so, but as a doctor, I think you're aware of the consequences of NATO bombing, but good. I'm saying, we'll never be in the ashes and for us your friends will never be our friends, and I hope this was the last time you've been able to fool our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64294	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64295	Madam President, Your Honor, Mr Minister, I did not understand very well what the amendment here refers to on the draft health law of the subject of general use, but when I heard the explanation I am absolutely certain that your proposal is not the clearest meaning of the amendment, and I therefore believe that it should be rejected. Of course, we as a state and as a responsible government, first of all, towards the citizens who elected us, and also to those citizens who did not vote for us, will take care of the health care of the subject from the general use. When we're even talking about that citizen care, first of all, I have to tell you that you're a great health minister. I can't share that opinion with anyone who criticises the law dares to criticize you. Whether because of anything you've done in the past, whether because of what you're doing now or because of what you're going to do in the future, because I think you'd be a great minister in every government, you're doing a job that's in the interest of the citizens of this country. When we talk about these laws that we pass, it's the Law on the Health Rightness of General Use, we don't pass those laws because one of us is asking from the EU, Brussels, The Hague, Amsterdam. We are passing these laws because we think they are good for our citizens, we are doing it without running to Europe, to reach someone, we are doing it because we believe that these European laws, European standards are currently the greatest civilizational range and greatest civilization achievement. We are doing this because we believe that when we meet these standards on Serbian citizens, they will be determined whether they want to go to the EU or not. They'll be the ones to give the last word. But until all the conditions are obtained for citizens to give their word, it is up to us to make Serbia a civilized society where people will enjoy those blessed civilizations that enjoy and members of other peoples in the 21st century in Europe, in which we, unfortunately, only belong geographically. Politically not yet. When we make, when we pass these laws, when we create them, when we work on bringing them here in this room, we build a staircase towards that EU. When we build that staircase towards the EU, we're not the only ones who want to go. The benefits of this law will also be enjoyed by those who are loudly criticizing those laws. The benefits of these laws will be enjoyed by all citizens of this country. We're not leaving anyone out of those civilization ranges. Now that we're making those stairs. You know, there's all kinds of stairs. There are ordinary stairs, here as we enter the Assembly, and there are those moving stairs. You know, it's interesting when you watch Serbs on moving stairs abroad. Everyone stands up like those citizens on the right, left for those who are in a hurry. We're in a hurry right now with those escalators. Unfortunately, there are people who have stopped there just to drive, and some of them are coming down the stairs and we're going to take them to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64296	Mr. Milivojevic, I assume you've been provoked by previous discussions, so you're moving a little bit away from the subject, I understand that that's your answer to the previous discussions, but I'd like to ask you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64297	So you have people driving on moving stairs, you have people walking down moving stairs, you have people going in the opposite direction of moving stairs. I am absolutely convinced that in the end, we will all, together, come to a goal called, organized democratic society with all the benefits that would allow a normal person to live normally, and live at this point hard, not only in Serbia, everywhere in Europe, but of course I have this optimism that all difficulties will end and that we will live better. So I ask you to continue this noble work to improve and modernise Serbia, which is once not easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64298	I thank you, and I pray we stick to the subject. Mr. Dusan Maric says he's not well understood. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64299	As for the previous discussion, I quote the previous speaker – I cannot accept that someone who criticises the law uses the debate to criticise the government. That's exactly what you said. It's okay, Minister. It's okay. It's okay. We're told exactly the power, we can look at the stenogram. So if the laws are bad, if the bill is bad, who should be criticised? We should criticise whoever proposes the law. According to our legislation, the law proposes power, or government, or minister. We have no one else to criticize if we do not agree with legal solutions, with the proposed legal solutions. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64300	Okay, so the laws can be proposed by us MPs. That's not true, all that's suggested is put on the agenda, and the Assembly decides, when you're not there at all when you decide on the work of the agenda. So you're not here when the agenda is adopted, and you could make a contribution. You can't just administratively send the laws and not participate in the work, so you're gone. Please don't come with me. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, so let's finish this cycle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64301	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, is working the truth for citizens who are following the transmission and for girls who are very neat and carefully keeping stenographic notes, I said that I cannot accept that someone is criticising you, Mr. Minister, not the government. There is this difference between you and the authorities in one letter but I was thinking about the criticism of your past work, because what a man does in life always stands with him, especially if it is a professionally accomplished individual, a professional who has always been at the service of the Serbian people, the citizens of this country, in the most terrible and difficult places and that job has done responsible, safe, noble and ultimately very professionally and without any stamp of shame on his career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64302	Pursuant to Rule 157 of Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64303	For the sake of the public, and for the sake of the truth, as the previous speaker pointed out, I would like to say, or to quote the previous speaker – that the democratic society that he is seeking and the DS he belongs to has the aim that all MPs in this assembly have the right to speak freely, have the right to speak their mind, and have the right to both the opposition to criticise both the government and the government, as well as the competent ministers. I don't think that's out of the context of democratic society and that we should all strive for it, and we as the SRS are always fighting for it in this House, and we never get angry at the objections you make to our account. I will now move on to this amendment that we wanted to specify what the Government of the Republic of Serbia stated in Article 8(2) and as regards the health minister's competence in declaring the subject of general use. The amendment tried to make Article 8. clearer and more concrete. We believe that what is written in the bill is not clear to the one who suggested it, let alone the one who reads this law. For the sake of the public, I will read how the Government proposed Article 8(2). – "The Minister responsible for Health Affairs prescribes a manner of declaration, content of the declaration and marking of the subject of general use in relation to all elements of health and health statements closer to the conditions of declaration and marking of the subject-matter of general use." As you can see, this part of the law and this Article 8 is rather vague, chaotic, but what is important is within the standards and regulations imposed by the EU. The parliamentary group, by its amendment, tried to present with a very simple solution the health minister's competences related to the general application of the declaration. In this bill, we consider ourselves to be excessive powers of the minister and as far as I am concerned, in 13, 14 members of this law, which is one third, literally this law has 52 members, mentioning the powers of the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health also has the obligation to prescribe sublaws, so that the essence of this bill can happen in some members of the amendments, as is very often the case with various regulations. The Serbian Radical Party also believes that the bill is essentially not good, because the proposed solution will not provide rational and effective supervision of law enforcement, as well as the placing on the market of only health-corrected items of general use. Mr. Stankovic, you know well as a professor and a doctor, and you are familiar with the fact that in Serbia there is an increasing incidence of allergic diseases associated with human exposure, especially children of different plastic or polymer matter that releases additives of toxic character, such as phthalates. I, as proud and happy, have a healthy and beautiful granddaughter, and I am very often in specialized shops that sell children's toys. Unfortunately, I have noticed that there is no declaration on all items or on all children's toys, although under this applicable law on the health regularity of life supplies and items of general use, because it is a legal obligation. This is particularly important, since small concentrations of phthalate can lead to inflammation of the airways, especially in small children, or children. Also, what's very problematic is those items for packing food. In some supermarkets there are items that are used to pack food, however, as far as I've looked, and I've been trying lately, since this law is in the process, to look at the items that are used to pack food and what is seen, it's that there's a declaration, but there's no declaration for the items that are used to pack food, there's already a declaration for food that's packed in those items. In this way, a huge mistake is being made, Serbian citizens are being deceived, and what is worst, citizens' health is at stake. So it's not good that there's no relevant declaration on every subject of general use. We want to protect the health of Serbian citizens, especially children, and we believe that what was given in the Health Protection Law proposal and on the health regularity of the subject of general use is not good. Whether this will otherwise undermine Serbia's health care level to improve, and I'm afraid it won't. The state of Serbia without a clear health policy with inadequate laws is facing an extremely difficult health situation and insignificant that anything can be done in the direction of changing this state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64304	I need to tell you to the doctor that Serbia is doing a lot of work on health care, and above all thanks to our colleagues and our associates who are the most qualitative part of society. Marko Milenkovic called, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64305	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment by Parliament of Parliament Dr Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic should be accepted, as it places the obligation and authority of the Ministry of Health on the closer regulation of the conditions on the declaration and marking of the subject of general use. Your ministry and you, Mr. Minister, are in charge of implementing, or not implementing a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the establishment of a general hospital in Prokuplje, because the real nonsense is the fact that Dinic Dragan, in the Bridegroom, is the director of a health center, who, after a deobic balance with a home of health, does not exist anymore, but was due to be reregistered to the General Hospital on 14 August. Since it is widely known that Serbian radicals always speak in the language of fact, today's decision to establish a general hospital in Prokuplje, the government's decision made on June 30th 2011, and published in the "Official Messenger" on July 6th of that year, was to enter into force on July 14th, which means that the government was obliged to appoint a VD director of the General Hospital in Prokuplje by August 14th. In addition, the head of Toplico County and four county presidents, however, one Nebojsa Milosavljevic, has been removed in the meantime, because he illegally seized the parliamentary mandates in SO Blace, the SRS, taking away all five and assigning them to people excluded from the SRS, because they promised obedience, that they would vote for his shift after two months, but they did not deserve anything else. I will not enter these party and inter-party conflicts of government in Prokuplje, because we all care about the legal and regular functioning of health institutions both in Prokuplje and in Serbia, and this amendment applies exclusively to supervision, control, jurisdiction of rights and obligations. I don't think it can be explained for not accepting this amendment to say that this amendment cannot be adopted, because the Bill on State Administration contains this proposed formulation of yours. I mean, and I hope that you will agree with me, too, that the Law on State Administration can't be any closer to determining matter on the health care of the subject of general use than whether I am the Law on the Health Rightness of the subject of general use. The same Dinić Dragan, now at large, against whom a criminal report was filed, of course, the presumption of innocence by law and there is, apparently aware of his work, he is in the circle of the health center, the non-existent health center, whose and how the existing director, built a church and now there are different opinions in the Cup. Some think that he needs a church nearby to repent his sins more easily, while the other part of the population in Prokuplje thinks it's because of the choices that are approaching, because what a political future he will soon be able to do only at church maintenance. I think that the minister should absolutely be familiar with the dramatic, critical and catastrophic situation at the health center and that the sooner he reacts, because no one is intended to put our citizens' health care aside. Today it is easier to separate this Dinić from food, water and bread than from a functional chair. In addition, he worked by hiring doctors and nurses for two months, but by being paid in two months, in two months he worked for free...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64306	However, I must ask you and remind you, colleague, that you have suggested that a formulation stand: the Ministry of Health Regulations closer to the conditions of declaration and marking of the subject of general use. You were talking all the time about a human resources solution in Prokuplje in a health care facility. I'd really like to ask you to return to your agenda. I understand that you have a need and something to say, but you've been saying something all along that has absolutely nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64307	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic, for your tolerance. I took advantage of the minister's presence, and in addition all the time my discussion of the basic idea of leadership, i.e. the laif motive was to place the authority and obligation of the Ministry of Health, which is also the explanation of this amendment, so broadly, I think, and you will agree, that I was right. Besides, this amendment isn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64308	You were wrong at all. You have an institute to ask government members questions, when it's perfectly appropriate to ask that question we're talking about right now. Now I ask that indeed, MPs and all present, not just you, focus a little on the subject of today's work because of the importance of the topic. It is indeed important amendments and important legislation, and I think that citizens deserve to be paid attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64309	All right, I have concised my discussion on the sole purpose, to convince the minister to accept Dr Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic's extraordinary amendment and to make the regular state of the hospital in Prokuplje as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64310	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64311	Of course, it is sometimes necessary to take advantage of the presence of a minister who is not often with MPs. It is often in the Committee on Health, but not with all MPs, because our restrictive Rules of Procedure does not allow anyone who has something to ask the Minister of Health to turn up. My amendment is...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64312	However, I must say that Mr. MP was not at the time when he was due to ask this question, and that was the last Thursday of the month. He wasn't in the O.R. I understand that you need your party comrades and members of your parliamentary group to support you, but it wouldn't be bad if you had a little objectivity for you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64313	It's because of the objectivity that the Rules of Procedure doesn't have enough time for anyone to ask a question, so it was my intervention. By the way, I've submitted an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law prohibiting the regulation of medicinal product characteristics of general use. My amendment refers to paragraph 2 and I propose that it be changed and said: advertising, advertising and placing on the market of objects of general use is prohibited in a way that leads consumers astray about the quality, properties or purposes of these products. I think this amendment is more concise and simple than suggested. General use objects cannot be used unless they have the properties to recommend them. This amendment has been submitted to make the law clear and without excess words. You replied that the amendment would not be accepted for the reason that the formulation in the bill is in accordance with the Law on Advertising "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 73/05. You did not list members of the advertising law you are calling for, and that law has a total of 111 members. After all, a precise, precise and unequivocal formulation cannot be contrary to the Advertising Act. The refusal of the amendments only continues one senseless rigidity of the Ministry of Health compared to the proposals coming from the SRS parliamentary group. Therefore, your argument is purely political and has nothing to do with the law you are referring to. For the purposes of Article 9(3), the following definitions shall apply: The bill says that the law governing the terms and manner of advertising applies to advertising of general use, then the first two positions are unnecessary. It makes no sense to separate the terms and conditions of advertising of general use in even three positions, if the provisions of the Advertising Act are to be applied. If you have not already accepted the amendment to this article as a brief, clear and clear formulation, you should have completely deleted the first two positions of Article 9. It's a bill of law. We from the SRS are not surprised at the volunteerism, inaccuracy, the use of inadequate expressions, the wrong context and other forms of twisting and degradation of Serbian language by the ruling regime and which you build into laws, but when it comes to citizens' health, we cannot help but warn about these phenomena. Why is it so difficult, Minister, to accept a better amendment solution than offered? This is one of the solutions that this law leads to those stairs that go up higher, unlike some that take the stairs that lead to higher, walking down the lower. I think it's a good amendment and there's no reason not to accept it. It was clear to us when he was health minister Tomica Milosavljevic why he did not accept amendments coming from the SRS, but this practice continues and you accept only amendments coming from the G17 Plus party. This is a good amendment, and I think you should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64314	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64315	Article 12 is located in the part of the law which speaks of the obligations and responsibilities of the entities in the operation of the case of general use. The amendment refers to paragraph 1 and I propose amending it, so that the amendment should read: "The subject in the business of general use is obliged to suspend the production or transport of objects of general use when establishing its health failure, and the natural person registered for the provision of services, using the general use items, is required to suspend its use when suspected of its health failure and to inform the Ministry of Health control". This amendment is more comprehensive because it includes both natural persons and persons as entities in business, handling general uses, such as, say, beauty salons, hair salons, massage salons, piercing and tattoo salons, covered by obligations and responsibilities. You did not accept this amendment with an explanation that the solution given in the draft law was more comprehensive. This is quite an insubstantial explanation because it cannot be more celery something that is more constrained by a provision than a more comprehensive solution. Physical persons are also subjects in the subject of general use, such as cosmetics, hairdressers and the like. In cosmetic salons, facial and non-medical treatments are performed, using various cosmetic products. These products are designed to protect the skin or mucous membranes, or are intended for a limited duration of action. When a cosmetologist or a hairdresser uses some preparation for a longer period, he can detect or suspect its failure. Long-term use of hair paint, which contains substances for which manufacturers have no evidence of their safety, can cause skin damage, including cancer. This also happens in a new, insufficiently tested product, which can cause side effects on human health. Recently, a text has been published in the press that caused anxiety among hair dye users. It's about a person who just after applying hair dye got a strong allergy and fell into a coma. Before that, there was a 17-year-old death case, also after using hair dye. Both of these cases were recorded in England. This is due to the substance "pfd", i.e. paraphenol ediamine. He blames himself for causing an allergic reaction. This compound is located in most hair dyes, which is sold with us. Otherwise, this substance is banned in Germany, Sweden and France. The cosmetic industry earns 2.6m euros annually. A few years ago, the national consumer organisation of Serbia initiated an inspection of perfumeries, pharmacies, a cosmetics store with competent institutions, with the aim of withdrawing from use preparations containing substances that could be harmful to health. To this end, a positive list of chemical substances that are absolutely beneficial for human health has been established. Incorrect products must be withdrawn from the market if the subject in the traffic of the case notices or suspects in its failure. I'm going to mention an example of canned food as a potential botulist challenger, due to inadequately processed cans. For example, fish cans or cans of peas can be the most common cause of this disease. It is recognized by the bloating of a can that is ideal for the development of anaerobic bacteria "costrium botulinum" that creates neurotoxins because there is no oxygen in the can. These toxins paralyze the body muscles of a man and give a number of other symptoms. Otherwise, this toxin is used as a very loose and for cosmetic purposes to correct facial wrinkles. We do not allow this treatment in aesthetics, but Botulin is used only in some branches of medicine, for therapeutic purposes. Why do you think that only manufacturers and traders have to take care of the health regularity of the subject of general use? Are cosmetics, hairdressers and other natural persons providing services, using these items, not responsible if the customer is treated with medically incorrect items of general use? It is natural that users of general use must reject a medically invalid case and warn the supplier and the inspector. You had to accept this amendment. The reason for not accepting the truth does not correspond to the truth, since you have left out a number of groups of entities in business for general use, and these are natural persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64316	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Did you make the most of the time? Then you don't have that time anymore, and you have 47.5 minutes in total. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64317	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 13 speaks of a case when a product that is not healthy appears on the market. According to the Serbian government's proposal, distributors and traders are obliged to inform the consumer about this failure. The problem is that the government does not define in any way, and everything that is not clearly defined, especially when it comes to the law, can lead to different interpretations and abuses, which can ultimately have consequences for the health of the population. It could be the health of five consumers, and it could be 5,000 or when it comes to mobile phones, let's say five million people. In order to avoid this, the SRS proposed that the law clearly define that manufacturers, distributors and traders commit to inform consumers and the public through public information, that not only those consumers who bought the product, but also those consumers who might buy it, would be aware that the product is harmful. No other efficient notification method exists. In order for this government solution to be applied in practice, do you know what would have to happen? It would have to happen that every trader records every buyer who enters his shop, writes his name and last name, writes down what product he bought, writes down his address, and if it is subsequently found that the product is incorrect, then asks him to notify him by written or other means. Do you know what will happen if our amendment is not accepted, and indeed a product appears, say, a product of broad use, which distributes some of the powerful companies? Do you think they'll let the public know? Of course not. They will look to keep quiet about it, to make it publicly available, and for these reasons, it is good that the government has understood the essence of the amendment and accepted the amendment of Mr. Paia Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64318	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a RIK report on the election of a MP to fill the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Stanko Jovcic, elected from the election list ZES – Boris Tadic. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Stanko Jovcic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I wish him successful work. We're going back to work. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 26 of this bill, which says that after the word "correction" is put on hold and the words are added: "when an entity in the business of general use of the suspect in the medical correctness of the case". You could have accepted this amendment, Mr. Minister, because it would have really contributed to the improvement of this member. I'll explain why. The amendment that I have made to Article 26 alone aims to ensure that the subject's safety is used in general, I mean here on health care, raises it to a higher level. This Article 26 is referred to in the eighth section, titled “Inspectional Sampling”. The inspection service is the main factor that depends on the degree of health regularity of the product, with which we as citizens come daily into contact. In Article 26, you stated when the inspector is obliged to conduct the sampling of the subject of general use, so you say in point 1. – when suspected of their health status or when unable to check health care correctly in another way. First of all, when you say the subject of general use, you don't mean two, three or ten items here. It's thousands of items. Therefore, the possibility of observing all products, importers, distributors, manufacturers with such a legal solution is in some way limited. Why do you always wait for the intervention of an inspection that should first come into the situation to suspect the medical correctness of the subject's general use to respond? When we proposed to amend this Article 1 to allow inspection of the cause of the subject to general use, and when the subject in the business of the subject to general use of the suspect in their health care, we had in mind that the inspection made it easier to operate and simplify the procedure that some other laws had already regulated. So, in a process that starts from the manufacturer to the moment when the product reaches the consumer, several entities occur that can, on the basis of looks or perhaps smells, assume themselves that there is something wrong with the product and then inform the inspection, that it will exercise control. Subjects in this process have an interest in the inspection reacting, for the simple reason that they give money for these products, pay for transport, storage, etc. The next day, they will be at a loss due to the untimely intervention of the inspection as a state authority. That is why we have proposed an amendment, to allow the entities that are part of the general use process to be involved in the idea of this law itself, which is the health correctness of the subject of general use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64320	The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42 of the amendment, National MP Pai Momchilov submitted. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 47th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word has a health minister, Professor Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64321	Given that the arguments given in the text are very detailed and get into their consideration and repeat them without need, at least I think so. When things come out here, I say again, they have to be argued and they have some reference, especially when it comes to professional matters. Unfortunately, the fact is that many try and use some terms and sources that are not verified in scientific and professional institutions. So, for the public who's following the Assembly, I'll say a few things. When it comes to members or amendments, so when it comes to a list of all the appliances, whether these are the means of general use or are apparatus, and when it's intended to indicate their harmfulness, such as mobile phones, ovens, etc., I mean that, say, you have a hair dryer that has an extremely strong magnetic field, and whose use could at the same time be disputable. When it's said that no one's controlling, I'd just like to list a few details about these things, about control. So, in a period of one. 01 to 31. 12. In 2010, health and general use controls from imports were carried out in the following volume: 36,154 items, total controlled types of objects of general use of 118,880, or weight per kilograms of 387,520,433 kilograms, of which imports were authorised in kilograms for 387,512,495 kilograms and prohibited in kilograms of 79,338 items. I would not like to further elaborate on some things, especially when it comes to, say, language provisions, since I am a man from the area where we are said to be using only two crashes, but when it is said to be specifically quoted by Article 8, where it is said by the promoter why the amendment was rejected, the proposed amendment reads - the Ministry of Health Affairs Regulations closer terms on the declaration and marking of the subject of general use, and the proposal is that the minister, Dr. Paunovic, does not prescribe medicines for patients' psychiatric clinics, but medicines are prescribed by Dr. Paunovic. That's the basic difference. Therefore, someone in the ministry should prescribe, the ministry will not prescribe. The secretary of state, the assistant minister, will be prescribed by someone. So when we talk about it, then we have to be a little more specific. Secondly, since the General Hospital in Prokuplje is mentioned and trying to say – the Ministry of Health does not care – and who has filed a criminal report? It was submitted by the Ministry of Health on the basis of a health inspection. There's more stuff in there. But who's proposing his shift now, and how does he propose it? It's proposed by a man they've replaced themselves. So let's see what this is about. Do you have any idea what that man did for a medical center in Prokuplje or not? Here, I'll send you a flyer as it looked, everything he did at that time when he was admitted to that hospital and what she looks like today. So, it's going to be a mistake, but don't make certain things potent that aren't potential. Dr. Plecevic, you said not to accept your amendments. That's not true. We accepted the 42nd amendment from Dr. Momchilov. When you start writing quality amendments, there will be more entries. Speaking of which, seven more amendments have been accepted from the NS parliamentary group. I believe that you can do much better, and I believe that you will make better amendments, especially Maric, he must have learned that on Kupres, at the time we were, until today. In the end, it would be too much to take on all the questions, since I see that we have made a good law that will certainly have a supplement in some future time. We do not say that this is a sacred letter and that what is like the American Constitution – once brought and to this day does not change. But at the same time, life will give us some obligations to supplement and change that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64322	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Paunovic wanted a replica, but there is no reason, the minister only responded to your comments. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BIOCID PRODUCTS You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milorad Krstin, Dobrislav Prelic and Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. You've also received the Government's opinion on these amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, just when I read the explanation, Mr. Minister, I didn't understand why you didn't accept this amendment, but it's never too late. You put it this way in your explanation, i.e. The Government - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the obligation to supply data is set out in Article 37. The Biocidal Products Act, the "Official Messenger" etc., etc., says – among the data required to be supplied in accordance with the cited provision are data which can be classified as confidential. Namely, in that original Biocidal Products Act, that is Article 30, paragraph 4, which says – the requirement of Article 1 of this Article can be submitted by a foreign producer through a representative, or representation based in the Republic of Serbia. If that's so confidential, it can't stand the word "can." Mr. Minister, there must be a word: "he's bound." It continues in your argument - the foreign producer has no choice whether to supply confidential information or not. So there's no choice. If he doesn't have a choice, he's bound to do it. Or, you say, it can -- it can only happen again, the word "can" in your explanation, to choose the ways in which it will deliver them to the Chemical Agency. Further - these data are necessary in the decision-making process on a request for a temporary authorisation, and the foreign producer, again, stands the word "can", can deliver them directly to the Chemical Agency or via a representative. Don't, please, for something that's classified as saying "can." No, if it's classified, it means it's mandatory. Believe me, Minister, I see no reason why this amendment of mine would not be accepted. It is proven on the basis of the government's argument, and based on its submission, that the word "can" should be changed in the word "mandatory", because in your explanation they say it is a confidential document of material. Don't do anything that's classified not to make it mandatory, but it can. I can go, and I can't go. There's no way I can go here, I can go there. So the law is decadent and that's why you've suffered these changes. Here, you see, now, that no one has submitted, as he has submitted, we have submitted and you see that we are submitting amendments that will absolutely improve these changes and supplement the Biocidal Products Act. Since my colleagues don't have much time yet, Mr. Minister, you and I have stopped at that poor uranium. You remember that you explained and said that I was delivering some incorrect data, spreading alarming news. Well, the impoverished uranium was made in 1999 in the territory of Serbia, especially Kosovo and Metohija, the southern part of Serbia and, as you say, is not in Vojvodina. It's located, you have the data, at 91 locations. You have all the data, but I just need to remind you, Novi Sad is in Vojvodina, Serbia's Vojvodina, Novi Sad has a suburb called Shanghai, which is bombed. Then we have this Shanghai that had millions and millions of gallons of oil, oil derivatives, and it was shot at with low-enriched uranium missiles. Where is Batajnica, where is Pančevo and Fruska Gore? It's the Duke's. I asked you one more thing, what is it, Mr. Minister, with the Jugormedia Grainian? What about Zemun's Galenic? What about "Serb"? See why Jugormedia is in the situation it's in right now. These are the inscriptions in the paper, not by Milorad Krstin. He says so – Croatian businessman Luka Rajic starts producing drugs in Zrenjanin in the spring, the factory is near the end. The title is this: "With In Honey, there's a spoon in honey." It says – the Croatian pharmaceutical company "Farmes", owned by one of the biggest Croatian businessmen, Luka Rajic, will start producing medicines in suitable accommodations in the "Baglješ" grain industrial zone by the middle of next year. In the Farms, they stress that they are not afraid of competition, since they will operate in a city where there is already a drug factory called Jugormedia. Then why the Croatian company in the town of Begej? Rajic, namely, established co-operation with Belgrade-based In Med company, which started building a drug factory in the "Baglješ" industrial zone in Zrenjanin in 2008. By the way, this Mr. Lukic in Serbia is known as the owner of the "Dukata" from the "Sombolda" in Sombor. It is not without reason that "Yugormedia" is brought into a difficult situation, that workers simply don't get paid in time, and it is a drug factory well known for the drugs that were only produced in "Yugormedia" and produced. Those drugs are now in storage, they can't be distributed, and one of the reasons I'd like you to reassure me, is this firm that I've been talking about. I'm sorry, I'm not really wearing red yet, he says. Todoric pulled his leg. The largest Croatian tycoon arrived before Rajic in Zrenjanin, Ivica Todorovic, who bought the "Diamant" oil factory. Is it possible, Mr. Minister, that the "Yugormedia" should be shut down and that this Croatian firm "Farmes" is already built, it will start, it will work, and to shut down a well-known and recognized one, not to say worldly, but a European drug factory? That is why my question was asked – is it possible that Croatian tycoons are taking over our primate and even in medicine? Just give me a drug company that left Serbia and bought a factory in Croatia. Tell me, I don't know personally, I apologize, Mr. Minister, if I'm not informed, I hope so, but you tell me one of the factories your tycoon bought, went to Croatia and bought a Croatian drug factory. We are taking little care of the citizens of Serbia and those who are employed. It was just that "Yugormedia" from Zrenjanin that "Nina Jaka Radovic 80" that someone else wants to destroy is coming again. We can't let that happen. The Serbian Radical Party must not allow that. Here, we're trying through these amendments right now to show you what kind of irregularities he's got. You've heard of colleagues around this hospital. Now I'm giving it to you directly. Look, the story's not really for kids. This is a serious matter and you have to take it seriously and answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64324	National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64325	The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 10 of paragraphs 4 and 5 to correct the text of these amendments and additions to the law. Article 10 refers to the amendment of Article 53 of the basic law, by proposing to amend point 16 in paragraph 4 and point 17 in the fifth position, which more clearly and more precisely defines the duties and powers of the inspector in the process of overseeing the application of the law. For the sake of the public, I would like to remind myself of what biocidal products are, which are active substances or mixtures containing one or more active substances, prepared in the form of which users are supplied and whose purpose is to chemically or biologically destroy, deter or make them harmless, or prevent or control undesirable organisms. You refused this amendment. In your explanation, you stated that the amendment was not accepted for the reasons set out for not accepting the amendments under regular number 2. I do not see any similarity because this amendment under regular number 2 refers to Article 9 or Article 52 of the old law, of the basic law, while this amendment refers to Article 53 to which we have submitted, i.e. points 16) and 17). So there's no resemblance. What you wrote in your explanation, you state that, among other things, this means that those biocidal products can be placed on the market exclusively for professional use. Now I'm asking you, since in this explanation of this law on amendments and amendments to the law you wrote for financial resources, it says – an assessment of the financial resources needed to implement the law. The implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. How do you think with these existing inspectors you meet this obligation that the law imposes? I think that not only are needed but the employment of additional inspectors is necessary, because in this way not only is there a risk of endangering the health of these people, because, as we have heard, these biocidal products are not only harmful, dangerous, if they are mishandled or used by people who are not professionally trained, but can also have carcinogenic effects, they can also have a flammable effect and in one very difficult way endanger the health and life of people. As a result, I believe that the previous law, the basic law, had a solution in Article 53 which was much clearer and more precise than this one. This is just one legal-technical norm that you've tried to fix with these changes and supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64326	Since this is the last amendment to this law, does anyone else want a word? Would you like Mr. Minister? Here you go. The word has been made by Professor Dr. Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64327	Thank you, President. I think, Mr. Christin, that what you said doesn't stand, because it says, "between the data that must be delivered." So, the data is necessarily delivered, and the way they're going to deliver it is chosen. It's something that stands and there's no dilemma, it doesn't have to say "mandatory" because it's already defined by the proposed law. That's the first thing. When you ask me about the impoverished uranium, you've been a little late getting involved since 1999. I've been talking about poor uranium since 1985, as you know, among the first, I've talked about it. What you said about the bombs with the poor uranium being the target of Novi Sad and Fruska Gora, that's not true. You have a report from the military, and it's very detailed, where it's all locations. What you said about Kosovo is true, but what you said about Serbia, about Frusko Gora, it is not true and look at it. We can take a look together. When you talk about the settlement in Novi Sad, I want to tell you that there's one problem here, something that's been discovered, that there's been a change in the explosives, and instead of hydrogen, the fluorine was put in place, and in this way the explosive facts are much stronger than the explosives in which the hydrogen was placed. But it's very dangerous with bombs like this, that fluorine, when it comes into contact with the wet environment, makes hydrochloric acid, where in contact with soft tissues, there's a waste of parts of soft tissue, which is very dangerous for those who don't know it. It's something that happened to a little girl named Charenac Sladjana, who on many occasions was treated with my initiative, as VMA, so she went to Switzerland and, unfortunately, the consequences remained. What we're talking about now is "Yugoremedia", "Galenica" and "Srboc", let me tell you something -- it's not "Yugormedia" from yesterday's problem. When you talk about whether or not it comes and who is coming to make medicines and is producing medicines in Zrenjanin, it is out of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, but I have to tell you that "Yugormedia" is with major problems, especially if we consider that six medicines have lost their license to produce as early as 31 December 2010, and they have continued to produce. Among these medicines are lasix tablets and lasix ampoules, which are extremely important. Not to talk about the other drugs you're talking about. It's something that's very problematic. No one bought a drug company from Serbia in Croatia. I have to tell you that in Croatia, I started this in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the fact that around 220 and some drugs are registered from Croatia in Serbia, and the products of Galenike, Hemofarma and other factories from Serbia have very big problems, only a few medicines are registered. When we're talking about Jugormedia, there's one thing I need to tell you. There's a man at the head of that factory who's a machine locksmith by profession. I also talked to him with the Ministry of Economy and with him, since he, by decision of small shareholders, came to the head of the company, you know that the state has a stake of about 42% in the "Yugoremedia", our position and agreement was that this discomfort, which implies a license that was lost because "Yugormedia" owes 958 000 euros to a well-known firm, was to regulate it. Now the negotiations we are working on to help "Yugormedia" survive, as its production programme is very important for Serbia's health system. When it comes to the amendment spoken of by Dr Paunovic, I must say that it is just a sanitary inspection that has been introduced into this law, since it has so far had no jurisdiction, and by introducing it into this law, it is another obligation for sanitary inspectors that does not involve any material expenditure, except for the fact that they must have training and they are already going to practice, so that, by taking effect on this law, they will take this obligation at the same time, bearing in mind the jurisdiction and bearing in mind what this law solves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64328	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. As we have conducted a search of the Bills and in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will, in the day of voting, decide on the Bill's proposal, in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and ENDS OF THE TERMICALS You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Radiša Ilic, Petar Jojic, Vjerica Radeta, Dusanka Plecevic, Dusan Marić and Nikola Savić. You received an opinion from the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to this chemical law, which reads: "Article 1 paragraph 1 point 5b) changes and reads: withdrawal is any activity or measure that prevents further transport of chemicals." As shown in the amendment itself, our intention was to reduce the definition of withdrawal to as simple a formulation as possible, by removing from the original proposal a broader interpretation of what arises as a result of the withdrawal of chemicals. When something or some goods are withdrawn from traffic, it automatically means that both supply and availability of products that are harmful to human and animal health are interrupted. There was absolutely no need to explain to anyone who reads this article clearly. Speaking of the withdrawal of products containing harmful chemicals, life-threatening and human health, does the Chemicals Agency take any steps to potentially warn the events that occurred in England, which my colleague Dušanka Plecevic was already talking about, where only within two weeks two difficult cases have been recorded in women who used hair dye? This is primarily the chemical law, and this is exactly what we could get from you, to tell us if Serbia is taking any steps on this issue? I'll explain why we're looking for an answer. I say this because in Serbia, hair dyes containing paraphenyl endiamine are imported, marked as PPD. What is significant for government and agency representatives who should be doing something, the use of the chemical ingredient PPD is prohibited in France, Germany and Sweden. In Great Britain, it can represent only 6% of the total amount of hair color, but that's enough to cause severe consequences. In Serbia, I stress, PPD is allowed to be used. If something happens to a person, like these women in England, you, or representatives of the government, are likely to be held accountable because you have allowed this chemical to be found in products that are widely used in Serbia and are harmful. Here's an example for you through which you can just demonstrate this notion of pulling chemicals out of traffic. Call the PPD harmful, as did the EU's leading countries, and you swear on them, and protect the population in Serbia from possible risky events, when you are blindly following all that the EU countries are doing, be consistent with this. I am taking the opportunity to suggest to Mr. Minister of Health that he handles some research and biochemical blood tests that doctors in Kosovo Mitrovica have come to by treating Serbs who have been exposed, they say, by defending their homes and families from NATO forces. It is known that the NATO Pact has used aggression, unfortunately it is still doing so, to test various types of weapons against the civilian population, especially biological and chemical. The fact of radiological weapons is unfortunately showing results, tragic for the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64330	The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. There are 36 minutes left from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64331	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a chemical law, which states: "Article 2 paragraph 3 replaces the word "agency" with the words "ministration competent for the protection of the environment". "As Article 82 provides for the supervision of the application of this law to be carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, it is logical that the said ministry also gets information on the results and findings of inspections carried out. The question arises how will this said ministry be supervised if it is denied for the necessary information on measures and activities taken? The Chemical Agency appears here as an unnecessary transmission between the inspection services and the ministry. If we look at Article 6, but the basic Chemical Act, which lists the responsibilities of the Chemical Agency, then we can ask ourselves, what exactly remains of the Ministry of Environmental Protection to do? That's what worries us especially if we add another environmental agency, with our powers. I'm going to give you just a few responsibilities of the Chemical Agency, just from this law, which you are now changing these changes and additions. It is said - The Chemical Agency has competences in mind, means that it adopts sublegal regulations, publishes a list of substances, conducts a notification procedure, issues permits, issues authorisations for use, publishes lists, delivers solutions, prepares annual declarations, performs professional tasks, provides information, professional instructions, etc. In addition to all these responsibilities, the Agency has been given the opportunity to determine the amount of compensation established by the Chemical Act. Speaking of the Chemicals Agency, whose erasure provides for this amendment, I would only quote item 18, the authority of the Chemicals Agency, which says: "contains activities that inform the public about the impact of chemicals on human health and the environment measures to reduce risk and the safe use of chemicals". Therefore, the Chemicals Agency should inform the public about all risks and dangers that may arise from the use of certain chemicals. How's the Chemical Agency doing? And in the principle debate, I have referred you to questions, several questions that required an answer, let's say, specifically some questions that were and how upset the public in Serbia, and the word is the danger of chemicals, mentioned today by my colleague Popovic, noylphenol ethoxylate, who was found in the clothes of world famous brands. We mentioned "Easy", "Adidas", "Pumu" etc. That chemical is very toxic. Representatives of the Chemicals Agency made statements that 19 dangerous chemicals had been banned in Serbia two years ago, before the law was passed, and in the past two years, the figure has risen to a thousand. I would now ask government representatives if they can now tell citizens in Serbia if this chemical is noylphenol ethoxylate, which is extremely dangerous and found in the clothes of world famous brands, is it forbidden in Serbia? We know, we've heard that this chemical mimics female sex hormones, which has a very negative effect on human reproductive system. This can also be confirmed by a statement by National Consumer Protection Organisation representative Goran Papovic, who brings all of this into connection with the Chemicals Agency, which says that the Chemicals Agency should conduct chemical analysis and reveal the presence of dangerous chemicals, instead of just examining one piece of clothing and whether there are organoleptic clothing properties. If you have done all that you have obtained by law in power, you should inform the public in Serbia of all this, not "Greenpeace" and some other media. In the end, I did not last time, when we discussed this in principle, get a reply from the government's representative, or Mr. Minister, and I hope that today the public in Serbia will find out what the Chemical Agency is, what the competent ministry has done in terms of dangerous chemicals, including potassium cyanide, found in the basement of the House of Self-Government, in the center of Kragujevac, I asked you last time, above which is the theater for children, the union, even the city's Ombudsman that needs to take care of citizens' rights. After writing in the media, these chemicals have been there for five years. It's a company that's in the business of Jugomedic. The environmental inspectors came out, listed the situation, and found it takes 20,000 euros to remove these toxins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64332	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64333	Ladies and gentlemen, Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment to Article 4, that is, Article 88 of the basic law, paragraph 1, which reads - the ministries referred to in Article 86(2) of this Law, by means of an agreement, educate the joint body to carry out inspection tasks, and in accordance with the regulations governing the state administration and position 2 of the joint body, the Agency participates. A colleague of Radeta has submitted an amendment proposing to delete this second position because the SRS is against the existence and work against this chemical agency, as well as against the establishment and existence of all similar agencies, councils, offices, offices and various similar regulatory bodies that are practically doing everything that the departments are already doing. They're practically doing a double job. They do made-up jobs. I remind you that we have 104 regulatory bodies with about 1,000 employees in the Republic government so far, and that is the result of the work, the wrong work of the current Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, led by the DS. I remind you of a fact that is due to similar legal solutions, such as this solution, which is proposed by Verica Radet, which is that we are on October 5th 2000, following a report by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we received when the budget was adopted. There were 8,600 employees in the republican administration in the government and ministries. From the same, it means a government source, a total of 32,000 government and ministry employees on 5 October 2010. Of these 28,000 employees and 4,000 contract workers. The question is, who are these people? You have people there whose employment was necessary, professional people, but there are also a large number of activists of ruling parties who have found arrests, who are thus thanked by the ruling parties for being their voters and activists. When you multiply this number by the average salary, so when you add contributions to this, then you get one amazing piece of information that more than a billion euros has been spent on salaries and contributions from government employees in the republican administration for all these years. How wrong it is and how much better and more short ways to spend it sees only a few basic data on the social map of Serbian citizens. A million people who don't have a job. I remind you four years ago of the election campaign we had a promise from Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic that if they win the elections, they would ensure the employment of 200,000 people, the opening of 200,000 new jobs, and yesterday we heard here official data that at that time 300,000 were fired from work. With a million unemployed, we have 700,000 people who, according to official state data, live below the poverty line. These people, practically, so that citizens who are looking at this can understand, don't have enough money to buy a kilo of bread, buy a kilo of flour, a liter of milk, and say a kilo of potatoes. Seven hundred thousand people are starving today, and we're inventing various regulatory bodies, various agencies, various offices, various pointless offices, we're receiving people out there who don't know what they're supposed to do. It's going to be two, three years while they're spying on each other, while they see what their job is, their imaginary work, then a new government comes in and brings some new people who'll also spend two years stalking in a war post, etc. It's important to spend people's money. After 700,000 of these poor people, we have information about 72,000 people who eat a cooked meal today just thanks to the soup kitchens on the folk cuisines. We have the following information. In Serbia, there are 365,000 people who are homeless, living under someone else's roof, living as tenants, or God knows how they fuck. On the other hand, we have the fact that by establishing such unnecessary regulatory bodies, the government spends dozens and hundreds of millions of euros in national money. It's not a little bit of a subject, but I have to remind you that we have one situation when we're already talking about spending money and the work of these agencies, that we have one practice that no normal country in the world has. We bring a foreign company to give her a job in Serbia, so we give her free land, so we give them free utility services, and we give them free existing facilities, and we finally introduce the practice of giving her five or ten thousand euros for every new open place. On the other hand, we have people who have nothing to eat. Therefore, I believe that this amendment should be accepted, as should all these agencies, all these unnecessary working bodies. Of course, you won't do it, it will do the SRS after the May elections next year and after the election victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64334	National MP Radisa Ilic has a word for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Commissioner Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law where she proposes to delete, and this position is, for the sake of citizens, the work of the joint body is done by the agency. So what the SRS is saying and proposing and always consistent is that no agencies are needed for such serious business or for general existence. Speaking of this chemical agency mentioned in this Article 4 above all, we need to present to the citizens what this agency is. So the chemical agency is the agency that has the director, and to make it all look more serious next to the director, there are two other executive directors. Executive Director for Chemicals and Executive Director for Biocidal Products. Now, in order for this chemical agency to raise itself a little on the international agenda, there is the service for international co-operation and European integration. I don't just know what you're going to integrate with in a few months, so we should rename this specific European integration into European disintegration. So we're moving on. In the organisational scheme of the Chemical Agency, we come to the sector for legal, economic and general affairs. I guess they seem a little serious. Now, the agency has four sectors that are at first sight, when a man looks identical but is not prone to slightly increasing the employment of party personnel, four services within this agency were created. Now citizens can hear just what the four sectors that have their employees and everything that goes with it are different. The first sector, the chemical management sector and biocidal products. The second sector, he invented if by any chance something missed the first sector, which is why the second sector is called the biocidal risk management sector. They probably forgot these chemicals somewhere. The third sector was invented to do something that the second sector could do, and it wasn't, and that's the risk assessment sector for chemicals and biocidal products. And this fourth sector is for those they didn't know where to put them, so they invented the sector for the integrated chemical register. There's respected citizens, you've heard what an organisational scheme for chemicals agencies, agencies that don't need it like everyone else, because they're spending huge budgets that are and needed by this people. Seven hundred thousand Serbian citizens are absolutely at risk of poverty, and 150 thousand children remain hungry during the day in the country of Serbia. The state's throwing money at the agencies. And all these jobs you could have done at the Ministry of Environmental Protection. That's why we and the amendment anticipated the removal of this agency from this article. As for the other environmental agency, I would just mention, it is also within the scope of environmental protection and they are also how they have exceeded the Chemicals Agency, because they have one sector, they have five departments and as many as seven sections and three groups, both for economic, general and legal affairs, for the calibration laboratory, for monitoring and the state of allergenic pollen. And now how many management employees, in sectors, in these five departments in three groups, should have this agency and how much it pays. Well, then the basic means of working the room, the vehicles, the services, and not counting any further. So multiply all of this by how many agencies there are in Serbia at all, you will see how much Serbia wastes unnecessary money, and we say all of this could have been done by ministries with human resources already working in the ministry's profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64336	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64337	I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 of this Act to replace, in point 2a, the ally "or" with "i" so that the amendment reads – and organises to withdraw from the transport of chemicals and a particular product classified, marked and packaged contrary to the provisions of the laws and regulations adopted by it and orders the authority to warn consumers and further users of the risks posed by chemicals and certain products. As the addition of the member relates to the powers of the inspector, that is to say, the work of the inspector, and it must be specified in detail, without any possibility and arbitrary interpretation of the procedure. In a situation where dangerous chemicals must be withdrawn from transport, the inspector must also order all necessary actions to complete the whole process. Such a legal regulation, given by the Proposer, allows an inspector to be placed in a delicate situation as a common observer, coordinator or adviser to a legal person who has violated the provisions of this law. In order for something to be organized and completed, there must be an order that will be prescribed as mandatory. The amendment was rejected on the grounds that the authority of the inspector is not accepted for reasons that the authority of the inspector is in line with the authority of the inspector established in Article 18, paragraph 1, point 6, point 1, of the Act on the General Safety of the Product, the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, No 41/09. The proposed amendment is not at all in conflict with that member of the General Product Safety Act. The law must be clear and precise, the vesicle "or", can only be used when using synonyms, and orders and organizes completely different actions. There's no organization unless there's an order, and I guess that's clear. If you have already used the term – organizes, instead of the expression – controls or monitors, which would be more appropriate to what the inspector must do about destroying dangerous chemicals, then it must not be left to anyone at will whether the order will be executed or not. With this amendment, that uncertainty would be eliminated. However, since you are referring to the General Product Safety Act and the powers of the inspectors of Article 18 of that law, where it also states that the inspector orders or organizes, I assume that in that case you did not have the hearing of precision, but only the Croatian translation of the Brussels Orders was installed. It is the manner of all legislators of the law since 2000 to leave the possibility of different interpretations, or that regulations substantially alter the essence of the law or what it wants to achieve. It is a very syptomatic phenomenon that inadequate expressions that are not suitable for Serbian language and legal and language editorials are used, they would not be able to enter into one law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64338	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64339	The SRS has submitted an amendment to paragraph 1 suggesting that in the event that a health hazard chemical appears on the market or any other product that is not correct, it does not comply with the standards or standards in which it is located, that in that case the authority of the competent inspector is extended by its obligation to inform consumers and the public through public means of public information. The government has rejected the amendment with the following explanation, and the amendment is not accepted for reasons which give authority beyond the proposed solution. The competent inspector shall, in each particular case, decide on the manner in which he will declare the warning, depending on the number of the type or product, if the number of suppliers that have placed specific chemicals and the product is on the market. I read this explanation, for the very reason that the basic reason why we proposed this amendment was contained, and I will explain that later. As far as this finding is concerned, in the first sentence, the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the authority given is wider than the proposed solution, but that is not true. Anyone who understands, sees that the solution that we have suggested is broader. We believe that behaviour in these cases, first of all, because it is a health issue of the population, must not leave on the conscience of the inspectors, if it is found that there has been an invalid chemical on the market, some other product which is not adequately packaged, such as acid that is found in some packaging where the stopper does not breathe well, the consumer takes the product and can cause injury. In the event that some chemicals are produced, where the acid concentration is higher than that allowed, there may be damage to the consumer’s skin used by this chemical to clean the sanitary, household, etc. We believe that there is nothing more logical and normal than that there is a legal obligation in that case, that the inspector will inform the public about it, because he can't go from consumer to consumer, than those consumers who bought the product from one to the other, so that warning them that what you bought can be dangerous, or he'll go from cashier to cashier, so let her know if someone comes to buy this chemical, please inform them that this chemical is packaged in an unlicensed way, or that you may think that these companies that are involved in the production of these chemicals and objects for broad consumption, that they will be so safe, that they will inform consumers and that these products will withdraw from use. We simply believe that reacting in these cases cannot be left on the conscience, at the good will of the inspector. In the EU, whose standards you are also calling upon under this bill, what the SRS is proposing is understood. This is the material that we got with this bill. The material has 88 pages in total. Just a bill of law, that's this sheet of paper, two sides. Law two pages, and 88 pages material. What are these other strangers? It is a 75-page declaration of compliance with EU rules. I don't understand what you were harmonising when you made such a failure. You killed yourself to explain to those in Brussels how you respected these attitudes, directives, standards, tortured these officials, poor people in the government, to compare this whole thing, to pay the translators to translate this, to make this table, there are about 72 pages of the table. When you calculate it, you convert it into meters, you carry on to each other, 20 meters of the table. All these were done, printed 35,000 sheets of paper to get this material to the MPs, to get members of the board, to get members of the government, etc. At the end of all this you refuse to accept the amendment of the SRS which, under the circumstances, is in line with European standards, and you leave your solution that is contrary to those standards. The inspector may possibly be given the opportunity to assess in which means of information to publish this warning, i.e. the notification that a particular product is dangerous to use. You know, if it is a product sold only in a particular area, it can be allowed to assess that it should be published in some local or regional media, and if it is a product produced for the whole market of the Republic of Serbia, it is likely that it is logical to inform all citizens of Serbia. As important as this is, I'll show you on one case. Now it's actual, one television broadcasts special shows about it. These are these vaccines against swine flu. Turns out those vaccines were broken. In some countries, analysis has even shown that there was a swine flu virus in vaccines. As a consequence, more people in the world died of a vaccine received than the disease itself. Now it turns out that the health minister, of course, not you, but your predecessor, the people in the ministry, and the people in the company who were supplying these vaccines knew that the damage of these vaccines was far greater than the benefits of long-term damage. So people who have received the vaccine can suffer long-term serious health consequences. That's what they're admitting now. They say – we allowed the vaccination because we estimated that at that point the benefits were greater than the damage. I would like to be honest with you whether the reason they kept quiet is because they estimated that the benefits would still be greater than the damage or the reason why the vaccine was imported by the largest tycoon company in Serbia, that by selling it, its company achieved millions and millions of dollars in profits. We have submitted this amendment for the reason that by adopting it, by adopting our solution, we would reduce the possibility of abuse, the possibility for inspectors in these cases to act selectively depending on what the Government is saying in its explanation, who is the manufacturer, who is the distributor, who is the trader. We are afraid here of corruption, whether the inspector will react the same if a product that is dangerous, chemical that does not comply with standards, another product, a chemical that is not packaged as prescribed, is one inspector going to react the same if it is a chemical product or distributes a company owned by Miroslav Miskovic, a company owned by Milan Beko, Predrag Ranković – Peconi, Miodrag Kostic or if it is the product of a small small businessman from the Great Plan or Smederjevska Palanka, you all know the answer - it is clear that he will make sure that he does not mind these tycoons. The same question, the same dilemma, will the inspector react the same way if he knows that the market for a harmful product has been acquired by a company that is close to the ruling party, one of the ruling parties, or financed by one of the ruling parties, or by a company that favours an opposition party and may be funded by an opposition party, although in Serbia it is not logical that someone is giving money to the opposition, everyone is competing to finance the government because they expect to benefit from it and it turns out to be the most successful business Serb companies, to help the ruling parties, so these post-procurement jobs. Public procurement spends four billion euros in Serbia, and the assessment of the Agency for Corruption, these friends of yours from Europe, say -- out of four billion euros, every five euros, 800m euros goes to bribes and corruption in a country with a million unemployed, 700 thousand hungry, 65,000 unhappiness in people's kitchens and 300,000 people with no roof over their heads. You know, when an invalid product appears on the market, so it's still publicized, it's causing a lot of damage to the distributor and the manufacturer. If they will earn a million euros in the job, say, or 10 million, they will not find it difficult to give an inspector with a salary of 35,000, to offer him 10 or 20 if they need 50,000 euros. We all know it's happening. They'll do anything to cover up the case. It will be a regular occurrence if this solution remains. It is therefore necessary to accept the amendment of the SRS, because if this amendment is accepted it will not be possible. If the public is informed, if there is a legal obligation for the inspector to notify the public, he must do so. This bribed inspector won't be allowed to take bribes, and this honest inspector will resist the pressure to take bribes. I would really like the minister to explain to us what this amendment to the SRS has not been accepted. To prevent the application of various arches, to prevent abuse, to prevent corruption, to prevent political influence remains only the only solution to accept the SRS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64340	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64341	I'll try not to be boring by asking my questions, and by answering certain questions, so they don't owe so much to be an interesting subject I'm going to talk about. My colleague Nikola Savic here has submitted an amendment to Article 6(2) or, if necessary, I will read this article and this amendment in order to make it clear to you what the substance, smiles and products should not be handled in accordance with the restrictions and prohibitions, including the forced implementation of the measure of recalling the substance, smiles and products, etc. First, I'll tell you I'm a technical face. Otherwise, I worked for 30 years in the chemical industry to maintain certain technological systems that produced these chemical substances. You know, when it's not your profession, you usually know more about certain matter than what you're supposed to know, or what you're supposed to know. First, I'd probably introduce you, but also to the citizens, so they can know how many of these chemicals or chemical substances that are being applied to us but under different names and whether or not we're using them adequately. First of all, I'm going to tell you in tobacco production that a lot of chemicals are delivered, such as herbicides, pesticides, insecticides. No thermal process is impossible to destroy the presence of these herbicides, insecticides, so that later on, when used in tobacco production, we can use them. You know very well that certain, to put it that way, additives, whether in food production or in tobacco production, are inserted in to make that aroma look as attractive as possible, or so that those who use it can use it at as long a time interval as possible. So that's the fattest thing I have to tell you, that today is the most present and probably what my great appeal to citizens would pay attention to, because the deaths that are happening are very much related to the presence of chemicals in tobacco, in that plant used to make tobacco. What I'd like to say next is, we're constantly potentiating about soy products and we're always talking about genetically modified soybeans. It's very dangerous, but I'm going to tell you why and how and how it's possible to determine, it doesn't exist because I'm one big soy producer and I have to tell you honestly, there's no other way of applying to be able to figure out if it's a genetically modified soybean or, to call it, a simple soybean. Genetically modified soybean, it is sprayed by totalocide and the amount of that herbicide remains in fact on soybean seed, which is detected by a specific fluid to reveal the presence of herbicides, i.e. whether it is genetically modified soybean or not. Now, see if these soy products, which we hear a lot of use today, are used by children or children's diet, are there any need to pay great attention here, just as it is, to prevent imports or prevent the use of genetically modified seeds in soybean production, which is also very fatal and we know well that only in the third or fourth generation using genetically modified plants comes into sterility. I must tell you, in 1988, what Mr. Minister said, application or use of radioactivity, I must tell you that when I defended the Master's thesis in Novi Sad in 1988, in front of me a gentleman defended the doctoral dissertation, he planted vegetable plants 200 kilometers from Chernobyl, using and questioning how much radioactivity was present. And what surprised me or what I came up with was that vegetable tomatoes and strawberries are with the slightest presence of radioactivity. Also, great chemicals you know well in potato production, if it all went into the fruit of potatoes, how much chemicals are delivered during insecticides and protection, that would be very dangerous for a man. The fourth analysis, either by applying it or by saying it, insecticide, when pollinating mosquitoes, and it can be a very dangerous thing to be present, at least as far as the use of herbicides is concerned, because we know well what citizens are saying, and I must honestly tell you that I personally experienced it when I noticed in the fields of a glassy matter that is present, which unfortunately came somewhere from the height, where certain people used it, they threw it all over Serbia. What I'm still interested in is, I haven't had the opportunity, since I'm the chairman of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, I first organized a meeting of this Science Committee at the Vinch Institute. That's where I met with the pharmaceutical factory. It was stopped, that construction of it, in 2007. You're well aware, I asked the Ministry of Education and Science to initiate a meeting with the Ministry of Health, to see why they care about the production of pharmaceuticals. You know what this is used for in diagnostics, for early cancer detection, and you know well how long it takes from production to use, how long it takes for it to be used, these drugs to be used in early cancer detection. I wonder, it's about one thing, to call it banal stuff. It cannot be agreed by the Clinical Centre and the Ministry of Health and agreed by the Vinca Institute who will be the bearer of the production of this drug of the pharmaceuticals. The building's been built, the equipment's arrived. You are well aware that when Putin and Medvedev came here, they expressed a great desire for Russia to be involved in the finalization of this product, that even certain companies that are interested in buying, also, this part of the Vinch Institute for the Production of Pharmaceuticals. It's an Israeli pharmaceutical house. Even from the U.S., from Japan, people were interested in buying. But, unfortunately, why is there no purchase or realization of this problem? No, because shopping, let's say, is this 1000-euro drug, you know it well, and if it were produced in our country, it would be 250 euros. That's what they said when they exhibited professional people in Vinci, when we asked them why the production stopped. Secondly, I ask you to explain yourself or to tell me, you've seen how many of ours, to call them, Western friends, have used these chemicals in "merciful angel." They wanted to do the action in Serbia, to force Serbia, that is, to make today what would happen, which is that KIM becomes or as they say Kosovo, become an independent republic. That was their goal, but it was not their goal as many colleagues in their exhaustive discussions as the poor uranium and certain chemicals delivered to this poor Serbia, where individuals said -- not enough Serbia was bombed yet, not yet destroyed, try a little while longer, it has not yet been laid down, it has not yet recognised defeat. I'm interested -- how many cancer patients are associated with children, for all other citizens of Serbia, do you have that information? And one information that is very interesting, and these are certain diseases, such as the thyroid gland, such as breast cancer in men, such as the colon, such as the colon. These are indicative diseases that occur on certain parts of the body, so we can also say skin cancer, which shows that there has not only been abuse or when negative use, during the diet where it is shown and already proves 10 years since the killing of Serbia and Serbia's citizens, and how much longer it will take for this contimination or this radioactivity, unfortunately, to be rooted out of Serbia at all in a number of years. What I also have to tell you, there are a lot of chemicals that are used by non-professional handling in food production, which is, I'm just going to tell you, phosphamide that is insecticide in some way, where you have to pass the karenc use of that herbicide. However, by executing and destroying these insecticides, after a few days that product is found in the markets. Will inspectors be able to determine whether certain products are correct from these chemical substances or not? That's the problem. I'll tell you one more thing, there's not that much diversion going on in the world, like we're doing, that trade lobby. Because you can see on the packaging that it writes anything else, and in fact, by laboratory testing it's quite, quite the opposite. What am I telling you? So when importing, it's not a topic, and I'm going to tell you what I'm saying, mineral fertilizer is where it says that three fifteens, whether there's potassium, nitrogen and phosphorus, and actually that content is smaller. I asked the question where I didn't get an answer because they couldn't answer me, but it's safe. What is the contamination of wheat imported from Chechnya? She wasn't contaminated by this accident in Japan. No, it's an inadequate use of mineral fertilisers. I worked at that factory, so I'm telling you now, because the phosphates and raw materials that are imported can be contaminated radio-active and then, in the production of mineral fertilisers, this large dose of contamination, or radio-activity, that acts harmfully afterwards. We imported wheat from Chechnya that actually has or has an increased level of radio-activity. Unfortunately, wheat was exported, however, wheat exported from our stock reserves, but wheat was found in the stock reserves contaminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64342	Time. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64343	First of all, I must thank Parliamentarian Maric, for being a little ashamed. To be honest, I haven't seen how much my associates have made an effort to make one of these laws. If from the 88 pages, on the 30 pages of the law, as he says, and even on the 58 pages, the documents of which this law has been made, then congratulations, to all my associates. Thank you, Mr. Maric, for giving me reason to thank them. If so many people are working with this much material and extracts this much material from the law, it means they have seen everything that stands, not in the EU, in developed countries. I'm talking about developed countries, I'm talking about countries. Is that the EU now, is that America? We can envy them sometimes, we can hate them for these or those reasons, but we have to give them some credit for some of the values that they have and that we strive for. So it's perfectly normal. When it comes to this law and these changes, let me answer. First of all, it is referred to in Article 2, which Mr Milic spoke of, whether we are being followed by the PPD. Yes, PPD is allowed at certain concentrations and is regularly controlled. There was no overusing his use. There's all this data on the Health Ministry website, and that's what I've seen as your gratitude, i.e. as your good intentions to keep the public informed. It is one recognition to the Ministry of Health who, while propo this request of yours, informed the public at the same time. Anyone who enters this site will see it and there won't be any problem. When it comes to Kosovo Mitrovica when it comes to biochemical analysis. Sometimes I'm surprised, and, you know, we have very often public situations. First, journalists or those who do not decide, we can call reasons such as or such, and then a home institution such as the Ministry of Health, and even we have introduced a special phone whose number we have repeatedly mentioned, that these and these things are shown on that phone, if it cannot otherwise, to respond urgently. Secondly, as you know, we fully finance the functioning of health institutions in Kosovo and in enclaves. At the same time, we know what chemicals, when and under what conditions we buy. Therefore, I'm not saying we won't push those results, but we are critical when any results are made public, and Kosovo Mitrovica's results must be properly explained. They haven't gotten to us yet. When they arrive, the competent professional services will then analyse these results and report them to the public, above all, to the professional and then to the citizens of our country. As far as the agencies are concerned, you know, you want to abolish agencies by law on biocidal products. You know for a fact that the Agency Act has been passed. There is a law based on which agencies can be abolished and how they can be abolished. Don't ask us to. When you say that these funds can finance the poor, I have to tell you that I am very concerned about people who are employed in health care, given that one number of medical personnel is in very large existential problems. I take great care of that. I have to tell you, and I hope that you now, I mean the entire Assembly, during the budget vote, say, let's say -- for health care, we have to give at least about the means, and as much resources as it takes for health care, it means that others can't function then. What about school, but we'll see about that. For your information, when it comes to agencies, most agencies themselves are funded. The Agency for Medicinal Products is funding itself and earning a profit that goes into the budget. I don't want to talk about an agency under the patronage of the Minister of Ecology, Mr. Dulic. I received information that this agency is financed from a budget of 50 million dinars, and 70 million from its own incomes and with a tendency to gradually stand alone and to characterise and regulate its own incomes. There's a definition of the difference between chemicals and biocidal matter, so we don't talk about it, you understand, since it seems a little mixed up. What you said about chemicals, noniphenol, ethoxylate, as you called it, is forbidden in all detergents. It's not used. It's dangerous when it's introduced into the organism, but it's not transmitted through clothes, it's introduced by the oral pathway. When it comes to restrictions and orders. He says – the obligation to withdraw is on whoever put it on the market, the product, and the inspector orders it or oversees it and can help. So, depending on how you estimate it. Therefore, this amendment, which Mrs Plecevic spoke of, was not accepted. When it comes to vaccines against swine flu, since you mention them all the time, we will keep you informed on the 22nd, hold a large gathering in the presence of experts from the World Health Organization, domestic experts who participated in the declaration of the pandemic, both from this country and the surrounding countries, and invite you to do whatever is interesting to you, especially if the vaccine was incorrect. Whether there were live viruses in the vaccine and whether more than one person died or not, in that place, in the presence of experts, we solve it the way it is done. How will the inspector react if it's tycoons, what if it's just a man? It is one of the crucial questions of the President of the Assembly that leads this congregation to, for example, a common man, takes care and tries to find the best modus. Someone will react properly, someone will react differently, but those who react against the law, there are legal solutions that allow them to be sanctioned. When we talk about genetically modified food, it's illegal. There's nothing special to discuss. As much as it is contaminated wheat from Chechnya, I don't know, and I couldn't tell you. That's what the D.O.O. and the D.A. will tell you. It's true that there are harmful chemicals in the tobacco, and that's why we're fighting the anti-smoking law, that smoking is rooted out of our midst and that there's as little of it as possible. Here, you have the President of the Assembly who won the first prize for fighting and for the results achieved in that fight by the authorities. What you're saying about tomatoes and strawberries 200 kilometers from Chernobyl, I also don't know, but I know that pollination against mosquitoes leads to certain health problems, especially people who are suffering from respiratory infections, and that's something that's familiar. What you're saying now about Vinci, it's about something else in Vinci. The building was manufactured, but no equipment was purchased to make radio-isotopes for so-called. "five scanners", located at the Clinical Centre of Serbia. We spoke on that basis when we were in Rome with the Minister of Health of Italy. They sent, after the first in Europe introduced the technology of "five scanners", in fact because they were the first in Italy, sorry, the minister and his team worked on the problem, they were in Serbia and suggested that radio-isotopes and radio-isotopes production factories, i.e. labs, buildings at the Clinical Center, next to the Five Centres, for the simple reason that some of the radio isotopes produced have a short half-life, for example, for up to half an hour. If there were any traffic jams, then that radio-isotopic would literally fail. That's why the proposal is not to be in Vinci, but to be in the Clinical Centre of Serbia. We are working on it, it takes about seven to eightm euros for it to be equipped with all those production capacities. Then you'd be unique on this field and you could have its products, the ones that can be exported, and they could be exported. When you talk about how many cancer patients are caused by the fact that the uranium is poor, we can talk about it a little bit, but I wouldn't want to bother the rest of the people. Let's say, when a missile hits with an impoverished uranium, it creates uranium oxide, so-called, which depending on the rose wind goes up to 40 kilometers. You know it's thousands of years, not to mention some larger number, half-time decomposition or half-life of uranium. You know, because of the production of that ammunition in America and the release of that chemical in the lake in Minnesota, those lakes are infected, so they can't use fish or anything. But it's something that involves a detailed analysis. There's data, which is now, frankly, I don't have, is there, how many of those people are suffering from cancer, but it's for another chance. I'm ready to deliver all that information to you at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-01-0.u64344	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your associates and for your participation in the work. We've completed a search on all amendments, so I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday 5 December 2011, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Thank you for your work. I'll see you at the vote Monday. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, there are 105 of us, and in order to determine the exact quorum, please insert the cards into the electronic voting system units. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I figure there's 128 of us, and there's working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Vitomir Mihajlovic and Zoran Nikolic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. I'm putting the Rehabilitation Bill to the vote, in principle. I remind you that the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular. We're moving on to a decision. Of the 128 MPs, he voted 121. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since we have adopted the bill in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, five for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 11 for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 108 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 18 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic submitted the 7th amendment together. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, eight for. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, eight for. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Members of Serbia and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 16 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 26 and article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 27 and article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, eight for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbian Group submitted the title above Articles 27 and 27 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 28th and Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, eight for. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 99 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 31st Amendment in the same text was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serb and People's MP Meho Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, six for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting a vote on the Rehabilitation Bill, in general. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 121 for. I understand we passed the Rehabilitation Act. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary Laws on emergency situations. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Emergency Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 125 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, the passing of decisions is not. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 98 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th amendment was submitted by MPs Mirko Munjic, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia, to the same text. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 106 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 94 voted. The amendment has been accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Emergency Act, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 is in favour. I find that we have passed a law on amendments and additions to emergency situations. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the proposal in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I'm putting a vote on a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 123 is in favour. I find that we have accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the law in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The amendment added to article 1 by a new member of the 1st party was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the 5th amendment with a correction of 29 November 2011, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted together. Of the 127 MPs, 12 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 104 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, nobody. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 103 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 10 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 115 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 109 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 14th amendment was divided by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 19th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Defence and Security Committee, submitted an amendment adding a new Article 22a after Article 22. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 117 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 28th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Srdjan Spasovevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 34 of the amendment is President Olena Papuga. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 11 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group submitted to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Momir Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 102 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 39th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 99 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 98 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 43rd amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs: together Aleksandra Jankovic and Srdjan Spasojevic and MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 93 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Đerici Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The same text was submitted to the 47th amendment by MP Dragan Stevanovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you, honourable MPs, that he is a member of 47. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. With 123 votes for, of us 127, I find that we have accepted this proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that we have passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of Laws on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, five MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, five MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic have submitted a joint amendment, with an amendment, suggesting that two new members of 2a and 2b be added after Article 2. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, five MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, seven MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 37 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Somebody advertise the malfunction. I'm concluding that we need to repeat the vote. After all the technical checks, I'm guessing we can get back to work. I'd like to inform you that I haven't announced the results before. Of 127 MPs, four for. I'm sorry. So 37 voted in favour of 127 MPs, so there is no vote of amendments on members of the 3rd People's MPs Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic and Nenad Canka. I would like to inform you that the service has informed me that the amendment to Article 3, which was submitted jointly by the MPs Bojan Kostreš and Aleksandra Jerkov, has been withdrawn, so we do not declare it. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Pursuant to Article 3 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Proposer Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Dear People's MPs, I'd like to ask you to return to the O.R. at 11.30 p.m. Thank you.
