ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57344	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on our official record, there are 90 of us, and in order to precisely determine the quorum in the O.R., please insert the cards into the e-system MPs. I would like to inform you that there are 86 of us, which means that there are working conditions, as well as that it is also prevented the sittings from being attended by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Snezana Samardžić-Marković, Minister of Youth and Sports, is attended by Ivana Kovacevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Snezana Klasna, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports Borisvoje Jankovic, Head of Strategic Standard Jobs of Youth International Cooperation at the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Dragan Glisic, Head of the Department for the Management of Staff and Harmonisation of Interior Units at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the first item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE YOUNG LAW. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radović, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tovović, Dragan Čalić, Dragan Šormaz, Nenad Čanak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovana Pavnović, Gordana Pavnović, Donka Banović, Miljak-Marković, Milica Vojić, Milan Dimitrijić, Dušanko Šović, Elvira Šovar Ković, Elvir Ković, Baljan Šović, Baljan Žaljan Žaljan Žarović, Žaljan Žalić, Žaljan Žarović, Žarović, Žalić, Žalić, Žar, Žar, Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žaljaljić, Žar. You have received a report from the Committee on Youth and Sports and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Youth Committee and sport have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57345	A colleague of Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill, which reads: "this law regulates the measures and activities undertaken by the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province and the units of local self-government, aimed at improving the social position of young people and creating conditions to meet the needs and interests of young people in all areas of interest for young people". The amendment requires the following words in Article 1(1): "they aim" to add: "systemic care of institutions for young people". The government has rejected the amendment for reasons it considers impunity. The objective of the SRS parliamentary group is for the population of young people to be run by state authorities rather than NGOs and different associations whose formation is foreseen by this draft law. The SRS believes that this important area of the state must be taken care of and taken responsibility, as young people, as it has repeatedly pointed out here, the future and society and the state and their problems must be realistically seen from all aspects, not just from the aspect of youth activists in associations and NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57346	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57347	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has tabled 25 amendments to a bill with 29 members. We obviously have a completely different view of how the law for young people should look from you. We exposed that concept when we spoke in principle. With these amendments, we tried to fix what you suggested, because we believe that if we were to fight for the concept we proposed, we would have to delete all these members. Our amendments are heading towards the correction of this proposal that you have proposed to us. In Article 1(1), which reads "the measures and activities undertaken by the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government aimed at improving the social position of young people and creating conditions for meeting the needs and interests of young people", you further say "in all areas of interest to young people", and we are just erasing these words. I don't know what areas are that aren't of interest to young people. We think that young people are a very important and crucial group, if I may say so, for this society, first of all because we are still obliged to care for them, at least at the age when adolescents are, in the sense of making a country that is exercising their human rights. There are no areas where their human rights are not compromised, if the state doesn't arrange it, starts with education, starts with a field of employment, starts with health care, social protection, sports, leisure time. So we don't think there's an area that young people aren't interested in, and that's why we think it's okay to completely delete this "in all areas that are of interest to young people". All areas are of interest to young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57348	The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dušanka Plečević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57349	With this amendment, which I have submitted before the SRS, I have tried to correct the text of Article 1 of this Act, which MPs called in the principle debate a legal framework, a list of principles, a declaration and so on. I suggested that following the word "orientation-oriented" the word "protection" is added to the word "protection", so that the whole attitude should read as follows: "Youth policy is a total of all the measures and activities of the state bodies of institutions, associations and other entities aimed at improving, protecting and improving the position of young people". The term "protection" implies all the legal measures that should be taken to protect young people from all negative influences, such as drug protection, the sale of alcoholic beverages to young people, the ban on showing movies containing violence for young people and children under 16 years of age, the poor influence of media on young people, especially forcing negative characters as idols through various non-quality music shows and reality programs and so forth. In a broader sense, adequate and accessible education systems, health care, especially young people after 26 years of life who do not have those rights in health care that other young people have. And what is essential for having such a perspective, protection in the field of employment and protection of the employees of few young people from employers. National MPs received a comparison of laws and other acts on young people, in some countries of Europe as well as in countries, or republics of the former SFRY. So we have seen that in these countries there is more about protecting young people in their acts and plans than we have by proposing this act, which you call the law. I asked some young people who followed the television broadcast of the debate in principle - did they understand what would improve in their lives, when they adopted and began to apply this law? They didn't know they were answering me, because they didn't hear anything in particular. When I was asked the same thing, as I understood, what this law would bring quality to their lives, I answered them the same thing that they did to me – nothing concrete, except the phrase that the objective is a sustainable and institutional framework, the pyramidal structure of the state sector, etc., in principle we would hear it, as well as the phrase that this law will regulate the effective and coherent functioning of issues which are of particular importance for this area, etc., as stated in the reasoning of this law. In its essence, this does not differ much from the National Youth Strategy, since it does not know what sanctions will be imposed by those who do not enforce this law when it enters into force. Practically, it will not oblige anyone to apply it and it will not essentially change the position of young people in Serbia who were before the law was passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57350	Madam Minister, you have your word. Excuse me, Madam Minister, just before I give you my word, I'd like to ask you all to put the cards back on to see how the system works. We're not determining the quorum, but just to see, there's obviously some problems. Madam Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57351	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Of course, we had in mind the possibility of protecting young people, since it is certainly something that is in the interest of the entire state and of this Parliament and of individual parliamentary clubs, but certainly also of the Ministry of Youth Care. However, in our intelligence, it is not the safety of young people, because it is the authority of some other ministries. Now I'm going to list which laws are those of these very questions you've been talking about, and therefore it doesn't need to be particularly apostrophe in the youth law. For example, these questions that are for the coffee shop inspection service, they deal with the Law on Local Self-Government, in Article 20. The law on local self-government is described the jurisdiction of the municipality. Then, by the Consumer Protection Act, we also have this topic that you are talking about, in Articles 49 and 51 on the issue of alcoholic beverages, etc. We have the Advertising Act that also regulates the protection of young people from these negative influences, as well as for example. The law on tobacco and the Law on the Communist Police, which is why we did not consider it necessary to burden this law with all these elements. What I can guarantee you with certainty, the Ministry has no influence, nor will it have an impact on the editorial policy of individual media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57352	Thank you. Mrs. Plecevic, would you like to go from the time of the group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57353	Yeah. I was talking about protection here, not security. You said - the safety of young people is regulated by some other laws. I was talking about protection, not security. If we have all these laws that you've counted, then the question is, what does this law regulate? Then we don't need him. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57354	Madam Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57355	You have asked what this law regulates, be kind, so read it, and you yourself have spoken what this law regulates. Among other things, it is youth activists and institutional concern for young people. Certainly, ensuring that individual youth activities will be financed through the institutions of the system and, of course, through citizens' associations.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57356	The People's MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57357	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister has given me cream for what I want to say. It is a great dilemma whether Serbia needs a law for young people, if we have separated all these areas where the law and the state need to protect the general rights of young people, which are otherwise defined in the Constitution. You've listed some of the laws. We have the Law on the Foundations of System and Education which will now be changed, so the Family Act, so on Health Protection, so citizens' associations, this law enters into the area and associations of citizens, which has already been brought into this topic, and on the prohibition of discrimination, on sport, on labour, on minor offenders and on the protection of minors. So we have to figure out two things. These are only laws relating to the defence of those general rights of young people, which are defined by our special laws and the Constitution as a roof law, but still remains the position of young people and I believe that this law should actually deal with the position of young people, if it should already be brought in in the form it is. So this is the issue that we have opened in the principle debate, is Serbia really in line with those countries that think that such a law fully covers the area of protection of young people and the fulfilment of their rights, the improvement of their position and participation in full social life, or should we look at the other part of those countries that have passed a really large number of laws, which protect the rights of young people, but on the other hand do not have a single law concerning only young people, which is called the law on young people or the like that, as some other countries have passed. But let's go back to this Article 2rd paragraph 3 that the DSS has submitted to the amendment. Your position 3. in the original is – youth policy in the areas of the youth sector is carried out by the ministry responsible for youth affairs, in the further text of the ministry, by implementing the strategy and other programming documents in the field of youth policy and by coordinating activities in their implementation, with the participation of the authorities responsible for specific areas in the youth sector and all other youth policy entities, in accordance with this law. Pretty complicated. We tried to say this differently – the youth policy in the youth sector is being implemented by the ministry responsible for youth affairs, in the further text of the ministry, in line with the strategy and other documents in the youth policy area. The Ministry shall coordinate activities in the overall implementation, with the participation of the authorities responsible for specific areas in the youth sector and all other youth policy entities, in accordance with this law. We simply think that this is more in the spirit of the law, this proposal as you have made, and again the question remains open – whether this law enters, therefore, if we stay on the point that it is given and needed, whether it enters the area of the law on associations of citizens, because this area is, I remember very well, because I have written amendments that are just about the protection of children and young people, this area is covered by how-so, I am not satisfied with how it is covered, but it is covered in that law. Once again, the question that Mrs Plecevic has opened, we, indeed as a society, in this law and in the laws that we have passed earlier, which should concern the safety of children against alcohol, drugs, drugs and everything else, may have done our job by passing them, but these laws are not applied. I have one research on me, which is very good, and I think each of us needs to know, this research says that one quarter of the school's children are 16 years old, which is almost 25%, 24.9% regularly consumes alcohol, or, in fact, she said that she drank alcohol 40 or more times in her life. This research is European research. It was done by the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Public Health of Serbia. 6,500 first-class high school students from urban and rural areas participated. So, indisputable to this subject, we have to deal with it. You're like a youth minister who has to be interested in this area. The right to tell you, Madam Minister, I expect from you that whenever such research is published, you participate in these discussions and speak for the benefit of this country having to deal with the protection of its young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57358	Madam Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57359	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Of course, that research you mentioned was, as you yourself quoted, done by the Ministry of Health. If you think that we are not in consultation with the Ministry of Health, I will have to reassure you, because they also have a special strategy of youth health, which they have worked with us. This law, like I said in the introduction, and maybe you didn't remember, so I'll do it again. In my exposé, I said that this law only has an ambition to correct those places that are not particularly young in other laws. That's why we didn't have, I'll quote you -- the ambition to fully cover the position of young people, because the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as I said, has a very small number of employees and cannot fully cover the position of young people. Once again, I will return to why the Ministry, or the Government, did not accept your amendment. And you said yourself that it's just a different definition, so since we define the same thing differently, it's really just nuances. We decided to respect 2,500 young people who participated in writing this law. Also, I would not enter into a debate – whether in the 21st century there is a need for a law on young people or not. You explain to your young people why you feel that this law is not necessary. If you think Germany is such a good example, please start to advocate, as a parliamentary club, what our parliamentary club advocates, and these are the European standards and Serbia's entry into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57360	Which one of you is going to go first? Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57361	Replica. Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, you wouldn't be as incorrect as you are at the moment and twisted your words, because I said very precisely that there remains a dilemma – whether the law is required in the 21st, 23rd or 25th century, it doesn't matter. It's simple, this law as you've given it, everyone would be ashamed. This isn't the law of the 21st century, Madam Minister. My words weren't that it didn't need the law, but the dilemma whether this law made sense or not. A law like this, if you want me to tell you to the end, this law absolutely means nothing in the lives of young people, or that information. Why doesn't it mean? Because he won't change anything in their lives. You're regulating something that already exists. You're legalizing something that already exists. There's this young man's office. There is volunteerism of young people, in the NGO sector, in the party sector and everywhere. You're just legalizing something and describing something that already exists. On the other hand, I advocate that society must really be responsible for its young. I'm trying, and so is my MP group, to say it very precisely. I think the young people understand me. I think I should take care of their unemployment. I think they understand me because they know they're the category that's the most unemployed. The least employed category is young for you. They understand me when I tell them that their scholarships are extremely expensive, without hearing the Ministry of Sports say that – that's right, they're expensive. We all have to make sure they're cheaper together. I can't hear you talking about it. I can't hear you, I've got newspaper articles here about it, and it doesn't say "Sports Ministry" anywhere. It's just the Department of Health. I can't hear you. The fact that you may have tried somewhere, it doesn't say. It doesn't say, Madam Minister, and you don't sound well. No, I beg you to twist my words, lest we be impeccable, and I to you, and you also to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57362	Minister Markovic-Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57363	Thank you, Madam Chairman. When you want to hear my words – young people need to be more employed, they need to reduce tuition, they need to be even better health protection in line with budget options. Not only that, not just what we're saying, we're doing something. The youth offices were opened, although there was no legal basis. Now I'm giving you a chance to get those legal basis institutions. On the basis of the statutes, municipalities were established, where the Youth and Sports Ministry also made efforts to offer permanent conferences of cities and municipalities the best words, so that the formulations would be made in the statutes of municipalities. I'm glad something can be done in Serbia on the basis of goodwill. We are now just, as you rightly said, legalizing this situation so that it has sustainability. That is what is also important in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57364	The People's MP Alexander Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Minister, the Government's representatives, I didn't want to report on this amendment, but you gave me the creamworth, Madam Minister. The DSS has written a large number of amendments, 25 as you have heard from my distinguished colleague, Ms. Milice Vojić-Markovic, and we expected you to accept more amendments, and you accepted only our three amendments. Otherwise, we wanted to, in essence, change the text of the law, because we feel that this law on young people is not a good law. We were also in the debate in principle saying that this was a pamphlet of that declaration, as your one MP said, that it was a single declaration. So we wanted this law to be serious and nothing else. When it comes to the DSS and its policy towards the EU, you know well, the public knows well that the DSS and how it advocates Serbia entering the EU, but with KIM, it is watering between you and us. We accept KIM as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and I don't know about you, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57366	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57367	Thank you, Madam President. So, I'm going to talk about something that two MPs were mentioned. So, Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic and Mrs. Dusanka Plecevic. Madam Minister, you can see how empty the declaration can be. The declarativeity in your law is, I think, an alpha and an omega of the whole law. You have two laws in the field of health care. Health care and health insurance laws. In these laws, fundamental rights in some segments are denied to young people. Two, three years later, certain state institutions are talking about the problem, the lack of the right to health care for young people and students, in certain segments of health care. The Ministry of Health was your client's portfolio. You're the Minister of Youth and Sports. The problem is not heard in public, the problem is not solved, and the problem is serious. So it's nice to write something about the law, but there has to be communication between those people who enforce the law. I can't conduct regulations, I can't care about young people, and I can't deny them fundamental rights. It's the fate of this law, there's no communication, there's no enforceability, there's actually one concern for the government for young people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57368	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57369	I expected that there would be some general objections in this law too, and that it would try to try to do what was really well done, by mixing various topics that do not have touching points, such as the KiM theme, etc., to try to devalue something that had passed a wide circle of public debate with the full participation of young people and the remark itself, that the law, we had the remark that the law was too smooth. Now that the law is short, etc. The law is good or bad. This is a good law, and it only depends on which area it regulates and how it regulates and whether it improves or improves the existing situation, from this aspect it is necessary to appreciate the quality of the law. This law improves the existing situation. What exists already in society he institutionally solves and connects. Then we have an amendment that says, instead of coordinating, there's coordination. I think it's pleonasm. Coordination is coordination. I don't know, instead of implementing the strategy, it's in line with the strategy. Well, as soon as the strategy is implemented, it's in line with the strategy. It is said that Article 2, paragraph 3, is too smooth because it connects the strategy, documents, youth policy with the authorities responsible for implementing policies in the youth sector, etc. I think that really, all laws that have no touch, I don't know with some other policy areas, I don't need to present them to the public in this way, because really, if it's allowed to present the flat-rate qualifications like this, people who aren't referred to the content itself and the meaning of this legal text can get the impression that something that doesn't make sense can be done. What is done makes a lot of sense, full of state and institutional sense, and of course, that each of us would like to put it in this law, to write, all young people must get a job right after they finish school. All young people should have an average salary of 5,000 euros. All young people should have an apartment. All young people need to have a baby in their first year of married life, if they decide to have a child, and if they decide to have twins or threesomes, they should have that too. So, indeed, the position of young people depends primarily on politics, the comprehensive policy of a single country. This country is heading towards European integration of establishing European standards because they are in today's civilization world the highest standards and standards that provide the most opportunities for young people. This cannot be regulated by any law, even if it was a law on young people, but a comprehensive policy of a single state, which is why the SPO supports such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57370	MP Zeljko Ivanji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57371	Thank you. For the sake of truth, it's important to say that I never said that this law is a declaration, but that you can call it a declaration, it's your right, but unlike legalists, I understand the difference between the law and the declaration very well. This law, i.e. in this law, is good that there are no sanctions, because sanctions are provided for by other legal norms and other laws. That's the difference between German law and German law. We, thank God, have regulated areas in other laws, predicting sanctions and in the area of the protection of young people. That's good, I repeat again, that we don't have sanctions here. There can only be an example of the declaration of the norms of this law, given that these standards define young people as a special and particularly important group of people in this country. I would not follow other examples, it is important that we have, therefore, this law as well as six other European countries and it is important that we are avant-garde in this respect in relation to other countries. As for, therefore, some examples that compare us to Russia and China, I would not cite cases that happen in China about exploiting young people as cheap labour, or Russia that promotes, in a way, cheap and easy life. Therefore, this law is the right measure, and as I repeat sanctions, as I said earlier, sanctions are normised by other laws, and this law defines clear norms of the possibility of organising young people. So, giving them form and of course in some way and the possibility of them being organized. It's very important, but further definition is not on us, because the state can never be so creative as to come up with what young people will do within those organizations that they will form, thanks to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57372	National MP Rangelovic Nebojsa has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57373	Madam President, I thought I wasn't talking about these introductory members, but encouraged by the discussion, or by the presentation of the esteemed predecessor, I simply have to express my surprise and say that I don't understand this explanation. The rights and obligations give and regulate the Constitution, and the existing legislation sanctions violations and any other attributes related to violations of guaranteed rights and obligations. Then why this law? We didn't get an answer to the question we asked in the debate in principle. Who and what is this law bound by? The point of the law is to commit someone to something, and if that someone isn't acting in a disposition to follow the sanctions. What's with the law? I'd like to get an explanation for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57374	MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57375	I'll use the time of the authorised representative, Madam Chairman. So, I'm glad this law caused some similarity with our MPs and opposition and positions, and we expected that. We were in the debate in principle saying that the form was affected, but the essence is not, that the law is not good, that it's a simple pamphlet. When it comes to European values, Mr Chikiriz said, then carried to that thought, then all European countries should have this law on young people. There are six countries in the EU that have a law on young people, including us who are not members of the European Union, who join these countries. So this law does not have some European value in the matter of legislation. So that's when it comes to these European... Otherwise, the law also mentions our autonomous provinces, and this will also be the topic of debate in this afternoon's debate, it is also the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, since there are young people there too, I expect you to be involved in the debate when it comes to the interests of these young people and the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Autonomous Region of Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57376	MP Zeljko Ivanji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57377	The point of the law isn't just an obligation. The law also gives the right, and the advantage of this law is actually to give opportunity, even if sanctions are moral. As far as the moment is concerned, it means possible sanctions, of course, will be applied to the Law on Associations of Citizens who have prescribed sanctions for associations that are not the basis for their purpose and for their purpose. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57378	Mr. Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57379	I ask that this time be included in the time of the authorised representative. Don't mind my colleagues on the left and right that I'm going into their sphere, which they have a monopoly on a lot, but I have to quote to the bishop Rada, who wasn't just a poet and a bishop, but also a philosopher. He says in a single place, "When a woman asks me where I've been, I'll tell her I've been so shining." I just get the impression that I'm sowing salt right now, not wanting to hurt anyone, because I have to say this attitude to the law, as an act of state, I take my students on exams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57380	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57381	A very short replica, as regards the presentation of the esteemed colleague, Pejcic. Of course, it is good that Serbia has passed the Youth Law before some EU member states. This shows that Serbian legislation is not, as it is often wanted to be presented with a copying legislation in which someone issues exactly certain orders that you have to regulate certain areas just like that. I think there are standards, like a system of values, that are, above all, acceptable to us, so within the standards of different modifications. Of course, when it comes to the situation of young people who are not at a satisfactory level, we can also talk about the situation of young people, as a consequence of politics in the next 15 or 20 years, and we can also talk about the situation of young people during war conflicts from how many young people have suffered, unfortunately, become disabled in unnecessary wars, about young people and hyperinflation, about young people and sanctions and about the tendency of young people to wait in line in front of foreign embassies to leave first of all in the US and EU countries, not because they are not patriots, but because of the quality of life that has not given them their country. Of course, our goal is in a political sense that young people do not leave and that my system of values exists where in modern countries and developed countries our young people tend to be and remain an official state policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57382	MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the very interesting moment for us to get involved in these discussions, which are so quite correct, are different attitudes. The NS pointed out that there are no congenital norms here, that it may and may not have to do everything anyway, that the law is too declarative. It doesn't even have to be formed by the agency. All that can be understood. I would just like to briefly say to my colleagues, so well-intentioned, that what he pointed out would apply the Association Act, someone has to interpret it. Now I'm going to make a point of having a tax law. To interpret something, a natural or legal person will have to pay 10,000 dinars. It's all mutually connected. The law is quite imprecise and any interpretation, and suddenly we've raised taxes ten times. So it's not basically good. Imagine some young people, some associations, when you have to do something, and you say that I interpret what you said, with the right to say, ten thousand dinars of thousands of dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57384	First the minister. Here you are, Mrs. Markovic – Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57385	Thank you, Madam Chairman. As has already been said, the law has indirect sanctions because all the criminal provisions of the Association Act apply to our associations. Please also take a look at and say, Article 23, paragraph 5, which provides for sanctions for non-intentional spending of funds. The funds have to go back to the budget. I would only pray that words such as a simple pamphlet or something like that we heard in the debate in principle, because I would not want all those young people who worked on this and not just young people to be offended, there were plenty of them. Two-and-a-half thousand of them worked on this one and be kind, don't exactly call it a plain pamphlet and a second, so to speak, unsupervised names. For the sake of the public, I would like to meet all those MPs who may not have looked at and had opportunities for amendments, and those who are following this debate today. No parliamentary group, no amendment has proposed any sanctions. So please don't talk about the need for sanctions, when you have not proposed a single sanction in the amendments in order to improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57386	People's MP, Paicic Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57387	So, what I wanted to do was, there was a controversy, and I wanted to ask Mr. Chikiriz, what and in what context this law improves the status of young people. We have spoken and in principle we fear that and after this law there will be an army of dissatisfied who will leave this country. We told you that in the 1990s over 400,000 experts have left this country and that it costs this country about $12 billion. The greater loss of Serbia's loss and that these people did not do it here, in Serbia itself they did not prove themselves here. This is a law that is stereotyped as the law of the state of Romania. They have a similar law, maybe not all legal provisions, but they have a similar law. In this context of European values, I wanted to tell you, this law doesn't improve anything, except legalizes young people's offices. We have 123 and 99% of them in these youth offices are representatives of the ruling majority. So it's the essence of this law and nothing else. Otherwise, Madam Minister, we don't give the work of young people, not at all, not two and a half thousand. They're probably making an effort. However, we are here to tell you that the law at this time does not reflect the will of all young people. There are two and a half thousand young people who have entered the writing of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57388	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57389	Thank you. Madam Minister, when I say this, when I use this term of Madam Minister, I use it in accordance with the rules of gender equality and political correctness, rather than the seal of Branislav Nusic, which gave the concept. Don't mind, but I must now mention one segment of law theory. The amendments cannot be improved only by two types of legal norms: perfect legal norms and empty. From all the discussions we heard in the discussion of the principle, we found that the norms of this law were not perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57390	The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Mico Rogovic and Otto Kishmarton. First Mr. Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57391	Fellow Members of the People, let's continue for some boring discussion. Namely, my fellow MPs have already pointed to this so-called. The bill of youth, that there are no essential elements of the law, no criminal provision, no regulation of rights and obligations, is more like one declaration. The aim of the SNS has always been to fix the proposed laws. We have submitted amendments aimed at making the laws better and more acceptable for our citizens. In fact, let's make the law a law that is useful to the citizens of Serbia. Unfortunately, this bill is not the one that can be corrected by the amendment, so our amendments have been submitted with a goal, in this case, to point to many failures and many irregularities written in the law, as well as to all that it may not have been necessary to write a law, especially in this form.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57392	National MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57393	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in the beginning of a principle debate, we have said our opinion that this is one of the laws that has indeed experienced positive examples of public debate in practice, but you have stated that this law in legal practice only has six European countries, which shows the situation that countries, and that I am referring to the story of my previous colleagues, countries that have organised programmes, activities for young people and all standards in society, is not enough just to recognise EU standards, is enough to apply these standards. They don't have to have legal provisions and laws regarding this category. The population covered by this law is a category of young people, and the SNS is, reacting to the amendments to the previous members of this law and to the name of the text of this law, suggesting that the law is called a youth law, not a youth law, for the simple reason that the term "youth" has been repeatedly used even in other legal provisions, in other laws and somehow better laid in Serbian language than the term "youth" for the reason that it can experience all its forms of unity and plural in both female and male. After all, you will have to agree, Madam Minister, that your ministry has a name as it is – the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and you are in the preparation of this law, once again I return to this situation, indeed one of the laws that had a lot of public debates, included a relatively sufficient number of young people. What's the problem and why we reacted? We've really reacted for practical reasons. You haven't adopted the amendments, it's really not up to us, but the law, regardless of whether it remains in this original form, if society and society run by certain institutions, in this case the government you make up, and we are aware that you are not the minister who can solve all the burning problems in this country, nor can this resolve the law on young people. The respect of standards, conditions, measures, obligations, legal provisions that are prescribed and this law that will remain, roughly, in the original form, as you have suggested, is not up to us, not on young people, but depends on people who run society. In the areas where I live, in parts of western Serbia, you know what the rule is? Whoever comes out last, turn off the light. Enough to say about the situation, even though you as a minister, and you say that you are also in favour of a certain improvement in conditions, and you said that in your speech for a moment, do not take sufficient measures to improve the lives of young people, these legal provisions remain only on paper. This is proof that certain European communities, societies arranged, do not have to have this law to improve the lives of young people. After all, we lived in a social system that had no youth law, or youth law, so it led to a situation that I could write down every college, without any financial compensation, that I could have had the same rights, that is, all the rights of this world, the right to work, the right to an apartment and all the other fairy tales related to this time of the present. If the government you do, where you are, and we all don't make enough effort, this young law remains just one dead letter on paper. I said why we suggested that this law bear the name – the youth law. Why didn't you accept that, I have an understanding, because you yourself said that it was an acceptable version of the youth law or youth law. That the law deals with certain topics covered and governed by certain social norms is spoken by Article 1 of this Law and given that I was not physically present at that time when the chairman called for a parliamentary group, I would like to explain that on Article 1 of this proposal we have intervened with the amendment, in the sense that the text which has two positions has been replaced by the text that these laws regulate specific measures for the protection and improvement of youth positions, and you, among other things, say that the aim of the law is to create conditions for the support of young people on organisation, social functioning, development and the achievement of potential for personal and social well-being. This is another proof that this law does not have any legal provisions, nor can it have them, but that the people who run this society must, in particular in Article 1(2), adhere to everything that is good and improves conditions, in this case for this population of 15 to 30 years old. I'll discuss the other details in further exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57394	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57395	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been closely following a 10.00-hour debate and I have heard several interesting thesis when it comes to young people living in this country. Here it is said – the problem of young people. I think that young people are not the problem in Serbia, but are the solution to the problem. It goes on to say, some terminology that we hear here, whether there should be a law on young people or a youth law. Ask these people here who feel young, whether they feel young or feel young. Perhaps you, Mr. Markovic, too, are young in spirit and have made a balance between spiritual and physical, but to return to the subject of the agenda. Young people are not a problem, but they are a solution to the problem, but unfortunately, we heard the the thesis that once there was free schooling in this country, when young people were free to school. I was born in 1965 and I know very well what it was like to study free for us, working children. I know very well how much we paid for our college graduation and what our parents paid for, and never in this country schooling was free of charge, because every year free schooling was more expensive and expensive, only once schooling was possible, easier and more bearable for people who were richer, and for working children schooling has been hard, almost impossible for them. Always young people, who showed talent, value, knowledge, had the opportunity to finish that school, and always this country had the feeling of helping these people. It was a bigger problem for me when I graduated from college, which nobody asked me – what I know, but who I know. If I had known Mr. Markovic, who was a member of the SRS at the time, I would have probably got the job, but since I didn't know him then, and I didn't miss much that I didn't know him, then I didn't get the job, I had to work in private. On the other hand, when we discuss what the law is, I will read only two copies of the book "Parliamentary Procedural Law", where it best defines what the law should be. So the law is what it is, not what we'd want. The wishes were well spoken of by Mr., colleague, Mirko Chikiriz, and every day the standard of this country and the real possibilities that are what they are. That standard as it is, it's not the DS or the government of this country. I will remind only that we have had a situation where there has been prosperity throughout Europe, and in Serbia, unfortunately, there has been a major crisis. The value of one government is not manifested by making a crisis when it comes to all prosperity, but by the value of one government to say when in all countries it is in an environment, in Europe and in the world, a major crisis for the crisis not to be with us so much that it causes the country to break. There's a difference between some governments in this country. It's easy to be the boss of a house full of houses and it's easy when Zoran Djindjic comes along with his first reform government, so fill up that register and that cash register is full, easy to walk around and talk about afterwards – so we did what we did. Be master of the empty house, be master of the empty register, and you will see how difficult the work is in front of this government. Furthermore, when we talk about laws, I will say more – the law does not enhance the life of idealization for the sake of future reality for the sake of it. So we're making a law that will try to get young people in this way through legal form to integrate into Serbian society in such a way that these people have their place under the sun. It's not just the work of the Youth Act, it's the work of many other laws, and it's the work of a complete government, not just of this government, but of all future governments. Here some political parties of young people remember only when elections come, and some political parties show their relationship with young people when they find their place in the parliamentary benches for 10 young people, as the DS did. At the beginning of this term, 10 DS MPs were less than 30 years old. Do not criticise the possibility of anyone participating or not participating in a public debate in this law. Whether 2,000 people or 25,000 people participated, there has never been a more comprehensive debate in this country about a law like this. Everyone interested could participate in a public debate. There's a debate going on right now on about the Restitution Act. You know, the state made a call, the departments made calls, everyone's interested in coming out and saying -- we have a proposal or something like that. However, the mentality of the people in Serbia is such that they wait for almost a legal solution and do nothing until the legal solution is found in front of MPs in the Assembly, and then those who woke up late, those who didn't get some sleep in time, then those who say, you know, we didn't participate, we didn't know that the public debate lasted only a year, so we would now have some objections and objections to the law. I understand the justified late reaction, everyone has the right to be angry that he wasn't in time interested in solving his essential problems, but don't be angry with the government, with the minister, with the ministry, with the president of the assembly, with us MPs. For they say to me in Krushevec, whoever falls into the brook, let him be angry at himself, and not at Morab, not at the brook. Therefore, I really am not to blame anyone for not participating in the public debate and I am not to blame anyone who has now found a way to say – this law is not right, it could have been better. Any law could have been better. But, you know, we can pass laws through a public hearing that lasts ten years. I'm afraid then we won't do the job the way we have to do it. We have a situation in which the Republic of Serbia is located, and this is the situation that we really need to pass some laws by an urgent procedure, but this law was passed after a year of public debate and you cannot say that there is no public debate here in accordance with democratic principles and in line with the needs of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57396	National MP Momir Markovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57397	You know, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are some people, and there are some in this congregation, who have achieved absolute balance of spirit and body, they are as stupid as they are heavy. I didn't mention anyone, I didn't mention anyone's name, so you have no reason to review the Rules of Procedure. As far as education is concerned, there are among the MPs of people who, somewhere in the twilight and Serbian statehood and Serbian democracy prepared and high education, for example, with Colonel Robert Helvi, he prepared them in Budapest, Segedin and in some other cities of this country, so-called. non-violent resistance, and then with their fists, the bulldozers came out on October 5th, when that bulldozer revolution started, when the sky over Serbia lit on fire, the fire was quite large, they took the levers and helped enter all public enterprises. Someone with a gun with a sock on their head, someone with a sock on their head and a gun, and some of them, for God's sake, only with socks on their heads, because when the people saw them, they were running away with their heads. The United States, according to their sources, only to train these 27 million dollars here at the time. Then they sowed the bulldozer revolution, the resistances, all over the world, so, say, they went to Belarus...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57398	Time. Speaking of others, we're mostly talking about ourselves. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57399	Madam President, don't mind me getting involved in this debate again, but when I approached and seriously analyzed the legal norms contained in this law, I thought today we'd discuss the law, not social and sociological categories, and the replacement of the thesis. I'm convinced we're here to attend a terrible replacement of thesis. Of course, an analysis of social and sociological categories, given by fellow Milivojevic, I can agree with it, I may be able to resent something, but I can generally agree, but I didn't understand what it has to do with the law we're discussing today. Also, I didn't understand the nature of my colleague Markovic's response, which is actually just an extension of what my colleague Milivojevic tried to impose. I'm really expressing one dissatisfaction about the replacement of the thesis that's being imposed here. Proposers, or MPs from the government's majority, are trying to impose the thesis -- which is for the law, it is for young people, and who is against the law, it is against young people. Such a thesis is inadmissible. Such a thesis is inadmissible. I would go back to what we were just discussing and I would remind all those who participate in this debate if we hadn't received adequate answers to the questions -- what are the legal norms, why their content is such, why are standards used in law that don't have to go into laws, why notor categories from the Constitution are passed into the law, which is absolutely unnecessary, and not to list any further. When a member goes by a member, I will try to get involved and, in particular, to make one comment about those members I have in mind, as well as the amendments given by colleagues from other parliamentary groups. I ask the question to all of us in general – do we need this debate about this law and do we need to slave for thesis and put ourselves in context – who is for young people and who is against young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57400	National MP Milan Vukkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57401	I would support what my predecessor said about the debate itself. The debate is much broader than what the law is, and especially the amendment we are currently discussing, brings. It's about whether to use the term "young" as an alternative term for "youth". I'm close to both terms, I understand them, and I think it's a good thing that the law allows the term "young" to be used equally with the term "young" and that could stop the debate on this amendment. I also didn't see anyone impose a topic – if it's against the law, it's against the young, and if it's for the law, it's for the young. As far as I understand specifically your parliamentary group, you support this law because on the committee attended by your member, Marija Bulgarčić, she made it clear that if the ministry adopts your amendments, you will support this law, so that you support this law and do not consider yourself called in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57402	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57403	I thank you for your word. I didn't answer the line, I'd just like to give one explanation. Of course we're the law that regulates this matter, of course we've seriously studied the analysis we've received, which was done by the Department of Information and Research and Librarian Affairs, the Department of Information and Research, where one comparative legal approach is given. Of course we're for the law that regulates this matter but we're not for this law and we're not for this kind of regulation of this matter. We're not for the law to be filled with declarations without the essence of nothing. It's our basic grudges. I would pray that in this context our way is interpreted in both the debate in principle and the discussion in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57404	Parliamentarians Elvira Kovacač, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 3rd amendment. Miss Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57405	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Madam Minister and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to be back to a concrete agenda and to discuss concrete amendments. Today is Friday, a day when according to the Rules of Procedure usually the National Assembly does not work and certain MPs have parliamentary obligations and other obligations that work on themselves and improve the work of this high house. I will therefore, at the very beginning of my presentation, apologize and inform the President that I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group and that I will once address all three amendments submitted by SVM MPs. In the debate, we said in principle that the position of the Manjin Parliament Club and SVM is that this is a modern European law and that it is necessary. We are very pleased that today an interesting debate has opened on whether a special law on young people is needed and I am pleased that the distinguished predecessor mentioned that this is one of the rare occasions when we and the Department of Information and Research really get a quality analysis of how this issue has been resolved. So I want to respond to those who mentioned earlier that it may not be necessary for specific legislation on young people and that it is not a European norm, if we are only the sixth country to pass a special law, that is, because each country is trying and each one has some kind of law, perhaps not special, it is called different, but it is certainly significant. The Republic of Serbia thus proves that it really cares about young people. To go back to our amendments. First of all, I would like to commend the Ministry and my associates that there was indeed constructive debate on both the Committee itself and here and that our amendment regarding the values of the national youth strategy, where we added tolerance and democracy, is accepted, because we really believe that it contributes essentially to the text of the law. The SVM organized two weeks ago one last one, which is more like informal association with young people members of the Hungarian national community, where we discussed this bill. The amendments we have formulated are amendments to these young people who, with various circumstances, did not participate in public debates organised by the ministry. Despite this amendment, which has been accepted, we have proposed an amendment and it is extremely important for them, because they are afraid of being accidentally excluded from the advisory role of the Youth Council and we have therefore proposed that representatives of national councils of national minorities should also be counted in the Youth Council. Here we thought most of all about what certain national councils have, in addition to the boards dealing with education, information, official use of language and culture, means four of the most important areas for the survival of national minorities, certain national councils of national minorities also have a youth committee. For example, the National Council of Hungarians has a Youth Committee. So we thought they should be included. Of course, this, on the one hand, has been opened by the Pandora's box, because it has 19 national councils of national minorities and needs to be resolved how to include them all. Therefore, I would like to inform both the public and the honourable MPs who received this morning the correction of our amendment, which is that we are not proposing representatives of national councils of national minorities, because this would be a large number, but a common representative of national councils of national minorities, and we hope that the minister will say that the amendment in this form is acceptable to the ministry and that in the day for the vote and the other MPs will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57406	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57407	Since the People's Parliament wanted to be publicly and directly expressed as to whether the amendment to Article 16(2) is acceptable for the Ministry. The bill, after saying "the office for young people", adds the words "the joint representative of national councils of national minorities", I take the opportunity to say that this is acceptable for the ministry. We accept this kind of corrected amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57408	The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the respected members of the ministry, we had an interesting debate here that was principled and there was a proposal to stick to the amendment. To a large extent, I will try very hard to stick to Article 3 which I have submitted to the amendment, but I cannot say before that in the principle debate we have clearly shown enough that we have here an act that represents something that is not the law. Further, I think, we have made it quite clear that Germany has a law, not on young people, but on the protection of young people, where it highlights the measures it protects: the ban on alcohol use, the ban on entering cafes, the ban on certain film content, etc., very specific things. If you had offered us a law on the protection of young people, that would have been another thing. What did I say with the amendment? Let's get out of this general discussion, so if there's any need, we will. Your university professor points out that his students fall when they give him this definition, and I read the definition of the law in the basic textbook, and you still insist on being right. What is not nice, this is a proposal from the government, and you, Madam Minister, are authorized here by the Government to make this proposal to the government, in which young people must have participated in the way you told us, which we welcome, no more to talk about young people. We're talking about the government and you. In particular, you use your knowledge and authority when defending this. What did I say? The amendment in Article 3(2) shall be deleted. In a very brief explanation, I wrote: "the amendment has been submitted with the intention of removing from the bill a provision that is excessive". The aim of the amendment is to improve the text of the law. So, you could say that he's well-intentioned, and here's what I said about erasing, although the whole member is controversial, and that's what I've been explaining to you in principle. All the terms used in this law are gender neutral, impossible. Please, through these legal norms here you want to bring down and what's a grammatical rule, in Serbian-Croatian language, the nouns are three-born, they have three storks, and the stork can be natural and grammatic. What you wrote might be, in case someone wants to, say, do it the way you said youth activities, no gender. So if it's a freak, if it's a monster, it's possible, there are such situations, but in this way to mock, don't. We have made it clear to you that what you have put youthful work on, if you look at what you have written in this article -- represents that part of youth activities that are organized with young people and for young people in informal education. So, if a young person is studying and passing an exam, she hasn't been preparing her own exam, by your definition. This is the kind of trouble you're importing through the law here. If you had proposed a law on the protection of youth and wanted to follow the real problems that young people face and solve through legislation, we would have supported this. What is the basic problem of youth in Serbia? You insisted that we use the documents and quote them. Well, here's what I'm telling you now is a document by Dusan Mojić "The Poverty of Young People in Serbia" from this year, I can give it to you. This is clearly said – the position of young people in Serbia is marked as an extorted, extended youth, completion of education, employment and family-based problems. This law of yours has not tried to protect any of the key problems. Is that a problem? Here's what research says - the impact of the economic crisis on the position and vulnerable groups in Serbia's labour market, the FREN Fund for Economic Sciences, with the financial support of the UN Development Programme, Goran Krstic and Mihajl Andadrenkov are authors and in the table display, that I don't bother you with the rest, compared in 2009 and 2008 with different bullish categories and employment and says – a significant deterioration only in the youth category. Both the latest and most recent data from the deputy labour ministers, the assistant is probably called Radmile Bukumirović-Katic, who is 23 May – young and harder than ever to get to work and even 46% of them between 15 and 24 are unemployed. About 20% of young people are employed in the gray economy. By what you've given, I'm going back to being a member now, if we could recognize any good intention of solving this, then here in definitions, there wouldn't be any senseless definitions that I can do youth work, I explained that I, Paja Momchilov, from my 62 years of age, can't do youth work, neither grammatically nor logically, and I can do work in favour of youth, or, if you want, youth institutions. That's quite possible. But when you read what you wrote here, it doesn't say. For you, too, since we talked about language problems, I have also prepared Egon Fecket's language impressions with a certain article that I am very happy to make available to you, in order to prove what I'm saying, that I may still have a right. What in this article, if you had written the network, the definition of the youth employment network, we would have said – you see, they saw a big problem of the young and they wanted to introduce one term, and why is that necessary? Well, here's what you need for simple reasons because if we look at documents, resolutions on promotion and youth employment, in principle, I have cited to you all UN documents, Europe, where the key problems of young people are, and in the strategy you've done well, exactly what we've been saying, education, then we've said employment and, of course, this specificcum, late marriage and family achievement. Now, in 2002, the Resolution on the Promotion of Employees ordered the organisation of a youth employment network, and in 2003 we received the document from the UN. No, there's no such thing here. What's in this article 3? I'm only sticking to a member of my third dear colleague. You say who are the subjects of youth policy – the Republic, AP and units of local self-government as bearers of youth policy. I guess they're young, I guess they're young carriers. If you give them prerogatives and make laws and write and hide behind their backs, then you should have put them in the first place of the subjects, if you wanted to. It is precisely, as counterpart Milivojevic says, not with phrases, not empty words, but with works being proven, most convincingly young, 30 years old and less had an SRS at the time of the opening of the previous elections. And you can see that and that's clear. What you didn't do, why did you pass this law? You've brought a strategy, which is a good, action plan, about not talking about it. You didn't bring politics. This gathering had to bring the policy you were ordered to bring and then through legal solutions to make it happen. To finish this presentation at this point, you have clearly shown it by this law what the only goal is, and that is because of the 29 members of this law, there is a chapter with seven members, which you spend on tobacco youth, which is the essence of how Serbia's citizens' budget money is allocated. The main problem is that you spend the money in this way not focusing on the burning problems of 4.5% of the GDP that we single out is too little for basic education, and 90% of which goes to wages, 0.86 for science and development. If you look at the structure of scientific workers, age, all that money you've been saving, and you've spent a lot of money in the budget, your three billion over a billion has gone to the NGO sector. And what's the score? Only sicker people and young people, I have that data here and only the unemployment rate to over 40% that was announced in May of the month. And she said the assistant minister for work where money should be put in, not in vain like this, you'll do useless projects with bad results. That's why we certainly can't even vote for a bad law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57410	Minister Markovic-Samardzic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57411	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First, I would have to inform both you and the public that out of the over a billion dinars we had last year in the 481 budget for NGOs, 160 million went for the youth, while everything else went to sports. So everything else went to sports. I kindly ask you not to interpret it then, as if we've spent all a billion dinars on youth. I'd like to spend more on youth and sports, but precision works - 160 million went to youth projects. Also, I'm glad you mentioned the UN. It is an opportunity to inform you that the Youth and Sports Ministry is working on youth employment issues, i.e. youth unemployment precisely through the "MBJ Fund" of the UN and that 480 young people in Serbia have been employed last year, based on the project. I will tell you that unfortunately this law could not address the issues that you mentioned in your presentation, so I will tell you that the issues of combating these negative phenomena which unfortunately affect our young people in Serbia, for example, are dealt with. The Law on Local Self-Government, which prescribes in Article 20, the jurisdiction of the municipality to regulate the working hours of cafes and educate inspection services, etc., then the Consumer Protection Act, too, the issue of alcohol and other problems that young people face. We also have the Law on Advertising, the Law on Tobacco, and we have the Law on Community Police and, however any MP mentions what this law has not done, I will always, always let me, because you always mention what problems there are, I will always read which laws in Serbia regulate these issues. Accordingly, it was not possible by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, or by this law to regulate. The last thing I wanted to read was what this amendment wanted to erase. This amendment, which you have proposed, should be deleted in Article 3(2), which reads: "All the terms used in this law are used naturally neutrally." First of all, why don't I accept this provision? We've rejected this because erasing it then reduces standards, generally accepted standards relating to gender neutral terminology. So, they don't apply, and neither do we advocate any "freaks" as you say or "no birth," but to the terminology that, among other things, the equality of women in this way implies implicitly. I don't see how, if we were to delete this view that reads, "all the expressions used in this law are born neutrally", I don't see how we can improve youth employment in this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57412	Thank you. National MP Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57413	I support this amendment by MP Paia Momchilov to delete the second point of point 3. The bill, which uses the terms used in this law, is used as gender neutral. The term "born neutral" means nothing. Or, if you use it as you suggest, it wouldn't apply to anyone. There is no birth neutrality in the biological being of man, nor as a concept in Serbian, because all concepts are clearly defined both gender and grammatical with three genders – male, female and middle. There's no need to use such expressions in laws, under the pretext of so-called. political correctness. In addition to not explaining anything, this term represents another one in a series of expressions that have real terror over Serbian language, such as violence against thought forms and language as their manifestation. It is simply political violence against the Serbian language. We have warned of this many times, whenever proposals were put before this House for laws in which similar situations were found. Fortunately, such amorphous, wrong and unnecessary expressions of the Serbian language of alleged experts are not accepted among citizens, but vice versa. What concerns is the arrogant tenacity of which these expressions are pushed everywhere. They flooded the regime's media, and it is devastating in Serbian as they enter official documents, such as laws, regulations, decisions, official statements and statements. All of this leads to the idea that it's being done in an elaborate and hidden way. It is quite another thing that someone in their speech will use certain concepts. It's his right. But imposing everyone under the law is inappropriate. The term "born neutral" doesn't have a foothold in linguistics, so its use has no justification, especially in an act of law. We in the Serbian Parliament have passed the Law against Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality. They contain all the specifics that commit to equal opportunities and gender equality in all areas of action. That, of course, applies to this law. The amendment by Parliamentarian Paia Momchilov to delete this position of Article 3 is entirely meaningful. The bill, because the term "born neutral" cannot be placed in any birth category. In an explanation of why they do not accept this amendment, they wrote – it is not accepted because the provision whose erasure is proposed in accordance with the generally accepted standards relating to gender neutral terminology. It was in this member who spoke, which defines certain terms and terms, to define what it means – gender neutral terminology with other terms, of course, along with this, in order to make it clear to us what these terms refer to in so-called. the new address of the so-called Our experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57414	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57415	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, regarding this member, I have been paying attention to the amendments to Article 3. Personally, as someone who deals with law, or at least tries to practice law, I would like to get an answer to the question why is it detached from some of the new technical principles in writing the law? This article is called – the meaning of certain terms in this law. That means that some standards are respected right. Now some explanations are given. First of all, I don't understand why notorious concepts are explained in this way? Then here from 1 to 5, where you go from general to special, there are some logically unsustainable items. First of all, youth activities are defined, their definition is given, then a step towards special and what youth work is said to be, and then youth work is said to be part of youth activities organised with young people and for young people and based on informal education, and then an explanation is given of what informal education is. In my opinion, some explanations here defy the rules of logic. For example, if one remembers to reorganize youth’s work, can it be put under the idea of youthful work? I don't understand how physical work which is the basic attribute of youth work can be placed in the category of informal education? I think that from the new technical population, this member was quite unskilled, so I would like to be given an explanation – who was doing it and why was it so done?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57416	The Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57417	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You were talking about Article 3 of Item 2 to Item 5, if I'm not mistaken, right? (Nobojsa Rangelovic from Place: Stav 3, 4 and 5.) Item 3, 4th and 5th well, you're a professor and you're a law teacher. I'll tell you, this member has two points. You were probably talking about dots. I'm sorry, as much as you know about the nomenclature, or that discourse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57418	With all due respect to what the Minister has stated, it is, of course, a lapus because this is the alphabet of the law, or the theory of state and law, or the alphabet of legal normation, so it is a lapus. Essentially, I did not get an answer to the more fundamental attributes of my question. So, I repeat again, it's about the lapus. Of course, law students, not law professors, know what a member is, what a point is, and I pray he doesn't mind my lapus, and I ask for an answer to the essential attributes of my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57419	Madam Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57420	Thank you. Here we've counted exactly the meaning of terms so that we can be able to regulate them later and finance the activities of those who are counted as carriers, as entities and what will be the activities that will be financed under this law. That's why we needed to count them. Also, this has been achieved by a consensus of a number of people who worked on this, who are also, I must tell you, lawyers. In addition, do not underestimate those who work in the state administration and whose hands this has also been through, because this has passed after a public debate and has gone through the procedure of various ministries in the government, the lawyers also work there, in our secretariat for legislation also the lawyers do, and since I am not a lawyer, I am still forced to rely on their knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57421	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57422	With all due respect, I'd have realized if I hadn't gotten an answer to the question I asked. My question was about the essence, and I really couldn't say that I was satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57423	National MP Milan Vukkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57424	Thank you. I am against the acceptance of the amendments proposed by the SRS parliamentary group, specifically Mr. Paja Momchilov, which is proposed to delete in Article 3 that defines the meaning of certain terms in this law the position 2 which reads - all the terms used in this law are used naturally neutrally. The debate you gave us, therefore, the MPs of the SRS, did not convince me that this member should be deleted, on the contrary, language is a living thing. Today, we do not speak the language of the Holy Sava, we do not speak the language spoken in 17, 18, 19, or the 20th century, because language is a matter that develops and integrates itself, including, values that we strive for, and values that we want to promote. Trend is everywhere in the world, in the advanced part of the world, I'm not talking about those countries with which you might think we should have the most friendly relationship possible, I'm talking about the countries of the advanced world. There is a tendency everywhere to use the terms locally neutrally and to use what makes your ears shut, which is the term gender neutral or some of the expressions used for the profession of the female, also to me and how it closes your ears when I hear from you - Madam President, and we all see that the president of the National Assembly is a woman, and that is clear to us, and you say - Madam President. In my opinion, it's violence against language. That's what keeps my ears shut. If it was a 19th-century spelling, so now it's the 21st century, I guess it's time to change things. If you think it's offensive to someone's ears and to someone's tongue, I find it much more offensive to swear, especially when it's in the National Assembly, especially when it's in court, it's a much more offensive curse to me than to say it naturally neutrally. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57425	A minute and 58 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. National MP Pai Momchilov has his word, 52 minutes is the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57426	To finish this one, it looks like a grammar debate after all. Dear colleagues, I will not insist on defending my position. Thank God, other people who are more professional will be able to assess this. I simply repeat - all the terms used in this law are used naturally neutrally. That's impossible. The term – education cannot. He has a relative. No noun in Serbian can be used naturally neutrally. You understand that. Well told we also have the law on bans, on discrimination and half-and-a-half races and everything, and that there are perfectly clear situations. This is something that's impossible. There's another thing, you're completely confused. So we're talking about these numbered entities here. They can't be used, they have their own kin. The number can be eliminated in Serbian, in the case of aggregate directory and abstract. That's what they taught you in elementary school. That's where you gave us a lecture from this bench about how pleonasm, God, coordination and coordination - is not. That's two different things. The coordination is when you have multiple subjects and you bring them into a relationship, and the coordination is when you want to emulate something, one way or another. I mean, don't give us those lessons here or at least stick to what's right. To finish what you're about to say here, that it's not nice to refer to the chairman of the male race, I couldn't agree more. I'm using as I can and I'm trying to tell the president, it's not hard for me. I never speak to the president. Egon Fecket, the brother-in-law, says like this, I'm closing the discussion, I'm just going to tell you two things, so they're clear to you. It draws the crown conclusion that the shape of a grammatical male generation is a noun, in fact just a neutral mark, a colleague, a neutral mark, said linguist, and it's nice to say, we now have young ladies in the army - a merciful is a good soldier, we can't say soldier. When you say school, it's gender, it's not just girls going to school, dear fellow, men go, and there goes neutrality, mostly, and it doesn't have to. Don't ask us here to honor the basic elements of literacy that we don't even know under number two to abuse them. Don't, please, free us from this manner. We may not be politically good, appropriate, maybe our ideas aren't good, but we're fighting with arguments, not qualifications. Madam Minister, I haven't had a chance to respond, she says – it went to sports all for NGOs, that 160 million went from budget to youth. Wrongly, sport is mostly professional, maybe not. We'd be more invested in maybe young people, especially if we're referring to the numbers I've told you here. What can I tell you, adolescents in Serbia? Did you know that our adolescents are working, according to UNICEF's latest data, I keep them here? Our kids from four and five years of age work, they're in tables. Did you know that our adolescents are getting married and having children, girls of 14 and 15 and 16? And here we are in these statistics. And now I understand, I congratulated you for winning the May Sports Award. It's all clear to me now. It's a prize given by athletes, top-notch and sports workers, and you've got it this year. I totally understand why. I'm withdrawing my card.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57427	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a minister of sports and youth, Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57428	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm just taking the opportunity to point out, so that we don't stay, we might move on to Article 4, and I don't think the rest is clear and the professor wasn't satisfied, or the MP wasn't satisfied with how it might be. I've counted why we've given these points in Article 3 different terms, and if I'm not mistaken, it wasn't clear to you on the issues of youthful work, you mentioned that these are youthful work actions. I am taking the opportunity for both you and the public to inform that the EU Council in November 2010 adopted a resolution on youth work and that we have the NAPOR Association in Serbia. This is the association and practice of youth work made up of 77 associations of citizens, supported the idea of putting youth work into the law, among other things, and because it is not defined as such in any other law. That's another indicator of why a law like this is needed. Because these definitions have to exist somewhere, because someone, too, not someone, but a serious number of people do youth work. Also, two universities in Serbia introduce as their profile in education, education of people who will deal with youth work. I prefer to think it's justified. Also, I'll tell you that in the 2020 agenda that has been mentioned and that you, too, seem to have mentioned, youthful work has been apostrophe as one, as I say, of civilization values that must be respected. We felt it was appropriate that there was nothing similar in the youth law, as I said in any other normative act in our Republic, such a thing is defined because it is of paramount importance for working with young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57429	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57430	I thank you for your word. Obviously we didn't understand each other. Your Honor, Madam Minister, you were talking about the illustration I gave. My question was – why did it deviate from certain standards that are used in the right and certain rules of nomtechnics? I tried to illustrate something that defied the rules of logic, and I think it was necessary to give an answer to this previous question of mine, that is, the only one I've asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57431	National MP Milan Vukkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57432	Ladies and gentlemen, in my previous address, I spoke of the values that are expressed when we use individual terms, when we use a particular language. Of course, I don't think the MPs of the SRS, especially MP Pai Momchilov, are illiterate or do not know the grammar of the Serbian language. Far away. You're educated people. Although there were interesting situations when the debate was in principle. One of your MPs had a very interesting idea of how to use some expressions, but I didn't intervene at the time, I didn't answer for the word that I was correcting it, because this isn't the place for grammatical debates. If anyone has a problem with grammar, let them see it somewhere else. Here I was talking, first of all, about values and that the trend in the world, and thank God and with us, is that expressions are used regularly neutrally. You, when you look at it, say in the United States, are some expressions that insult the dignity of national minorities, which exist in the 19th century literature, even in the books of Mark Twain, who was a great writer and could not be said to be racist. So the expressions that insult the sentiment of black people in America, African-Americans, change in lecturing, in order to write those who may be politically correct. You can also call it violence against language, but this literature must express the values of today's 21st century. Otherwise, if we're going to stick to tradition, let's stick to that pre-Christian tradition and that's the same tradition of the Serbian people and the Slovenian tradition in this area, so I wouldn't be sure to discuss grammar with you, I respect you, I said, first of all, things that are about values. When you use some expressions and when you say Mrs. President, that's how you send a message, whether you know it or not. I'm glad you don't use that term yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57433	A minute and 55 seconds of time spent on an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57434	I will be very brief within the time of the parliamentary group. I believe that the debate is being conducted in one direction, of course by representatives of the majority in which there is really no reason to lead and it is confirmed that time is being spent on form, not substance. We have disputed essentially why this law is pointless, unusable, it will not bring anything else, and here we are dealing with some formal debate that detests something that really, if the SRS is imputed, really doesn't make sense. It may be grammatically incorrect to say Madam President, Madam Vice President, but what we're talking about here, that what stands and what is written in the law really shouldn't stand in the law, it gives us even the Constitution for the right. Dear colleague Vučković, page 51. The Constitution, under Article 110, regulates the position of the President of the Republic. I ask you today, is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia standing somewhere to use all the terms and terms used here naturally neutrally? Is the fact that the constitution limits any woman in Serbia to being a candidate and to be elected president? It doesn't limit it. Two pages earlier, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia reads, the composition of the National Assembly, the president and vice president of the Assembly. This assembly has Ms. Djukic-Dejanovic as president, means Mrs. President and has four or five vice presidents. Since you are calling for a formal, or developed, advanced world, here I am asking you, Mr. Vukkovic, how in the United States, as the president says in English? What do they call the secretary of state as a female? They're either "president", or they're "miss", or "mis President", or "Mr. President", but he's "president" -- president. So, don't poison yourself with nonsense, this is completely excessive, pointless, unnecessary in law, because the minister, I suppose, the minister, said, there are laws on gender equality, bans on discrimination, etc. Don't impute something that doesn't really stand. We believe that what has been introduced into the law is completely unnecessary and excessive, if this can be called a law at all. I don't think that kind of banal stuff really should be burdened by this discussion. Prove and convince us that what you have brought before us MPs will indeed give some effects and results to the young world in Serbia, not how we address the President of the Assembly, or the Vice-President of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57435	Three minutes used by the MP's group. National MP Milan Vukkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57436	Dear colleagues, Mr. Stevanovic, how would you feel if I called you "Mr. Messengers"? I don't think you'd feel comfortable and that you shouldn't just put yourself in men's skin, but also women. I also ask the president to intervene, because the question is, am I normal? I am normal, I have no other way to explain to you a more practical way to explain what I'm talking about. English is different from Serbian, but the term that was classical in England and America during the 19th century "head man", today is said "head of wool", if it is the chairman rather than the chairman. Instead of "me hot," which used to mean humanity, it's called "human time," so the expressions change, the language changes just some things don't seem to change. I know there are younger generations in the U.S.S., and I call on her to accept what the liquids of the modern world are.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57437	One minute and 15 seconds used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57438	Dear colleague, you obviously, not you in general, not yourself, on that side where 126 counts you, you have one problem and that's perception essentially in the meaning of the letter. I deeply believe that your colleague who sits behind you is not a Member of the Parliament, an MP may also send a patriarch, for example. The distinguished colleague sitting behind you is a lady, or a Member of Parliament. Don't get poisoned and split by it, it's completely pointless. Leave what it says in America, as they call both humanity and the chairman, etc., etc. Now you're going to convince us that mother and father should call one of our parents. You'll deny us the right to swear properly, Serbian. I mean, you know, it's so banal going, now we'd be more Catholics than the Pope and you're political life and political relations you're burdening yourself with nonsense, you're burdening yourself with nonsense by calling yourself to the world. Why should we as universal and binding accept something that is in this developed world when these things are? I don't mind some good standards being accepted, but don't burden us with the president's name, as the Constitution has clearly defined and said, but it does not amnesty or deny the ability to be a candidate, to be an MP, to be a minister, etc. These are very pointless discussions because you impose them and promote them as such. There is no need to convince us that this will improve the position of young people in Serbia, so that we may eventually support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57439	Two minutes used by the MP's group. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57440	In short, what my dear colleague has said, sitting next to me, a young man, is just the essence. This is where one quasi scientific debate is now being conducted, so that all faults and shortcomings of the law, which is before us, will be hidden, and they will not be talked about. A young colleague, English and Serbian differ, when it comes to nouns and gender, since the Serbian language has both grammatical and birth forms. So that's a big difference, and you need these basic things to know, when you engage in a discussion like this, in a place like this and in front of millions of our viewers, they look at you, and believe me, those who taught you the Serbian language. So, please don't. He told you nicely that he called himself "the president", such as "jour intercessions", how sovereign, any great country, empires are referred to, and that is quite clear. I ask you to move on to the amendments, the chairman, you often know that very well-intentioned and end some pointless debate. Please take advantage of your right to do some amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57441	One minute and 20 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger is your amendment. That the term "born neutral" is still talking about that amendment. Stop what? (Paja Momchilov: senseless logic and grammar.) I know that, but if the debate is pointless, I don't know, but the debate is about the amendment. Your amendment reads: "To delete, the terms are gender neutral". It's your amendment and everyone's talking about your amendment. (Paia Momchilov: Not about him, but in exchange. I was talking about logic, and here it's about lexique. ) National MP, logical or lexical, is your amendment to delete, that terms are gender neutral. Everyone from their point of view talks about what they think they know about gender neutrality or about the nature of the language in which there is or does not exist. If that wasn't the case, I would, of course, remind you to talk about the agenda, but this is your amendment. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57442	I thank you for your word. I'd like to make another clarification. The linguistic debate does not spring from what needs to be a debate on amendments, because the basic means of the lawyers is language. So the linguistic or linguistic interpretation of the legal norm is also a very important segment of legal normation. So I would disagree that linguistic debates about individual members or the law in general are unnecessary. On the contrary, I insist that they be needed. Then I would add, let it be a remark to those who defend this law, or to fellow Members of the ruling majority. I'm disappointed you can't write the law, and I'm even more disappointed that you can't defend what's defensive. Then I, as a representative of the opposition, must defend it. Tongue is a living thing. Language standards that were valid in the Serbian-Croatian language in the 1960s, if you are looking at the Srpnik Matice Srpske no longer apply. Both Dusan's Codex and the 1835 and 1838 constitution were written in Serbian, but they now require a translator. Therefore, it is also important to respect that the language is a living thing and that it develops and respects the fact that standards change languageically. So it's not just political correctness to talk about gender equality in this context that we're talking about. This is also the need for living language development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57443	One minute and 50 seconds. It's just, if you'll excuse me, MP, you've used seven minutes so far. Should I count on it from the time of the authorized representative? (Yes) All right, from the time of the authorised representative. So it's time for the parliamentary group to be fully available, and this is from the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we see from the debate so far that most of the MPs present in the hall think this is a very bad law, that it may not have been discussed in the Assembly and that it would be better to withdraw this legislative proposal. We've suggested deleting a member of the Fourth Law. Why? I will read as Article 4. whose title says – The principle of support for young people, "all of them, and especially youth policy entities in the context of their jobs or in part, support the social empowerment of young people in a manner established by law, strategy and other youth policy instruments". What does this member regulate? In fact, this member of the bill is unclear, unnecessary, because it does not determine anyone's rights and obligations. It represents a classical non-declarative provision, but without any meaning that could help better understand and clearer the interpretation of the law. The very technique of writing a provision is very problematic because it says that everyone supports it. In fact, the question arises, what does this legal proposal bring to young people new? Nothing. What will change with this law in favour of young people? Probably nothing. Is it the most important thing for young people to pass this law, as is the establishment of an office for young people, or perhaps, since we are talking about young people who are between 15 and 30 years of age, who are most of them, are mostly educated, high school students, students, graduates and college students, married, married, married, married, is it the most important thing for them to socialize and form an office, or is it possible to solve the generality of this situation in society and the employment of these young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57445	Thirty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to Minister Snezani Samardzic – Markovic, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87 so that the MPs can plan today, we will work after 18.00 hours today, but only until we finish searching the details of the law we are currently considering. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic – Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57446	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since the question is why is this member the way he is set up in law, I wouldn't talk so much about the very meaning, because we think that each member has its own deep reason for being here. In order to explain things that you probably don't know about, I'm going to tell you that for us especially it was about empowering young people and that the obligation that is being introduced here is the central theme of empowering young people. I will tell you that on 27 April 2009, the European Commission adopted a new EU strategy for young people, called Youth, Investment and Strengthening. We aim to be able to use these legal provisions, all those who are subjects of youth policy, at least three elements that are listed as objectives, and have nine objectives of this strategy, but three elements are important for empowering young people. We will thus practically create an introduction to use these elements tomorrow, possibly EU funds for these elements. What are these elements? Creating more opportunities for young people in the field of education and employment, improving access and enabling full participation of young people in society and strengthening solidarity between young people in society. These are the three elements that were most important to us in the context of the empowerment of young people with nine goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57447	Anyone else want a word? MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57448	I think it's interesting again, just for the sake of the public, that one parliamentary group says the law should be withdrawn and suggested that the most important provisions be deleted. At the same time, the same parliamentary group submits many amendments to improve the law. It is now best that one and the same parliamentary groups take a unique stand among their own MPs, whether the law should be withdrawn or improved. It can't be pulled back and improved at the same time and it can't be politics. Secondly, of course I am against eradicating Article 4 because it is one of the most important members in the legislative proposal, because it speaks of the essence of one of the fundamentalities of the legislation. Surely, using what Mrs. Minister has said, surely every time from the ruling majority, we will react in a situation where we want to, what regulates this law, interfere with other laws and with the general state of society. This law will certainly improve the position of young people, but it certainly will not solve all the problems of young people. Youth problems will solve general state policy and other legal proposals. The position of young people, and we can say this in the shortest possible terms, is completely unsatisfactory, but the responsibility for those who changed their own policy two years ago, I am primarily thinking of the members of the SNS, because they are now seeking the highest prize for policy change. They admit publicly, they say – for 18 years we have led the wrong policy, and then we have seen it, then we are politically mature and now they are asking the electoral body to be rewarded and to lead the state because they have admitted that they have been politically wandering for 18 years. Then let those who are 21 years on the threshold of the same policy be sanctioned. In that sense, no matter what we disagree, most often, with the policy of the SRS, their policy is fair. They have been against the EU, European standards, Euro-Atlantic integration since the beginning, and there is no policy change. I can discuss with a respected colleague why the position of young people today is what it is. It's because of their policy they've been conducting for 18 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57449	Three minutes used by the MP's group. National MP Otto Kishmarton, two minutes. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57450	A former colleague said that I had suggested that it would be best to withdraw this legislative proposal, and we have submitted a number of amendments. We have submitted a number of amendments and in our first address to the Assembly. I said that the objective of the amendment is not to correct this law, because we think this law is so bad that it cannot be fixed, but just to point out everything that is not right in this bill, everything that should be fixed. It does not mean that in order to repair the law, it is best to write a new law that will be in the interest of young people, or youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57451	National MP Mico Rogovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57452	Right on the line. Dear colleague, when you talk about state policy, you can't help but remember that for 20 years you've been ruling in the Republic of Serbia. When you talk about this law, you can't, and neither can you, Madam Chairman, allow this stream to go in another direction because of the filling of various gaps. Also, when you say - general state policy - what I said to the Minister, you cannot not remember last night's story in which your MP is having a discussion for 20 minutes with the minister from the SPS and what kind of state policy you can have after such a debate. A problem that does not make this law by its own application, but by the real people who make up this government and their behaviour, will they comply with EU standards? I must remind you once again that you are only making this government because of your political marketing, because of your situation that you only know and to remind you of the debate that took place in this House last night, on the subject of asking parliamentary questions to ministers from the government, went between you, members of the same government, in the context of a debate between your MP and the minister from the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57453	One minute and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57454	I repeat again, a lot of manipulation, and a lot of lies, precisely for the sake of the importance of the debate, not only of this law, but of all the laws and of the institution in which we are talking. It wasn't the 21st SPO in the government. Had he been 21 years old, we would have accepted reforms necessary, social and political and economic in 1990, we would have been the leaders of Serbia's European path and now the state of Serbia would be a NATO pact member. They'd avoid wars, sanctions... (Chairman: People's Parliament, please on the agenda. You've been given the right to speak in the time of the MPs' group. )......................................................................................................... I apologize, the chairman, for harsh lies have been made. The SPO took part in the federal government for two and a half months... (President: National MP, I warn you, the rules are equal for all. Agenda theme, Article 106.) ... Only two and a half months at the time of the federal government and the government of Vojislav Kostunica from 2003 to 2007 and we have been in this government since 2008 and that is a notorious fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57455	One minute and 10 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. National MP Otto Kishmarton has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57456	Just for a little while. We have proposed erasing and Article 5 of this Act because this article says – all young people are equal, discrimination is forbidden, etc. The issue of equality and the prohibition of discrimination is more fully and clearly set out in Article 21. The Constitution and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, so this provision is also too high in this law and can serve only to make one slightly larger law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57457	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. National MP Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the President-in-Office, Honored Madam Minister, the amendments the New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted would change the essence of this law, but we were convinced that it would be accepted, understood and accepted for this amendment. In Article 5(2), after the word "everyone is forbidden", we asked the amendment to delete the word "unjustified". Why? Because the proposed text of the bill says this: "It is forbidden to make an unwarranted distinction or to treat young people equally." We believe that the word "unjustified" after the word "everyone" must be deleted, because otherwise it allows there to be a valid difference, and that is inadmissible, because this "everyone" rules out. So this is called tautology in lexic, grammatical and professional language interpretation. Therefore, this article should read, in this first sentence, "It is forbidden to make any difference or to treat young people equally". In your explanation for not accepting the amendment, you have just given such a view of this member. It means you don't want there to be any difference in the principle of equality of the prohibition of discrimination. If you put the word "everyone," then you can't possibly put "unjustified" because that word with negativity suggests that it's allowed to exist. It's forbidden to make any difference. I think it was the intensities of the legislator. Just think about that sentence, as it says. This is indeed a word that fundamentally changes and, if it remains in the law, essentially allows, which may and may not have to be misused at any time, but it must not introduce this kind of termological inaccuracy in its member of the law. Please think about it, because we really expected this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57459	The word is made by Minister Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57460	There has been a lot of debate in the public debate on this, however, the largest number of participants has been identified for the possibility of positive discrimination, especially for those among the vulnerable groups, and that is why we have identified what you have called a negative. For this reason, we did not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57461	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57462	I'll just say for a little while, if you keep this appointment, you'll allow discrimination. You're just doing the opposite of what you've explained. I say your intensity was to eliminate any kind of discrimination. You put aside that sentence and you'll see, you'll hear how termologically it sounds, so if something is unwarranted, it means there's something that's justified. You have placed every one of them unjustly. That you only kept the term, everyone, that's positive discrimination. So you allow some kind of discrimination and then you change the essence of your relationship to positive discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57463	The word is made by Minister Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57464	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57465	I understand that the Minister has accepted an amendment submitted to Article 5. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the title above Article 6 of the amendment. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57466	We're in article 6 predicting that instead of the word "chance" the word "possibility." For what? Because, simply watching the law run, we see that there is one instinct that words that are founded in Serbian are thrown out and foreign words are inserted. The word "chance" is of French origin, and when translated into Serbian, it is a possibility. I don't see the need for that to stand. We cannot accept writing the law in this way, throwing out other words, because there is a completely adequate substitute in Serbian. On the other hand, when we talk about these equal chances, the principle of equal opportunities and equal opportunities, there is one example of how this is presented in this country. Maybe it's the same chance when a college or a university throws out a parole – it ends up "Megatrend", setting it on fire. These are equal chances, here are my colleagues correcting me, so it's said: finish "Megatrend" and burn. It means that we're all on fire, that the young are burning out of this country. On the other hand, an equal chance, although this time reminds me and associated me that perhaps the second part of "Tito and I" will soon be made, you remember that movie. So some students in some elementary schools in Belgrade had a chance or opportunity to write their writings to the president of the Republic. Other students across Serbia did not have the opportunity, and we are talking about equal opportunities and equal opportunities. Not to say that we don't use those ugly words that you said were ugly words, that the law is declarative, I won't mention it, but simply if we talk about equal opportunities. They can be enabled. I can't just stand on paper and be a dead letter. So the law must be applicable. This law is inadmissible. He's a need, but it has to be written differently. To be understood and to be applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57467	The word is made by Minister Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57468	The reason why we've defined ourselves that, by respecting what you've been saying about the issue of opportunity and opportunity and with synonym fines in the language, since this has been consequentially applied in the youth strategy at the head of equal odds, then we passed it into the law and that's why we didn't even accept it, because it's just something that's consequential application, and it's synonym.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57469	The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57470	Since I wanted to report to Article 6, but the system did not allow me, but it does not matter, the SNS today does not use this topic for its political marketing, and indeed, not at any time, except when we are forced to make such attacks as you allow, you as chairman, respond in the context of the law, and I have to do so because of those who are following today what individual parliamentary groups have done, wrote, submitted amendments, to say that despite the situation, we have asked that some members of the legislative proposal should be deleted, we have made other interventions to the amendments to this legislative proposal both for the public and for all of you, and for your sake, Madam Minister, the legal proposal could have five members. What is important is that it is understandable, that it is applicable, and what you say in your part where it calls for certain principles, on EU views, on a variety of regulations, on a strategy, on an action plan, that was enough in a particular context and only noted. That is why we have intervened that Article 6 and Article 7 are deleted, for they in themselves are nothing in particular new nor bring nor specify any explanation. For example, in Article 6 for the rights and obligations of certain entities, nor will it contribute better to the interpretation and application of the law. I respect the different attitudes of both government and government, but I need to state the situation and the fact that if this government really is like this to everyone, if it wants to meet and give equal chances for everyone, it should prescribe the situation for all public services, all public agencies and all state-owned enterprises, to have a public competition in these institutions. Let me remind you of the subject that your party president talked about these days, and then we would really care about this population where there were words in this law and it was more specific, and certain legal provisions, or members, we have the right to interpret differently from different political aspects. I say, once again, for the SNS and for all the members here in parliament, as I have noticed, it is not a question of the adoption of the youth law itself, and we have agreed on this, except for some, or when we fall into the problem of this law, but that certain proposals of this legal framework should be deleted or adapted. What the action plan and strategy are working on in itself cannot include you as a minister, or all the members of this government should work hard, not you saying that you advocate less tuition, free education, more employment. I have to remind you of the situation that we in Serbia have had the example and the inability to verify diplomas for two years, and to remind you that enrolment for individual universities is about 10 average salaries of employees, and they are very few, that children of these diplomas cannot verify, or that they have no place to do a pass-by. Try and influence your colleagues that what life is, and life makes standards, not the ideology of individual parties, and at a certain point, given the situations in life, we must apply, or bring standards. The standard cannot be prescribed as the other day of the elemental disaster that struck the Republic of Serbia, but the Government with adequate measures can lead to the situation that people now, I apologize, are not in a position to cut out the raspberries because no one will remember that the price of 60 to 80 dinars is very negative and unquality at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57471	The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57472	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would just say that you have rightly noticed that tuition prices are not the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, but within the jurisdiction that we are trying to react, so the Youth Fund, whose president I have since August 2008, has invested practically a billion and 200 million dinars in order to scholarship students and reward high school students. We have over 6,000 of them who are rewarded and thus try to help them and their families as much as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57473	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57474	Regulate more questions about these corrupt reportings. First of all, let's remind ourselves, what's called the Youth Act is still in the proposal and it's not the law, this is some text that doesn't have the characteristics of a legal act, or law. Today the language interpretation of the law was also debated here, etc. It's all right, but the point is that we're not actually discussing the law. What you marked with this article, the one etc., is not a legal norm. This is not binding on anyone. That's what we talked about in principle. There can't be something called the law without it obliging and that there aren't certain sanctions if something isn't carried out. Why do we need a law that says something and someone's gonna do something or don't do something and there's no legal consequences? This, ladies and gentlemen, is the legal framework for the ruling majority, for hiring young people who will benefit them in their future election campaign. That's what you called the youth law. We are reminded of all the questions asked by the Minister, and when we spoke in principle today, he tries to make an impression of the minister who wants to communicate with the MPs, which is certainly commendable, but has not answered a single question. Madam Minister, you're telling your story. First of all, we need to understand that, as far as the SRS and this paper are concerned, I can't possibly as a lawyer with years of experience call the bill, so we have a completely different concept approach. We assure you, we convince the assembly majority, we convince, first of all, the citizens of Serbia and explain to the citizens of Serbia that the ruling majority, that the regime abuses this possibility that, with 26 green buttons, it can vote something that does not really mean anything to the citizens of Serbia and does not mean anything to young people in Serbia, except that it will mean something to those groups gathered around the ruling coalition's parties. First of all, according to local self-governments around these youth offices, about what we talked about and in the principle debate, where four-five young people are hired there by representatives of a particular party, where they play some computer games there, make some projects, get some money, and then they're realising the project, and then there's talk about how a project was implemented in that municipality, so there's a youth involved, and you won't say – there were five people who are members of your party or some other party from the ruling coalition. This is a typical abuse. This here with young people has nothing to do with it, and here on young people, it only associates the jersey with the Minister, which is contrary to the uniform prescribed for all those entering the Assembly. A journalist dressed as a minister could not enter the Assembly. This is just by the way. (President: By the way, it is said and violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have no right to address directly, to qualify other persons on any basis. I'd like to ask you to speak on the subject of the agenda. You've been given the floor to discuss details, therefore, of the amendment, not in principle. So I'm warning you. Go on. I did not contact anyone directly. Article 9 says... (President: I now warn you twice. You are obliged to listen to the presidency's obligation to interrupt and remind the MP who violates the Rules of Procedure, to remind him not to do so. Please, Member of 106th and amendment submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Here you go. )......................................................................................................... young people should actively contribute to building and fostering social values for the development of their community. Then you say – especially through different forms of volunteer activities. We in the SRS think that especially through different forms of volunteering these activities cannot be contained in this Article 9 of this proposal. It was really best that all of these members were deleted and that, in this way, we suggested, that we convince you in this way what our relationship to this law is, as well as this text and Article 9 of this text. The amendment was submitted with the intention to remove from this proposal a provision, that is, part of the provision that is absolutely excessive, because it is obvious, and through this whole text is seen, the intention to impose volunteer activities on young people. The SRS thinks it's not good, it's not useful, it doesn't serve a better life for young people. You have, of course, rejected this amendment and said that you do not accept it because the proposed solution aims to promote and affirm volunteer activities, which by their nature are voluntary and which strengthen the responsibility and solidarity of young people, rather than impose them, excluding any other form of youth activity. First, why regulate the law of someone's voluntary activity? It's just amazing. How unnecessary, how excessive it is, how funny it is in this whole story, I guess it's clear to the people who are watching this transmission, and in particular it will be clear to young people who think that parliament today is discussing something that will make them better, and it has nothing to do with it. What do volunteer activities mean in the sense that they are promoted by this text and promoted by the ruling parties? Just what we've been saying for two days and what I said at the beginning of this argument, volunteer activities will actually mean that these groups of young people will volunteer to work in pre-election campaigns, to make beautiful posters, to carry pre-election materials from the ruling coalition, but that it will not be really volunteering because they will receive salaries from Serbian citizens, citizens of local self-government, through fictitious employment in youth offices. It's already been seen. You know, you can complain as much as you want against what we're talking about, you can give us warnings, try to forbid us to tell you, but as long as we're in the O.R., we'll talk about what the facts are. The fact is that in this way you used young people and in previous campaigns, the fact is that these young people were wearing yellow packages on your behalf, and I don't know what kind of package, and mobile phones, and glasses and everything you shared in the local campaigns with the citizens for a vote. It's all done by these young people who are employed in young people's offices. If you don't believe ask, go around, ask the people if it's true. I just don't know what's funny. I really don't know what's funny, this is sad, Madam Minister. Last time, the minister did not answer in principle, and I repeat this question - over 100,000 young people in Serbia today work through youth cooperatives. These youth cooperatives give about one third of the real profits to these young people, the owners of these youth cooperatives and employers share the rest of the money. These young people have no social, no pension, no health care, no insurance. Where's the law that's gonna regulate that? So if a hundred thousand young people do, then it means that there is a need for their work, but you didn't regulate that employers have to hire them rather than use them literally as the worst form of exploitation of labour, to use them by making arrangements with youth earning and young people have to earn some money, they don't really ask, they're not really in a situation where they're going to be in some years when they need to think about pensions and health insurance, etc., because, thank God, they're young and healthy, so they don't need to think about it right now. Why don't you take care of that? Why don't you take care of a hundred thousand, those hundred thousand young people, and not promote volunteers, promote voluntary work, and regulate something you dare to call the law. It's not a law, it's not legal norms, it can't be a legal norm something young people say should actively contribute to construction. The legal norm can't say that something needs to be done, that it can do something, that the legal norm is clear, precise, consistent. The legal norm says -- that's how, if someone doesn't do it, they'll answer that way and that way. You can't say what's needed in society, it's not regulated by the legal norm. It's not regulated by law, the law is something completely different, this could be some strategy, this could be, well, some text for some panel discussion that I don't even know there are organizations that are funded about it we're also going to be in one of the amendments, some various NGOs that are funded from who knows what funds from the white world, but of course you didn't miss in this text that you're also funding such ones. It could be that kind of debate. This can be discussed by young people at some of their informal gatherings, so little that they can discuss what their problems are. The government is expected to solve problems. The government is not the only minister who behaves like this, there are several ministers in this government who are characteristic of explaining to Serbian citizens what problems are in the state, what problems are in some area, and cannot learn that it is not a minister and is not the government to identify problems. The minister and the government are to solve problems. If they can't do it, they say it well – thank you, I can't do it, let someone else do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57475	It's been used 12 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57476	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First of all, I'd like to tell you that the government is preparing a law on cooperatives among which there will be a law on youth cooperatives, which is not within the jurisdiction of the Youth and Sports Ministry. On the occasion of the amendment, you suggested that it be deleted: "voluntary activities". I have to tell you that this year, first of all, we want to cultivate the values of volunteering. This year is European volunteerism, an international year of volunteers, and this year, since you've associated with the UN delegation club, this year is marked ten years since the international year, the world's year of volunteers. But what is important, volunteer work here refers to what young people and young people in Serbia are able to do, as I said voluntarily, and I think it should be recognized in law. The illustration works, I'll tell you an example from a village called Donja Trnava, located next to Donja Topionica, which is near Nis. There, a volunteer group of youngsters, indeed, cleaned up the former wild dump and turned it into a park and then also transformed its surroundings, so to speak, in a place to gather young people, by building small pavilions so that they could spend their spare time there. Also, what I find a positive example from Shida is that a group of young high school students have taken one action to collect school supplies for their poor founding fathers, fellow citizens of Shida. This was all done voluntarily and I believe that this kind of relationship with society, the relationship of solidarity should certainly be nurtured and I am fully convinced that it must stand in this law without the need to sanction itself. I don't think young people should be constantly sanctioned, but affirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57477	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radet, a time available for 29 minutes, then a National MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57478	I don't have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57479	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57480	Interesting, but good. I'll use the MP's time. The minister's interesting argument, in fact, complemented the argument given by the SRS when he suggested that this section of Article 9 should be deleted. What were the young ones doing in Lower Trnava, what were the young ones doing in Shida, very commendable, and imagine doing it without this law. How is that possible? How could they have arranged to clean their own park without this law? Well, that's what we're talking about, Mrs. Samardzic-Markovic. On the other hand, the question is, what's the business of the state, what's the business of local self-government, I guess local self-government needs to clean up that park? Oh, no, to gather citizens to do that. You're back in business time. Because at every step, you show that as a state, as a state body, you're for nothing. You're not capable of anything. There's nothing smart and nothing useful you can do, and that's the problem of both this country and this people. And you're telling us about the anniversary, I don't know which one. Here I remind Serbia's citizens that this year will be the 11th anniversary of Serbia's sunflower since the DOS took Serbia into its own hands and destroyed everything that could have been destroyed. You've ruined everything. In both moral and material, and educational, and educational and in whatever sense you want. And that's what's wrong with this country. You can't convince us that this is what you wrote us, because this isn't the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57481	Two minutes used by the MP's group. The word has the youth and sports minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57482	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. As for the very concrete Lower Topionica, you should really look at who the president of which party is the president of the local self-government unit, but I won't comment on it, precisely because all you said was that it was an obligation of local self-government to clean up wild dumps. What's an opportunity to say, it's true that they did, and those from Shid and many others, last year there were 30 such actions, among other things, in the village of High at Arilla. That's what I was saying in principle, so I'm not going to do right now, just so they're not individual examples, but to make it a systemic concern, a systemic value, which is why we're putting it into law, and otherwise all of those 30 actions are supported by the Youth and Sports Ministry financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57483	The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz, and the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57484	Of course I'm against erasing this member. I will remind again, for the sake of the public, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia recently passed the Voluntary Law and, of course, that volunteer work existed without that law, it is true that youth associations exist without this law, but this is about a systematic comprehensive organisation and assistance by the state of institutional, financial and local self-government. I think that's the greatest value of this law. If anyone doesn't recognize her from the opposition, we recognize those values and how we recognize her. Of course, with the adoption of an action plan, with the adoption of a youth strategy, etc. I don't think it's true that every norm should have its own sanctions. You can't get young people to team up, so if young people don't team up or volunteer that there should be a sanction. The law is for certain social relations and certain social conditions to be defined under legal norms, and every legal norm, there must be no sanctions, there are general legal norms, it becomes transitional and final provisions without sanctions. Don't, I know you're this tough in politics and everything you see sanctions, etc., and don't cry for those times of 11 years ago, when they were really sanctions and general failure and the sunroof of institutions and policies and societies and states. You know what the National Assembly was like back then, what was the position of young people, etc. I'm not saying that in the last 11 years, there have been no failures, but those two policies, these are space remote policies and really compare them, they're a waste of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57485	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is a folk letter from Vjerica Radeta, and the MP Milan Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57486	Do I happen to have the right to a replica right now, after my colleague,chikiriz? Not by any chance, far away. [[President: You do not have the right to reply.]] Okay. Well...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57487	Please read the Rules of Procedure on what they are required to attend all participants in the National Assembly session. If you insist... People's MP, Momir Markovic, please do not throw away, this is the first warning and next time it will be a warning. If you feel that you can promote that verbal violence amuses you, that you can promote your attitude to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure gives you the right to what other 249 MPs do not have the right, then I am obliged to remind you once and how I have warned you to remember the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which oblige you to be competent, to be polite, to be treated with other participants of the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I now warn you once again that any other intentional violation of your intention to promote verbal violence will be sanctioned in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, you have time at the disposal of the parliamentary groups and go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57488	Mrs Samardzic-Markovic tried to draw attention that someone from the SRS was obliged to do something in Donja Trnava, or Donja Topalnica. Yes, it belongs to the municipality of the Red Cross in Nis and the president, i.e. the city municipality, and the president of the town's municipality is Serbian Radical Dr Lelica Kostic, but this job is, imagine, in the jurisdiction of the communal community. It's a city company on the Nish city level. Therefore, the minister was wrong when she tried to draw attention to it. But again, we're saying that if someone's going to organize themselves and do something themselves, they don't need any law to do it. It's best if you pass the law and if anyone can make a mob, help someone dig potatoes, build a house, etc. This looks like it. As for a colleague who mentioned some time of sanctions, etc., just a reminder that those sanctions were imposed by friends...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57489	People's MPs, about the amendment. You've been given your word to speak of a search in the details of the amendment. You have been warned twice, and no matter how much I don't think any kind of punishment will affect your understanding that the rules apply equally to everyone, I ask you one last time to use the time of the parliamentary group and talk about the amendment. If you want, you used a minute. Sign up and you can continue to use your time as a parliamentary group to search for details, about an amendment that is under review, and was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Do you want to continue? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Vučković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57490	Thank you, Chairman. I'm against...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57491	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, throws out the bench, which is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I don't know if it's a strategy of your entire SRS parliamentary group or just your own to demonstrate your will for incidents and to demonstrate, to consider free and democratic promotion of violence against the procedure. However, this is the last time I warn you, and I ask you to stop acting strictly forbidden by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go ahead, go ahead. National MP Milan Vukkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57492	Thank you. The amendment of MP Milovan Radovanovic, which seeks to erase volunteer activities within the principle of responsibility and solidarity of young people in Article 9, is something that I am absolutely against. The arguments have already been made by many, but it is not mentioned once again that we have already passed the Voluntary Law, that this law has been passed in this Assembly, that the principles of volunteering are such that they act inexplicably on the spirit of young people, that they are taught by responsibilities, values, solidarity, advocacy for others and that, if we are already talking about the work of the law in principle, volunteering is not an excess. On the contrary, it is one of the basic instruments of positive education and the acquisition of the right values of youth. It was said today in the debate that it was actually a cover for political engagement of young people in campaigns. I'll tell you what the Volunteering Act says clearly, it's not volunteering. Article 3 says – volunteering within the meaning of this law is not considered, there are several indents, indent 7 says, among other things, not to be considered to volunteer for the performance of jobs and activities in political parties, trade unions and other associations related to the achievement of the objectives and tasks of those organisations, or associations by their members in accordance with the Statute. So volunteering isn't about sticking to posters or campaigns made by young people. Young people engage all political parties, let alone, some less, depending on how much they can attract them, and even your campaigns have been attended by young people, and I suppose they will participate if you haven't lost them as a member, unless they've all moved on to this other side. All parties have the right to engage in campaigns, and that's not volunteering, it's not a hoax. In a member of this law volunteering is quite another and it is clearly prescribed by the Voluntary Law. That's why I'm asking you not to replace the thesis again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57493	It was used for three minutes by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57494	I'll be brief, from the time of the authorised representative. The law expunges by overlining the volunteer work, which is also abused in political campaigns. What I can say is that the SRS has never abused young people, unlike some other parties. He also said nicely that the Volunteering Act was passed. I would now link it to what Ms. Minister told Mrs. Dusanka Plecevic at the beginning of the debate, if it were not necessary to install in this young people's law provisions concerning neither protection nor the safety of young people, also Ms. Minister Paji Momčalov said that nothing regarding the specific sale of alcohol was necessary in this law, because there is a Consumer Protection Act, but it was necessary to introduce in this law many provisions concerning associations, i.e. to NGOs, and there is a Law on Associations, which was adopted in 2009, and as we have now had the opportunity to hear from colleagues Vukkovic, there is a Law on Volunteering, and yet it was necessary, in your assessment, to introduce in this law the provisions concerning volunteering. Such an interest of young people is really not something the SRS recognises as an interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57495	The minutes and 30 seconds were used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57496	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I didn't say it wasn't necessary, I just said that other laws sanction behavior that wasn't in line, which certainly is a negative phenomenon, when it comes to young people and also, in the exposé, I said that we are aware that there is a Law on Association of Citizens, but to specify those elements concerning youth policy. That's what I said in the exposé, and I did it again today. So we're precise. As for specific volunteer activities, I am speaking once again – this is the principle of responsibility and solidarity and it is mentioned here affirmably, not in terms of sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57497	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radet, and Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57498	The claim of the SRS is that the volunteer activities of young people are being abused in election campaigns is certainly something that is very verifiable and that has been happening and we are confident that they will be happening in the future and, among other things, this paper, called the law, is also being passed. In commenting on this amendment, it was also about who was used for election campaigns, of course, that full-time people, that they were doing it voluntarily, but not in the way parties of the ruling coalition do it. Here, an illustrative example, for example in the municipality of Lajkovac, 83 people under 25 joined the SRS in the last two months, and they will certainly be SRS activists in the next campaign and will surely stick posters, carry propaganda material, but they will not be paid by Serbian citizens through the Youth Office, and will not be abused through the tobacco volunteer work that promotes this paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57499	The minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57500	We've come to some conclusions and Mrs. Minister tells us that this is just a written principle. I say that the over-emphasis of volunteerism is indeed present in this bill, and in Article 20 paragraph 6 relating to funding programmes and projects of public interest, so this defines the provision of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is about projects of public interest in the youth sector where the social empowerment of young people is carried out, especially through the promotion of volunteerism and youth work, as well as building the capacity of youth associations. What I said, the law overemphasises this need for alleged volunteering and building the capacity of the association. NGOs are really over-emphasised in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57501	One minute was used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Youth and Sports Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 9. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Youth and Sports Committee. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57502	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, Madam Minister. I don't know why the board intervened, and I see it's accepted, because we're opposed to this, not because it's basically something that's horny in the expression itself, but that doesn't mean anything, and I'll explain why. My colleagues, Mrs Radeta and Mrs Dimitrijevic explained the aspect of volunteering. This is about the same Article 9 and the Committee has accepted, with this correction, that a member be arranged in this way, where intergenerational solidarity is spoken of. I'll talk about the aspect of solidarity, because the amendment applies to that. The very solidarity and the very discrimination that is being repeated, i.e. starting with Article 5 of the principle of equality and prohibition of discrimination, should simply not have a foothold in this law. For what? Because the prohibition of discrimination is regulated by Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and no one, a younger man, or an elderly person, therefore at any age, has the right, as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, to treat anyone discriminatoryly on the basis of race, gender, nationality, political or other beliefs, property, culture, language, age, etc. It was completely unnecessary to regulate this law. You have now passed one constitutional norm into the law, but in real life it will mean nothing and you know it very well, and as a mother and as a minister, because as I am told in the Shumadia – as the cradle swings you, so you will behave your whole life. If a child is not raised like that since birth, and it will later be a young person, to show solidarity with those who are not able to perform their social and other functions because of disability, because of age and age differences, simply, one law cannot commit anyone to it. Then how do we get to respect certain social values? Now we come to the question, when this term of solidarity is already being apostrophe in this Article 9. Legally, what are social values in Serbia today? For me, perhaps, Mrs. Komic, or you, or anyone in the O.R., Mr. Novakovic, social values are not the same. You know, that's a very broad term. Patriotism, the country's loyalty, its nation, the promotion of Serbia's most bright freedom traditions, are for me and the SRS, for every Serbian radical of fundamental social values. If we don't cultivate what our people are, which is our statehood, which is our history, which has passed on to us previous generations, and that's what every radical present here does in his family, with his children. Mr. Jojic thus raised his sons, and his grandchildren, and everyone does so, then we have nothing to talk about, if it's a media promotion or some action that destroys the basic cell of society, which is a family, aimed at not raising children. Tell me, please, does your ministry do this and is the Serbian Government active in promoting such values? It's not. Everything that is international, everything that comes from the EU, everything that is European standards, under the circumstances, even though you can't even explain it to people -- what it is essentially, and it's nothing, is just a humiliation of the state, acceptance of conditions that we shouldn't accept because our country is being destroyed, our economy and disintegrated, it's growing misery and poverty, and you say that they are social values and that these are categories that should respect young people in Serbia. We disagree and Mr Krasic says this every day, how many people are against the EU, what is the percentage today, Mr Krasic? Over 80%. The NATO Pact is 93-94%. Make sure it's a reflection of some social value. In this entire survey, there are a large number of young people. If you ask me personally every single Serbian radical here, what I am is proud of today, when it comes to the solidarity of young people in Serbia, is what this member is talking about, intergenerational solidarity, I am proud of that rally held outside the House of the People's Assembly, on May 26th, this year, when tens of thousands of young people came to express their patriotic solidarity with the famous Serbian General Ratko Mladic, whom you delivered to The Hague tribunal. Mrs. Radeta spoke of future SRS volunteers who would not pay the office, who joined the SRS in Lykovec, 83 of them in one day, as a positive case of how these young people think. They don't just do it because of the SRS, because by fostering values and the SRS programme, they cultivate the best traditions of our people. Then why not take the opportunity, here you are, at the head of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, to help promote those young people who are not politically active and who are our celebrated athletes, who are and how they show their solidarity in action? We don't just have to go to those of us who love and follow, not you, not me, not other colleagues at the Serbian Open to encourage Novak Djokovic or to do so by some ministers in special vaults somewhere abroad. Let's say here - no, it's not just a racket and his talent and great work in the matter of his success on world terrain, but solidarity in action. A young man, such as the tennis player Djokovic, has, you know very well, because of yourself, his beliefs, education and belongings to the Serbian Orthodox Church helped the church at KIM. The same was true in a campaign, but almost undetected, our swimmer Cavic participated. He, promoting the protection of those who are in foster families, made his immeasurable contribution, but the media did not want to talk or write about it. We, as a party, will do everything to promote, through the activity of these young people of ours, and these are future talents in all areas, future intellectuals, all social values, but that can't be prescribed by any law. Here, not to be entirely biased, since Mr. Krasic runs our Committee in Rakovica, but the brightest one of the examples, besides this, is the youth of SRS Rakovica. I'm talking about a Belgrade municipality because you live here. What are real social values, these people from day to day, their actions, as one of the most active sections, promote. That's what our younger staff in Kragujevac, Nis and other cities do, but that's the way for these young people to focus. Like this, this doesn't mean anything here, because I say again, everything is carried out by the family, even when it comes to ending it, and Novak Djokovic, if it wasn't so raised, as a Serb originating with KIM, that it wasn't raised by the family, the question is whether he would have such a relationship with what is social value, which is worth to both Serbia and the Serbian Orthodox Church. As far as this is concerned, I'm going to end it, the big difference has been made, Madam Minister, with this definition of what they are, you're confusing us for that, the category of young people. In your law, it's up to 29 years, in the National Strategy it's up to 30, and in Mr. Rasim Ljajic's law, which we adopted two months ago, it's up to 26 years ago. Well, please, agree in the Serbian government to define how young a man is, and otherwise young with spirit and positive and in concern for his country and people and above all with a strong spirit that carries on to youth, so obviously our President, Vojislav Seselj, who is today a role model for young people in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57503	Nine minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word has Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57504	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd just like to say that both in the Strategy and in the Youth Act up to 30 years, youth categories count. The reason why we have accepted intergenerational solidarity, as something that has been proposed by the Committee for this amendment, is certainly not that they would necessarily accept something that is an international innovation. I've just shown that the UN is creating volunteer work, since your United Nations Parliament Club has been apostrophe. As far as the EU is concerned, it is the government's definition, but as far as intergenerational solidarity is concerned, I don't think at all that it was exclusively European value or something modern imported from the side. I think it's a deep traditional Serbian value, which has been shown for centuries, and I think it belongs to her in the Youth Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57505	The People's MP Milan Vučković has the word, and the People's Messenger Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57506	May I? I volunteered as chairman of the Youth and Sports Committee, who submitted this amendment. We are still, therefore, in principle, a member of the 9. We have suggested that in front of the word "solidarity" we add a simple word that is "intergenerational", because, when we already express values through these principles, we should put one accent on something that is very important in every society, even in ours, which is solidarity between generations. We were dividing ourselves in the '90s a little artificially, a little bit in other ways, like those young people who supported the opposition and those older ones who supported the government, to the extent that we had even had a situation to accuse even in the Assembly of older generations of wars, how they ruined our youth, etc. That's not good. I am directly against it, and I am glad that some MPs in this congregation have recognized it, some have not. However, here we have the amendment of Mrs. Donka Banovic, Milice Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic, who, in the same article, only in second place, are calling for solidarity with older people. It's also acceptable. However, I think that the datermin "intergenerational solidarity" includes one broader spectrum, because other than older people, they can be middle-aged people, they can be children, and I think that you, too, wanted with this amendment exactly what the Committee, bearing this amendment, was intended to do. That's why I think the term "intergenerational solidarity" is not something that should divide us in the Assembly today, nor cause excessive debate. I just think we should vote that out and accept this amendment. There's nothing controversial about it, I don't see what's controversial, nor did I hear in the discussion that there's something controversial about that term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57507	Two minutes has been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57508	This debate of ours has obviously attracted the public's attention. We, here, get into a parliamentary group and phone calls and text messages. One gentleman says it is still very profitable to be a volunteer, so he cited the example of Nikola Stankov, the current director, or something like that, flying control, which is otherwise known for being a husband... . (President: National MPs, the amendment concerning volunteers has passed. We are now talking about an amendment adopted, because the topic is that MPs are interested in talking about intergenerational solidarity. No one has two minutes to explain the amendments, but everyone is obliged to stick to the agenda theme. So, intergenerational solidarity. () Yes, intergenerational solidarity. Mr. Stankov, when he was young, was a volunteer at JAT, and now he's generationally not young, now he's a flight control director and works for a 5,000-euro salary. Isn't that tied up?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57509	People's MPs, someone can't be solid with themselves. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) I ask MP Zoran Krasic not to throw it away. We will not mock any provision that prescribes our common behavior. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the People of Gordan Rajkov. The Government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP Gordana Rajkov wants a word. You have no right for two minutes, but you have time for a parliamentary group. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the People of Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution we have a legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's MP Gordana Rajkov wants a word? You have no right for two minutes, but you have time for a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57510	Thank you. Yes, of course I am pleased that the amendment has been accepted and I know that it is not usual for the Rules of Procedure to report again after the amendment that the Government has accepted. I think it is important that I express what I wanted with the amendment, as has already been said, Article 9 should affirm the principle that young people should contribute to fostering social values and developing the social community. In this regard, the amendment that I have submitted proposed that the original term in the formulation of the amendments, in order for young people to care for certain disciplined groups, be replaced by a sentence – that young people should work more actively to create conditions for equal and full participation of young people with disabilities, national minorities and other discriminated groups in all aspects of the social life of young people. I think this is very important because it affirms the principle of opening up opportunities and social inclusion of young people who come from different groups that are discriminated against and who do not have the opportunity to actively participate in the activities of their peers and therefore I think this was good to make it clear and simply provide the possibility of participation, instead of accepting a passive entity, or passive object of some concern, however well-intentioned it is. That is why, of course, I am pleased that the Ministry, which has otherwise worked in earlier activities to open the possibility of including these groups, but also others, has recognised the importance of this and accepted the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57511	Two minutes and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57512	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 9 which otherwise reads - young people should actively contribute to the construction and care of social values, the development of their community, especially through different forms of volunteer activities and express solidarity and special care towards people with disabilities. We have also added here "to older persons, members of national minorities and all other persons and social groups who may be at risk of discrimination, or discriminatory treatment". So we could, and we understood that you might have put that group of senior citizens into this, other faces and social groups, that you simply led them, but we simply wanted to single out a group of older people, because they are also part of this society, and I am very symptomatic that very often respects the very elderly people that they should not be above all in this law or mentioned, I don't think that's the case. On the other hand, they are responsible because they are alone, because they are asked to increase their pensions, so that they have two meals a day, instead of meeting only one, to tear down the budget, thus and the state, leave nothing to the young, that they are working until they are exhausted, and that they will never get a chance to work, which, of course, points to a subconscious and fine, subtle, through the media a large group of public and a large group of dissatisfied citizens, that there are these old people who are guilty because they live badly in this country, and because they are only trying to achieve their rights. When the government is poor and it is incompetent, this one is definitely just as bad and incompetent, when there are no work results, then that power points to one group of its citizens against another group of citizens, accusing that one of them is guilty of not having its own rights. It's just very well affected, even in this law, as well as in the laws that passed here, because Madam Minister speaking to me about the amendment to Article 3 said that I explain to my young people why there's no special law, why I advocate what she thinks I'm up for, that the law shouldn't exist. There is no Madam Minister of my youth, nor my old people in this country, nor your young men, nor your old ones in this country, as long as we speak such a language, it will be terrible for young and old in this country. As far as I understand things, we all here speak from one position to allow both young and old the same rights and what the state must give them. These are the high European values my party advocates. I'm looking at a young colleague who said that we as the Democratic Party of Serbia do not advocate European values, that's what the minister said, I looked at the stenogram, she said exactly, but it's not true, but we different seems to understand what high European values are, I would say universal human values, well someone likes to say that Europe is the only thing he cares about, for example, a high European value, a universal value that girls from 15 to 19 years of age really have health protection. In principle, I was talking about how many of our young people between 15 and 19 years of age, these are girls, they're not girls, three thousand each year have unwanted pregnancy and intentional termination of pregnancy. I'm sorry, it's a high standard of not happening, and I hear a colleague after that it's a high standard for something that wasn't legal to become legal now. We are simply different in this, and I respect it for some high standards and that someone has one policy and one line in that policy, that his minister has a different opinion than his high-ranking official so that they can argue in public, but that's allowed. Furthermore, what's also of high value to me, and I think this part of the law is the story of, that we, by this law, are correcting the position of young people and taking care of them. So what about countries that don't have the law? We want to say that they don't take care of their young and that they don't care that their position there is threatened because they don't have the law there. That's not it, we don't replace the thesis, let's fix the law if it's even possible to fix it. As a result, let's say, it doesn't really matter to me whether the amendment of Mr. Vukkovic and the Committee on Sports and Youth, which actually says the same thing as the DSS, which has submitted the amendment a little earlier, is accepted. It is important that the amendment is accepted, even in such a form, and it is important what is the essence, what it will bring forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57513	Three minutes and 15 seconds of the Parliament's time spent. The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57514	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I would just say that with this amendment explained by Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic, that the elderly should be respected as part of this article. We felt that it was celery and we were ready to accept the amendment, but the one that speaks of amongst generational solidarity has an even wider dimension, so we felt that it complemented each other and with respect to your intentions this broader term we accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57515	Does anyone else want a word? If not on Article 9, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57516	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of principle. You, Mr. Minister, have predicted that in article 10 of the National Youth Strategy, the government brings on a proposal from the ministry. We believe that the National Strategy for Youth first brings the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. I'll try to explain why. The National Youth Strategy is essential for the adoption of this law and for the implementation of this law. It contains a series of important issues, important for young people who are not governed by this law. Also, if we take into account the importance of youth policy for the future of this country and the fact that a national strategy is being adopted for a period of six years, then we think it is really necessary for the National Youth Strategy to bring the Serbian Assembly on a proposal from the government. If that strategy, national, brings only the Government, it is not a national strategy. They bring it, therefore, only the ruling parties. I think it is necessary to allow all parliamentary parties in the Serbian Parliament to at least consider and propose a national strategy for young people, on which a youth law will be passed later, that is, how you have formulated it - the youth law. So the national strategy is something else. It is brought by the National Assembly, and this strategy is brought by the Government. It can only be called a blast strategy. That's actually what this is about. The strategy for young people has been misdefined, to be called the government's strategy, because it was not brought by the National Assembly but by the Serbian Government. This is not just about this strategy, Your Honor, Madam Minister. It also refers to the National Strategy for Sports and to all other social areas of vital importance for Serbian citizens. Any national strategy that is the basis for law-making should be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57517	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Snow White Samardzic-Markovic has a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57518	Madam Chairman, in principle, I believe that your argument is in place and that I can tell you, as a witness, that there have been a lot of discussions in the public debate on whether a strategy should be adopted by the Government or whether Parliament should adopt it. We know that in many countries this is what parliament does, in many it is the government. I'm just going to remind you of the Government Act, which predicts, and that's what we actually managed when we chose to be a government. Therefore, the Government Act of Article 45 provides that the Government's strategies are to be determined. I am using the opportunity once again to tell you that we respect this House as much as possible and that we are already giving reports on implementation of the Youth Strategy to the National Assembly through the Youth and Sports Committee. I will once again say that this committee is extremely active, that we have real dialogue and excellent co-operation. So also in this dialogue and reporting within the framework of the Youth Strategy as a practice there is, and we had to not accept your amendment, under the government law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57519	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57520	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, not to be that I'm the one who messed up about two words, it's about "a chance" and "a possibility". You told me in that last amendment, when I first mentioned it, that it was a synonym for the word "possibility" of the word "a chance". If we think of that logic, the synonym for word window is a penger, but we don't apply it anywhere in the law. I was talking about something else completely. Now that we are talking about the second chapter on Article 10, I can and must illustrate when it comes to equal opportunities or opportunities for young people, what it looks like in the country of Serbia, and how this life today in Serbia brings, what equal opportunities for young people. You see, equal opportunities don't apply when, say, the National Bank increases credit participation to 30% for apartments. Well, it increases participation to 30% to buy cars, and that apartment and that car need young people to live normally. Maybe they're equal chances for young people, and if that's what the government thinks, maybe those 400,000 people who are out of work, these people have their own young ones, they have their own children. Maybe that's a lot of chances and opportunities. It seems to me that your party, who has recently been called G17 plus, has been thinking about equal chances since 2008, and then probably suggested 1,000 euros of free action, which young obemers have accepted, considering it as their development chance, to be about one serious money, so that they could somehow move more normal and stable into life. It simply did not occur, as youth employment did not occur. There was neither the help of young people nor the security of housing nor other things. As you speak in article 10 about improving young people’s health, I will now give you a practical example of how there is confusion in the law. The strategy for young people, young people are defined for up to 30 years, and you have one other law, the Social Protection Act, which defines young people up to 26 years. Young people have their own needs for health problems. They have a need to solve health problems. That young man shows up with a health book, and he's, like, 28 years old. They refer to your Youth Strategy for up to 30 years, and then someone tells him, but you know the Social Security Act doesn't define young people for up to 30 years, it defines them up to 26 years. There's a problem. At first, I told you there must be communication between the ministries, there must be harmonisation of the law. It's the only way this law is applicable. It seems to me, given everything that was said in the afternoon discussion, that this law that has not yet seen the light of day is actually a stillborn law that is absolutely inapplicable, and I have explained several examples of what makes life and what makes it difficult not to apply in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57521	The word has Snezana Samardzic – Markovic, please welcome the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57522	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I said that the chances, i.e. the term "a chance" when we last discussed your amendments and amendments, were the term "a chance" was adopted within the framework of the National Youth Strategy and that it was a consequent application of that term and legal terminology. I remind you that this strategy was adopted on 9 May 2008, when your president was also Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57523	The People's Messenger, Paja Momcilov, has the word, and the People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, now let's start with this, we're discussing Article 10, and I'm going to speak very specifically about it. Here it is said that the explanation given is not right – the amendment is not accepted, because the amendment is legally-technically unclear and unsuitable for acceptance. He's very clear, at least most of the people who read this. I think I can determine that. On the other hand, the Minister says it is in agreement with the Strategy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You, for example, said in article 5, all young people are equal, which is impossible. You have a good strategy – equal. That's the only term you have in the "equal" strategy. Don't, when you need it, you do strategy, but I want to say something else about all this. First, as you wrote, the strategy is a document brought by the government on a proposal from the ministry. It was a matter of controversy whether it was brought by the government. It's mostly government and it's bringing and it's supposed to. What do we need, like Parliament? We have a policy to determine. You say the strategy works. The strategy does not regulate, let me tell you, the laws and sublegal acts and other regulations. So as not to be a story of hollowness, to remind you of the definitions, to read you what a strategy is, and what a policy is. If we didn't have a dilemma, I read the law to you, so there's no need. "Politics is a long-term plan that sets out general guidelines for decision-making," means making decisions. This is what politics is, and this Parliament would have been worth it if it could have been on the agenda to determine. We don't, my God. Maybe there's something like that somewhere. Strategy – defining general organisational objectives, measures and resources for their application. From that comes the action plan, of course, which you have brought, which I know well, I have studied and I know both his weaknesses and his virtues. Therefore, it is not regulated by strategy. Let's end this strategy of yours. This strategy of yours, you say you are for Europe, for some values, is absolutely contrary to the order of priorities listed here in your strategy, with the strategy given by the UN and by Europe. I don't want to read ten areas. What you put first is 10th place everywhere. It is amazing that you say in the strategy – you have found nowhere to find a place that your bologna categories are especially something to work on to ensure their better condition. You have displaced young people, you have Roma young people, you have people with disabilities, you have poor people, you have a big social difference between young people in the city and the village. I'm not going to read numbers and percentages. You haven't touched that in one of these general attitudes. If you wanted to apply your views to us in principle, then give them a chance to convince them in line with real life and what the international community is, and Serbian radicals, of course, do not want to go to the EU under anything else. If we look at unemployment in the EU and look at today's countries that are being dragged, which are the locomotives of the development of humanity's economics, when you look at only employment, everything will be clear to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57525	Three minutes and 55 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a youth and sports minister, Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57526	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I just wanted to make it clear. The explanation says that we have rejected the amendment because it is legally illogical and unsuitable to accept it, you have noticed it yourself, and that is, unfortunately, in a certain sense, true, because the amendment says that after the word "a chance" changes and puts "a possibility", so that this amendment would read this way – young people in social life, ensuring that young people's rights are achieved on an equal footing, the possibility – and then the rest goes. Legally, it's unclear and that's why we refused, but there are reasons I've already explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57527	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57528	I'm afraid, Madam Minister, that you didn't understand me. I was talking about one problem, and I think about one finding, we agree. Young people need social protection, as they need health care. It's undeniable. I'm talking about the situation where a young man who is 28, when he shows up with a need for social protection and a need for health care, which law is applied? Law and strategies or the Social Protection Act that defines young people of 26 years? That's what I'm talking about, that's the problem. I'm talking about the non-compliance of the law. What law will be applied to this young man? This Mr. Ljajic or your strategy and the law? You see, when there's no communication, there's no consistency. When the government does what it thinks, there's a problem like this. The needs for social protection exist because unemployment is because there are empty promises, because hundreds of thousands of young people have no job and no chance of getting a job. They're not the same odds. It's a disaster in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57529	One minute and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57530	Thank you. I mean, I mean, what you were saying, I listened very carefully, but what concerns certain rights doesn't necessarily be regulated by this law. So different categories of young people exist, that's what your letter said, it is real, but for example, we young people aged 15-30 consider young people, which doesn't mean that those aged 15-18 have the right to vote. Different laws give different rights to individuals, here people up to 26 years old, so we can't treat different generations the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57531	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57532	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency and the Honorable Madam Minister, the point of my presentation was a Bible proverb – a thorn in the eye of the other, and you do not see the balvan in your own. That was the point. Why was I encouraged by this? In Article 9, you said clearly – young people should actively contribute – and then talk about solidarity – special care for people with disabilities, members of national minorities, etc. Not young, the whole company. (President: National MP, amendment to Article 10 is under review. This is an explanation and explanation. (President: Amendment to Article 10, not Article 9.) That's exactly what I was saying. Are you following me? I also challenged the formal correctness of the strategy definition in the way it was given, and in addition, since I disputed that there is something missing in this article 10th, which is disabled, which are persons with special needs, that I am not now saying all that I said, and I said that what was meant to be in Article 10 is, in one bad way, given in Article 9. That's all I gave. If something's wrong, it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57533	One minute and 27 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. The Government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57534	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 11 paragraph 1 reads - the strategy is adopted for a period of six years. We believe this period should be extended to ten years. What makes us think it should be extended? Since we believe that the strategy is a very important document being adopted by a very broad public debate that probably leads to some social consensus being reached, because this is about some very important topics, such as the position of young people, the repair of young people, it further lists objectives, measures, resources, mechanisms. These goals are short-term if you put them on a period of two, three, four years. I understand your six-year-old formulation, simply to outlive a single government, but I do believe that we still want to create a democratic state that needs to implement one policy according to a particular age category, in this case of young people, so we feel that we really need to introduce a period of 10 years here, that strategies are made for a period of 10 years. Especially since some of the first steps have been made, there's no reason for us to get past things now. I think we should make longer-term projects and everything. That's the idea we've submitted this amendment to. Just one more thing to say, about the reports that you file, file the rest of the ministry, it's not just that you appreciate us, thanks for saying, there's a lot of people who don't, but it's just our business obligation to adopt the ministry's report. So, ministers, the ministries are obliged to file a report on the ministry's work on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57535	The word has a youth and sports minister, Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57536	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First of all, I would say, what Mrs. Parliament said is quite true. It is an obligation and we are pleased to meet this obligation, especially because we believe that both the youth area and the field of sport are not only the area of one ministry or government, but of the whole society, and therefore we share both the information and suggestions that we receive from Parliament, with this distinguished house. In the context of the debate on youth law and the full process of consultation, we had this kind of dilemma whether to be made for six or ten years and had prevailed on the idea of being six years old, because it seemed to be operational and the government had just set up a position in one term, so it could prepare a new strategy. However, since there is deep conviction in the ministry itself that it would be good for such documents to be brought in the long term and that it is a kind of policy which is true and long-term planning, we accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57537	Thank you. Now I'm setting a break and we're finishing this before noon. We will continue at 15.00 hours with a discussion of the specifics, with an amendment to article 11, which was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon, by discussing the particulars of the search. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57539	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I don't think there is a need for an explanation, Madam Minister, for this, because my esteemed colleague, Pelevic, has already stated the principle of SNS, and regarding Article 10, and this chapter dealing with the national youth strategy, and we wanted to see what Mr Pelevic said about Article 10 of the change in Article 11. You've explained it, and I don't particularly want to take up time for a situation that's already explained in Article 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57540	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) New Title and New Article 13. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of the 13th, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Title above Article 13 and Article 13. The National MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic put together the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57541	Thank you. Just to get back to the part of today's afternoon debate. We have come to the proposed amendments, as probably Mrs. Minister has seen, there is no reason why, because of the diversity of attitudes, we have come to such a significant issue, agreed on certain things, but because of others who have occasionally taken the floor, I must say that we considered some of the views of this legislative provision, or the SNS Group, to be able to be reasoned, or to be an integral part of some other documents, rather than the Youth Act. Simply, the Youth Act could have had fewer points. When we asked for amendments to delete certain provisions, it could simply fit into the statutes of various associations of citizens. Simply, for example, if the law encourages and supports awareness-building, we believe that this should not be a legal principle, namely that certain activities, which, in this case young people's associations, involve, and that, since this is not legal in principle, should not be placed in the proposal for this legislative act. For this reason, we believe that the lower instance, so the youth-involved associations, could have included this part of the legal proposal that we asked for the amendment to be deleted. In the course of the law, from the point of 10th, which begins to deal with the strategy and youth associations, we have reacted, and in this case, to Article 13, where we have asked for attitudes 1, 2nd and 5th to be deleted, and that the words "targets and areas of achievement of objectives aimed at young people with this law" are replaced by the words "whose activity is to improve the position of youth according to this law". I've been saying all of this for the reason that, say, this text could have been a youth day or a youth day, and then we'd be wondering who was going to wear the staff. For this reason, we believe that lower organisations, or different associations, can regulate their programme objectives, not even constitutionally, but the programme objectives of this provision that you have introduced into the law. After all, the law is required. It is our opinion that he could to a lesser extent, because parts of his members he deals with lower instances and there are differences regarding this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57542	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has submitted this amendment to Article 13 because Article 1 is written in such a way as to create an obligation to establish associations. We have proposed an amendment to a different definition, so that associations can be established, but that it is not something that is mandatory. We didn't touch the freedom of association either, as you stated in your explanation for refusing the amendment that you didn't either enter the freedom of association. Here it was done that the text of the law was written so that the establishment of an association could be understood as mandatory to carry out youth activities. When we say the association, by definition of the Association Act, it's the same as the NGO. So it's the same thing. The SRS is opposed to making the most of the lives of young people in Serbia the leaders of these NGOs. We already held the arguments in the debate in principle. Is it not enough that it is, for example, just to develop a national strategy for young people, so to speak? 85.5 million dinars went to the NGO sector? You know, that real information might best come when actors start bringing out their own dirty stuff in the light of the day. Yesterday, in a daily list, nearly the entire party is committed to a certain dispute between NGOs over 3.5m euros in donations from international funds. There we could see that individuals had placed their family members in directorial posts and provided them with a salary of 2,800 euros a month. They are simply called NGOs, otherwise a large part of their activities is financed from the budget of the Republic and the budget of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57544	Two minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has Snezana Samardzic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57545	Thank you, Madam Chairman. When it comes to a particular NGO, which you mentioned, or the association of citizens you mentioned, that you read in the paper, we did not cooperate with them and we cannot take any responsibility for their business. As for the amendment itself, since otherwise there is a law in the spirit, first of all, not the obligation, but the possibilities that are being opened, we accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57546	I understand the minister has accepted the amendment. National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57547	I think it's the right decision. I thank the Minister for his understanding. It is true that, in order to avoid misunderstandings, this NGO, which was in the paper yesterday, is true that it did not cooperate with you. But I wouldn't repeat it now, one other NGO, which took part in the development of the strategy, 47 associations were engaged, and only one for four projects took more than ten million dinars. In any case, it is good that this amendment of the SRS is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57548	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Đuric, Marija Bulgarian and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by National MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57549	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I notice that we are getting smaller, clearly tennis is more relevant than young people, so much so that we know. The DSS, on Article 13, wrote the amendment to Article 5, saying that this item 5 should be deleted. What does that article 5 say? "Young people can join informal associations whose objectives or areas of achieving youth-oriented goals are in line with this law, which act in accordance with the law governing the establishment and legal position of the association." So we thought this attitude should be erased. We'll explain what makes us think that. This third chapter of the law is, in fact, associations that carry out youth activities. We really don't mind that this law regulates one part of this activity, but this law then enters the area of another law recently passed here, it's the Law on Citizens' Associations, which also very clearly prescribes everything necessary to establish a formal or informal association, explained that some may be in the register, and may not be in the register. We understand your attempt, this is perfectly fine because you follow international documents and UN Resolution 64/134, it is perfectly fine that you have introduced categories of informal association and volunteer work and it is all fine, but we believe, as my colleague Dimitrijevic said in the previous address, that here two laws come back in, I can freely say conflict, as was the problem with the Social Protection Act and which does not follow all the provisions that have been followed by some other documents that have been passed and the laws that have been passed in this country, so here will be the problem. Why, for example, would you now determine young people that they could join in informal associations, if that was already laid down by some other law? We simply feel that there is no need to duplicate the norm, there are laws that regulate it, there is no problem for you to repeat the norms, as you have repeated in many places under some other laws, the Law against Discrimination, etc., but I just don't think that's the essence of the law. For these reasons, we commented, when we spoke in principle, that you were simply entering this law a little bit into this area, a little bit in that area, and then wondering what the law does? You're putting us in that position to ask what the law is about, simply because you're entering the area of Secretary-General Milan Markovic, who I don't know how it is in the government, if the law is being considered properly, simply how did he allow you to edit an area that his law already regulates? On the other hand, you're still asking that, say, you keep records and prescribe what a youth association should look like. There's no need, it's prescribed. However, you're mostly in agreement with this previous law, so it won't be a problem to follow, but I don't see why we prescribe the law from each other, I just don't see why it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57550	Three minutes 30 seconds from the MP's time. The word has Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57551	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Of course, the minister in charge was consulted, because his ministry received this bill of opinion and gave its consent, which we can give you of course and written proof for and without its consent, this, as well as other laws, would not even come to the government. The reason why we mentioned informal youth associations is that we could if there were some activities that they wanted to deal with in the framework of youth policy so that we could give about certain funding from the budget. In fact, you must know, since you are obviously very familiar with youth policy, student parliaments that are extremely active. I'll tell you, for example, in Požega, the high school student parliament would help refresh the environment practically one old failed tap in Požega, in the middle of the square, returning some funds to life and getting some funding from us. In short, in order to give them a chance, for example, not according to those youth associations that can't have bills, but they can still get some funding, we have therefore recognised in this law, and precisely because young people are not constantly obliged to start associations of citizens, because they are honored that young people are obliged to join in the association of citizens, just so they don't have to, we give them this possibility in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57552	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57553	I fully understand and support your approach, but it already supports this previous Law on Citizens' Associations. So he also recognized him as the informal association and formal association, and he recognized them and gave them that opportunity. There's no reason to double that possibility. I mean, somewhere they're going to get something excessively much, but simply there's already that as a provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57554	Youth and Sports Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57555	It's about those associations that have a higher percentage of young people, and that's why they're recognized in this law, because of a certain proportion of young people where we have a guarantee that young people work with young people and because there are student parliaments, as I said, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57556	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicević submitted to the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić – Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57557	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 15 paragraph 2 of Paragraph 5, which otherwise refers to the record referred to in Article 1 and to what is to be contained in paragraph 5, reads: "The personal name and unique birth number of the citizens, i.e. the number of travel documents and states of the issuing of the travel document, representative of the association". We have replaced it, we believe that it should only be replaced by the words, or after the words "number of travel documents" said: "State, issuing the travel document of the representatives of the association: "we are changing the words of "the representative of the association issued in the Republic of Serbia". We think it's simpler, so it's the same, so we just thought it was a lot simpler to say all this than to list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57558	The word is Snezana Samardzic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57559	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Without wanting to get into the controversy whether it was simpler, more acceptable, shorter and easier to work, we were simply obliged to comply with the Law on Associations. Your amendment would then represent something that didn't comply with the Association Act and then we couldn't even accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57560	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostresk, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments together were submitted to Article 16 by the MPs Elvira Kovac, Ballitn Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57561	Article 16 speaks of the Youth Council and predicts that the government, on a proposal from the ministries, will educate the Youth Council. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union shall, in accordance with the rules of procedure laid down in this Regulation, adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Members of the 13th and 14th talk about the association of young people and youth associations, that is, the Council of the Youth Association and youth associations. In the 3rd position, you predicted that at least one third of the members of the Youth Council consist of representatives of young people from the order of these associations, or NGOs, as explained well by counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic. We think this attitude should be erased. First of all, why is it only forging to what extent these NGOs will be represented? Why didn't you do it for all those who would do the Youth Council? What distribution will be within these governmental, or governmental bodies? Of course, you just wanted to force these NGOs, and you explain why the amendment is unacceptable to you, that one of the objectives of what you call the law, and we argue that it is not the law, the participation of young people in all organs and bodies dealing with issues of importance for young people, and that the Council for Young Advisory Body of Government, which has an advisory role, and it deals with issues of key importance and interest for young people, you are of the opinion that the solution offered is justified to allow the participation of young people in the work of the Youth Council. A short time ago, Madam Minister, when she was answering her colleague Lidija Dimitrijevic, explained that these NGOs treated by this text do not refer to those that Lydia Dimitrijevic spoke of, which are now publicly disputed about some large amount of money, it is the Natasa Kandic humanitarian fund, but it should be known that for the development of the Youth Strategy, a fellow MP here said that thousands of young people were involved in this proposal that was being discussed, and 10.2 million dinars were given to the development of a strategy within some projects by Sonja Licht. Excuse me, as far as the SRS, Sonja Licht, Borka Pavicevic, Natasa Kandić, Sonja Biserko, are exactly the same, only slightly different-looking. Their policy, their attitude towards the state, according to the national interests of the Serbian state are identical. It's amazing for us, and, of course, we think it's a big scandal that you gave 10.2 million dinars to make a strategy for young Sonja Licht from the state budget. It is unacceptable, from the point of view of the SRS, that Sonja Licht, Borka Pavicevic, Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, in any way affect the education of young people in Serbia and that they educate them in any way through some of their projects, whatever they are. That is the fundamental and fundamental reason why we have, with this amendment, insisted on erasing this position. You still guarantee that they will make up at least one third of their members in this youth council. Imagine, these four women being on that youth council. You say in the explanation - the goal is to keep the young ones involved. Well, from what generation is Sonja Licht, Mrs Samardzic? Is she from this young generation that works in the interest of young people? It does not work in the interests of either young or old, or anyone who is a citizen of the Serbian state and does not work in the interests of Serbian citizens. She, like these other three, works in the interest of those other people who pay them more than you do. Unfortunately, 10 million, Serbia's citizens are probably now disgusted to hear that Sonja Licht has been paid out of the 10.2m dinar budget. For what? To work out a strategy for young people. God save me. That's really scary. Then you're telling us that you want to force young people to work for young people, to include them in some streams, etc. So this is one big coaster. You have not answered, I repeat, any questions relating specifically to the jurisdiction of your ministry, when it comes to young people. You said nothing but: the law of cooperatives will be passed, and youth cooperatives that rob young people, 100,000 young people, and when will you do so? Wasn't that any different than this, which doesn't look like anything, which isn't the law? Wasn't it more likely to solve what was really a fundamental problem? We received a letter from the Boxing Federation of Serbia, informing us and asking us to publicly say that Mrs. Minister has disobeyed the decision of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which also concerns the assistance of young people. Will you give us an answer? You've received more letters, Madam Minister, from young people gathering around a football club in Jacob. There they are kidnapped by the president of the municipality, Vojica Janosevic, a member of the DS, kidnaps a football club and an object and a playground and opens a pub there, etc., and young people from Jacob, from the Surcin municipality want to play sports, gather at the playground, in that building they built only by contributing their grandfathers, fathers and they would now use it. I can't, not that DS. Is that the interest of young people, Madam Minister? Of course not, and of course you haven't answered a single question. You are here to answer formally, now you will repeat what it says here, that your goal is to involve young people in all organs and bodies dealing with issues of importance for young people, and we repeat questions of importance for young people, I do not believe that you agree with this, issues of importance for young people are education, free or at least at acceptable prices, employment, concern for young people who would stay in the country, in their country, on their homeland, how to stay, what the state of Serbia offers them. These are the essential problems of housing security. Is it a message to young people that what a wealthy governor from 10% increased to 30% participation in obtaining a loan for the apartment? Is that a message for young people? For cars, too, 30%. Is that what the Government of the Republic of Serbia does for young people? No, the government of the Republic of Serbia includes Sonja Licht to take care of young people and get 10.2 million dinars. What could you have done for 10.2 million dinars for young people in Serbia? How many jobs were you able to open for giving Sonja Licht and her Political Extraordinary Fund? It's really amazing. What is essential, this ministry and this government don't care about what are essential problems. What we're discussing today, and the other day we were discussing, this is a game, this is a young people's socializing. You will say that there is no education and education system in your work. No, but you're sitting in the same government. Did you happen to watch a puzzle show the night before last? Have you seen the noise and the shame, the college-educated guy, competing in knowledge, they need to connect the administrative districts to the centers of these administrative districts. He says -- west-back county, its headquarters in Valjevo? Do you understand how far you've brought these 11 years of these young people? You have irretrievably destroyed generations, you of DOS, in all forms, irrevocably. We used to talk about it. The fact that you've destroyed factories, which were criminal privatisations, we've been talking about it for years, now they've ordered your bosses, so you're going to have to question that. That some responsible government will be able to compensate, but what you're destroying generations of young people, it's permanently lost. And that's the problem. You're dealing with a little bit of what should really be your ministry's jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57562	Ten minutes and 33 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. It's available for another 45 seconds. The word has Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57563	Thank you, Madam Chairman. As for the issues of the Cooperative Law, I must tell you that he is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, so we couldn't speed up the adoption of that law. As far as the Boxing Federation is concerned, it's something that happened three years ago. In any case, the certified president of the Boxing Union is Mr. Velizar Djeric and that was something that was the issue of the Assembly, the Electoral Assembly of the Boxing Union and it is not the subject of any of the amendments. In any case, what you've mentioned is about 10 million, I'd just say that's a consolidated figure, not for one year, but for four years about how much the ministry is working together, among other things, and with that association of citizens. What is most important is why we rejected this amendment is that this law aims to ensure the participatoryness of young people, that they participate in the advisory body, means as much as possible. However, so as not to choose the ministry, how can we choose? We say, on the street we like this or that young man, we had to provide a way to delegate young people. The way to delegate young people, among other things, is to delegate them from association and alliance. If you read the final position of Article 16 carefully, it is said – at least one third of the members of the Youth Council are representatives of the youth in the order of association and alliances, so that this lady you mentioned, since she is over 30 years old, cannot participate in the work of this council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57564	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57565	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In Article 16, we provided for the addition of a new position on the 3rd – the Youth Council is taking part in the development of an annual report on the position of young people in the Republic of Serbia. It's not written by the Youth Council, it's part of the work. The explanation we got, I have to say it has nothing to do with logic. The amendment is rejected because the adoption of the amendment would change the essence and role of the Youth Council. I just don't want to comment on this. I can think of another thought. You see, you've been commended for submitting regular annual reports and that's fine. Why don't you include the Youth Council in writing and passing annual reports? I guess it's young people who know what the situation is and whether that policy is progressing or whether it's stagnating, or what's happening to young people. Or do you have in mind something else, that this real report, where young people would participate, would be hidden from the face of the public? It's the only logical explanation. Why don't you include the Youth Council on writing the report? You intend to hide something. You're just trying to hide what we've been talking about all afternoon. How can participation in writing an annual report change the essence of the Youth Council's role in this law? How can he do that? What changes the role of the Youth Council? Do you want to turn them off? You'll let them be the advisory body of the ministry here, and when it comes to writing a report, they're nowhere to be found. So, the only ministry knows what the state of affairs is about youth politics. That's not right. It's just not right. Let the young people participate in that annual report and let them say what the real situation is, and on this basis we will know whether this law is enforceable, or not enforceable, whether it is good, bad, etc. What's the law? We said that in the afternoon debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57566	The word has a youth and sports minister, Snezana Samardzic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57567	Thank you. First, I'll tell you that it's our practice to include young people, as you've seen, in the creation of a strategy, even in the making of laws, so we've included them in the development of a report on the application of the Action Plan. Of course, we have no intention of hiding anything from anyone. The reasons why we haven't been able to accept your amendment are two. One is about the education of the government's temporary working body, which is about the government's Rules of Procedure, and is projected by the ministries to file reports. But what is also important, we cannot make a commitment for members of the National Youth Council to participate in the draft report because their work is voluntary. And we can't impose laws on them right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57568	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57569	You know what, that argument of yours just doesn't drink water. You include them in the ministry's work, based on what you say – the government, on a proposal from the ministry, educates the advice for young people as an advisory body that encourages them, harmonizes activities related to development, achievement and implementation of youth policy and proposes measures to identify them. It's volunteer work, right? Yes, it is. Why wouldn't it be that extra part, if it were to propose some measures to implement the policy of determination, why not write a report on these measures? They can propose some measures by day, which can lead to improved youth policy without you accepting it and then in the annual report there is no such thing as what they have proposed. Do you understand what I'm talking about? If you've already given them the opportunity to volunteer, what is it for young people too much of an obligation to participate in the annual report? I guess they're the ones who're gonna figure out whether it was okay or not. This does not change the essence of the law, nor does it change the essence of the role of the Youth Council. It just needs to be accepted, which is normal. There's something that's said that transparency is an excellent way to disinfect, you know? When there's no transparency, you know, then anything is possible in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57570	A minute and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57571	Thank you, Madam Chairman, we are consulting and are scheduled to consult the Council, that this report is also shown to him and that he can make his contributions and comments, but not to write a report, because it is a voluntary matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57572	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57573	I'm sure you haven't read the amendment now. I'll read it to you. "The Youth Council, together with the ministry, participates in drawing up an annual report on the position of young people." He writes – he participates. It could be an advisory body. It's not the name or the last name, it's the one that's involved. You won't even participate. What's the problem? You won't have them at all. When you need to work on one, then you work, and when you have to, you can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57574	Thirty seconds. The word has Snezana Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57575	If you're thinking only of that participation, of that kind of participation, it's already being understood in these other elements of the Council's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57576	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Đuric, Marija Bulgarian and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Maria Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57577	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 16 in which we wanted to add points 4 and 5. I would agree with my previous colleague that the 4th Mah stand is the same – the Youth Council is obliged to report on the work of the competent ministry. That's what my previous DSS colleague explained why it matters, even though it's voluntary, as you, Madam Minister, have just explained. I think there are wills and desires amongst young people, when they're already doing it at the Council of Volunteers, to do a report. I think that's where the attention should have been given to Section 4. We also wanted the mandate of members of the Council to be limited to a certain period. We predicted it would be four years. We wanted, in fact, to provide this amendment to monitor the Youth Council, which allows for more transparency of the work of the entire council. After all, we feel that this is a restriction on the work of the Youth Council, i.e. to limit their mandate, let's say, we proposed for four years. Still, it will affirm and encourage many more young people to participate in all of this. That was the purpose of this amendment. Also, I must express regret that no LDP amendment has been accepted. I'd also say something about an amendment to Article 13, which we just skipped, so I'd just be able to relate, in which we said, in paragraph 3 after "membership if I could participate," the words "and the managing authorities" are added. What did we also want to say? We were going to say that it's not enough to have a condition attached to the environment, if it's two-thirds. Two-thirds of the membership should be made young, it is necessary, meaning to encourage and take responsibility both in a more direct way for the participation of young people and in decision-making, not only to be members, but also to be in the places where it is decided. It is wrong to encourage the existing legal provision to encourage the tutorship of older people and the situation in which associations are managed by older members and officials, while in membership to a large extent, i.e. To the most extent, they find young people. I know you're going to say it's some kind of discrimination, but believe it's a positive discrimination that can always seem stimulating and affirmative, and certainly not negative. Our goal was to speed up the work of these tips and all of this. I'm glad some of my colleagues here are quoting me, but I'm not glad they're getting out of the context of my statement. I understand the need of some colleagues to defend this law, they are simply from the ruling coalition, I am from the opposition, and it is simply nearer the elections, so I need to position myself as best as possible on the upcoming list of elections for MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57578	One minute and 25 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has Snezana Samardzic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57579	Thank you, Madam Chairman. On the occasion of the amendments to Article 13, where you have suggested that the boards of the Youth Association be one-third, i.e. to be on boards and representatives of young people, I can immediately tell you that we wanted to accept this amendment, especially in order to ensure not only in the Assembly, but also in the bodies of youth participation. However, the Legislative Committee of this Parliament and many others have found that it is an unconstitutional category, or that your amendment is not in accordance with the Constitution and we were not in a position to accept it. As for the amendment to Article 16, it is really not possible for the Council established by the Government to submit the reports to the competent ministry, as regards Item 4, under the Government's Rules of Procedure. His role is advisory, and sooner the ministry can report to the council than vice versa. However, as far as Article 5 is concerned, where you have proposed a four-year limitation, that would be an acceptable position for us, however, we cannot accept the entire amendment. So either I can do the whole amendment or I can't. I cannot accept this view because of it, and perhaps because, in a sense, it exists in Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government. - The decision on the education of the occasional working body ceases to apply over time to which it is educated. So it would be a certain pleonasm. In that sense, we couldn't accept any of your two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57580	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? National MP Mico Rogovic gets his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57581	The SNS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 19. In order not to be misunderstood at the beginning, I need to explain what we wanted, that the legal proposal in article 18 is deleted for the reason that local self-government members 182 to 193. The constitution is prescribed that local self-governments can arrange and provide for the activities and establish services by the decisions of their bodies and statutes. The provisions do not prescribe an obligation to set up an office, as provided for in Article 18 of the existing Bill. This practically legalises the state of current primary offices for young people. It all stands out, but then this Article 19. I have to connect with Article 22 and the amendment that we have submitted to the said article, that the bill in Article 22(2) is deleted, where it says that programme operators and projects referred to in Article 21(2) of this Act must have basic offices for young people. Someone may have basic offices for young people or have established them in the previous period, however, some of the municipalities have not yet done so, probably have problems with their budgets. You will have to admit that the establishment of an office for young people also carries some additional costs and all that goes with it, and the budgets of poor municipalities have probably not yet done so with their decisions and statutes because they do not have the necessary and necessary budgets. The question is whether part of the municipalities will do so in the future. According to Articles 182 to 193. The Constitution, it can also be done by a referent, for example, for young people, not to be an office, but to be some referent, in the context of their jobs or in the context of their work, or to be a reference to young people, to do this programme that is foreseen by this law and regardless of all other things that are not intended and understood, and are related to the work of young people and their activities. There is an automatic discrimination against these municipalities that they cannot compete with the Ministry of Fundamental Resources, since they do not have offices for young people. These two members I had to connect that it would not simply be observed only by Article 18, unrelated to Article 22, because when they connect, there really is a problem in the realisation of the funds, i.e. the competition for the funds that the Ministry provides, and they are related to municipalities, especially poor municipalities that cannot compete, since they do not have an open office for young people, and it can bear another name, that in the form of some body that is a referencer, it runs this and does jobs for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57582	One minute was used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has Snezana Samardzic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57583	Thank you. First of all, I will tell you that our condition is simply to finance the Youth Office programme – the existence of an office for young people. How do we finance the youth office program if it doesn't exist? On the subject of the referents you're talking about, that one reference officer who is normally in charge of the youth is in charge of doing so, I think it is correct and should not impose new expenditure on municipalities for new salaries, but the thing is then we have their administrative decisions that this same person is working in the office for young people, that it is established because it does not constitute any special costs, but is an institutional signal of concern for young people and the possibility of these programs being implemented in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57584	The People's Messenger Otto Kishmarton has the word, and the People's Messenger Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57585	Thank you, I just want to introduce you to one fact that since you're constantly talking about the number of employees in youth offices, it's like there are hundreds of them who are employed in a youth office. I will tell you of 123 young people's offices, which currently exist in the Republic of Serbia, only 35 local self-government have managed to systemize one job, means that the total staff in local youth offices has 35. So I would most kindly pray that that number is not mystified as if it were there, and I don't know how many. So unfortunately, there are no more than 35 in these offices. Others manage by contract or possibly by some other reference and by volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57586	The People's MP Alexander Pejcic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57587	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I took a word on this amendment, and about the youth office and you said yourself that at this point we have about 123 young people's offices. We warned you about the Sports Committee and now people who work in these offices abuse their functions and use them for party promotions. In that sense, I would ask you as a resolute minister to pay a little more attention to the work of these youth offices and to report to the Youth and Sports Committee on this issue in some subsequent period. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57588	Snow White Samardzic-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57589	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First of all, I would be happy to accept yours, as I have accepted on the board. We usually check to the extent that it's in the Ministry's power. I repeat once again, local offices for young people as well as in laws stand and in practice is currently a reality and that they really are in charge of local self-government. So the Youth and Sports Ministry and I personally don't have any interference in human policy within the youth office. The only thing we can do is warn them. These warnings can be notified to the Committee if there are reports, and that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57590	The People's Messenger Otto Kishmarton, and the People's Messenger Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57591	Thank you. Just a little bit, Madam Minister, to be clear, I'm not against hiring young people in the office if that youth office has the results to improve the conditions for these young people in any way. If he can get a job, he can have a bigger number of employees. I'm not against the fact that the office doesn't have to have employees or that it's a big expense. It may be that there will be more employees in that city who will make life better for these young people, so it's not just that they don't need an office to do it so they don't hire someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57592	The word is made by Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57593	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I just want to, of course, agree with what you said was something that's positive and that needs to be supported. I'll tell you that the meaning of successful young people's offices is visible in the fact that young people are provided especially in small places, where there's not much room for dating and gathering young people, provides them with one way to build their time, among other things. Well, here's an example of the local youth office in Ivanjica, which has been regularly organizing Nusiciad for several years. We believe that amateur theatres that young people so organize are very welcome. That is not only, I have also cited in principle the example that 98 local youth offices included young people in entrepreneurship training, for example, and that I do not repeat myself through informal education to help them in employment, or self-employment. So local youth offices have really great roles when they're successful, and that's why we encourage their establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57594	The People's MP Alexander Pejcic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57595	As far as our findings are concerned, which we have made in the principle debate, which is that this law does not oblige anyone, or sanction, and so does these offices for young people. We here do not impute you, Madam Minister, as a resolute minister, but conditioned to say that the law at all does not oblige these offices for young people, or local self-government to punish them, to disband them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57596	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57597	It's just the public, I think we need some clarification. What the SNS has proposed is to delete the amendments, so erasure the possibility of municipalities to local self-government within their ability to establish an office for young people. So, if this amendment were to be accepted, the concern for young people and the existence of an office for young people in local self-government would have no legal basis. On the other hand, in an explanation, we hear from one of the signatories of this amendment, counterparts Otto Kishmarton, that he has no objection to the establishment of a youth office, etc., that it is necessary to provide such an opportunity for units of local self-government. So I would like to take this debate a little bit more seriously in the future, which is why my colleague, Pejcic, has made an excellent conclusion, if the law does not impose an obligation on local self-governments, precisely respecting the fact that local self-government in the way they are organised has the most frequent problems with its financing, but why not give them the legal possibility that, either by setting up a special office, or that someone within the already existing systematization and doing certain jobs, to be added to the work in the office for young people, and I think this is a very good proposal that the ministry made.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57598	One minute and thirty seconds used by the MP's group. MP Otto Kishmarton, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57599	Just to make it right, if I understand correctly, my colleague said that I support this law. No, I don't. I said I wasn't against it, if it's in the youth office, if it's doing its proper job and if they have more employees to work these people and to work for a salary. I'm not into opening an office. We have a office now, and we also have youth homes that can do that function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57600	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment were submitted together by MPs Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic and MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Who wants a word. Here you go. National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57601	Since the debate in principle has brought forth a lot of arguments, which is why we should not set up an agency, however, this amendment has not been accepted. I guess we need another argument. During the debate in principle, Madam Minister told us that one of the MPs said that the establishment of an agency is planned to adapt our regulations to EU regulations but that it is not true. That this bill only gives the possibility to establish an agency one day when Serbia gets EU candidate status to implement youth programmes through it. The SRS really sees no problem in implementing youth programmes in the Constitution to the intended authorities. At this point and since its founding, the project holder is the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Also when we talk about the organs that already exist. In the debate in principle, Dr. Paja Momchilove had certain questions concerning the youth talent fund. The data on the ministry's work is related to the implementation of the 2010 budget. The SRS is interested in making the percentage of zero per cent to support student scholarships on exchange, 2601-8, the first component. 95 million were scheduled through the fund, which is why the money was lagging behind. Since you justify the intention to establish a youth agency, although we in the SRS think Serbia will almost not get EU membership candidate status because conditioning is really too big. It starts with that economic area, a defined Stabilisation Association Agreement, where Serbia is forced to give up acts of customs, in order for EU goods to be sold more in our market, through insistence that not all government organisations fully anti-Serbian definition are setting conditions for our children's lives, because the EU's constantly demanded that this so-called. The civil sector is asking for everything. Finally, on the last day, we have an increasingly open condition that Kosovo's independence must be recognised on the road to EU integration. So, since you support the intention to set up agencies that day, do you feel that the Youth and Sports Ministry should then abolish the Youth Sector and change the name of the ministry? Why would there be two state bodies? One legal, when I say that, I mean the Ministry and the other illegal, I mean the agency. These two bodies would double jurisdiction. There are over a hundred such illegal organs in Serbia and a lot of budget money is spent on their work. In February 2009, most of the directors of public agencies had three times the salary of the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Does that mean they work three times as hard as the ministers? Is their responsibility three times greater? Are they credited with anything three times the merits of the ministers? At the time when data were made on the level of receiving the director of the agencies, it was done to insist on the SRS, as Mr. Todorovic daily sought and insisted that the data be published. After so much demand here in the National Assembly, the government had to disclose the requested information. However, not all directors provided data, and to this day none of them lacked head hair because they had not fulfilled their obligation. First, because the agencies are non-constitutional bodies with doubled powers, as well as legal authorities, and then because of the ossional behaviour when it comes to Serbia's taxpayers' money. The SRS disagrees with the existence of agencies. Even if Serbia opposes the will of most citizens, but because such a commitment is currently in power, it acquires candidate status, we are sure that the next day you will immediately form an agency, give the director a high salary, hire some people. Although the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the state administration on the basis of which many people, who are not members of non-governmental parties, are left without a job in the midst of the economic crisis, there is one provision that says new people can still be hired in bodies that exist or are founded because of Serbia's integration into the EU. What would young people in Serbia get by setting up a youth agency? A young high-paying director, young high-paying sector managers, young employees of a professional service with not very high wages, who would really win, because in Serbia today to get a job in a job that is not so bad, it's really just a dream. What would you do? In fact, the agency would connect young people in Serbia with NGOs or as they have recently been called the popular civil sector, all in order to write projects. Young people in Serbia really don't get anything from this bill, because in no case is the main interest of young people to be members of some associations where they would achieve their goal. In fact, they only give their membership the power to decide on their today and tomorrow. It is a pity that the enormous power of decision on the quality of young people is held in their hands by Sonja Licht and similar to her and that these laws intend to provide them with even greater power. You say it won't be because of the years, it won't be on the youth council personally, it won't be them, but there will be people from their organizations. It's the same for you. The other party that characterizes this law is trying to impose awareness on young people that they will only be able to achieve something in life if they are members of a political party, too, is not happy. In principle, during the debate, we started a very interesting topic. Whether the Ministry of Youth and Sports has enough staff and is the problem that if there are no professional staff, new people are hired. There is no problem that with all the state authorities where there really is a need for people who are skilled in certain areas to hire a certain number of people. To be honest, this would not be about a large number of people, even one agency would have more employees than all people who lack legal state authorities would be replaced. The problem is that there are too many agencies with a considerable number of employees in them. When the government is doing a budget rebalancing that should have been done immediately after the reconstruction in March, the SRS will propose to first delete all agencies established since the start of the economic crisis and the adoption of laws on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the republican administration, and then we will propose that all other agencies and bodies that are unconstitutional be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57602	Minister Markovic – Samardzic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57603	Thank you, Madam Chairman. As you can see, this is where the agency is supposed to be founded, but it's not said to be founded. It will be according to a special law in case we get candidate status, and I have to tell you that in some countries they have a united youth agency with life-long learning agencies. Perhaps the Ministry of Education will participate, etc. In order not to be mistaken, first of all, it has to be an independent agency and it will not be hiring in that agency, not under the Law on Civil Service, but under the Labour Act, because they are independent of that number of government officials. What young people can get, which is to use EU funds. It is currently done by having a similar agency in Slovenia, which is responsible for our region. I believe that in Serbia we should be in charge of our country, not over another bridge to withdraw those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57604	National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57605	I absolutely agree that all projects in RS, unrelated to young people in general, should be competent authorities in Serbia. I don't see what the problem is that they're legal constitutional authorities, that they're ministries, but that there have to be agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57606	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57607	Because the Youth in Action programme, it is a European Commission programme, envisions the existence of youth agencies or lifelong learning united. Every country, EU member and candidate country must have an independent agency dealing exclusively with youth and the programme. So that's what the Youth in Action program is called.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57608	Thank you, Madam Minister. The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prescriba group, Serbia and joint MPs Donka Bankovic, Milica Vojic – Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić – Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57609	Thank you, Madam President, Madam Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 19 says that in order to implement the Youth Programme, and in line with EU youth-related programmes, the agency can be educated in accordance with special law. Of course, I would pay public attention to two words "can" and to the words "under special law". It's simple, my question is with what law? We have proposed an amendment to delete this entire member. We don't think a special agency should be set up. Now I'm going to state the reasons why I think it is. There are double jobs, which and how the ministry can do, and this is too much administration and we really have too many employees. They warn us from the EU to bring down the number of state officials, to reduce the number of administrations and everything else. Our national administrations are too big. I won't accept the argument that it's not a state, that it's not civil servants. What's the third argument, I'm absolutely sure, so you can hold me by my word that the day the law is passed, the next day will be working to form this agency. So it won't be possible but it'll be a question we're working on right now. Secondly, when I read the article, I really said – all kinds of things. Then I realized that this is very expensive for the citizens of Serbia. And those Serbian citizens who don't have a job, those Serbian citizens who don't know where to work. The 750 thousand living below the poverty line. A million citizens live in poverty, half our citizens feel poor. It's those citizens who can't pay for their children's education, who don't even have health insurance. I think at this point in the state of Serbia, and I listened very carefully when the MPs of a parliamentary group, who is in power, said that everything in this country is actually good and that only the opposition MPs are making a question about how much it costs a state. So our opinion is that really, at the moment we're at today, which is that we're really in debt a little less than Greece, and that's the question of whether we're a little less, there's no point in establishing an agency. In some other circumstances, under other conditions, we might talk about it. At this point, I really think it's an excessively large luxury for Serbia. One responsible state, one responsible government, of course, that I understand that you are not the one, would think twice before introducing such a possibility into any law, knowing the state of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57610	Minister Markovic-Samardzic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57611	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First, I'd like to take the opportunity to tell you what steps are needed to form an agency like this. I don't think it's even realistic that this government, even if it gets candidate status by the end of the year, is not realistic to establish it for its term of office, because it takes special information to be adopted by the Government, it takes a special law when it's going to be an opportunity to discuss all these elements, who would be hired and how. A special law on this must be passed in the Assembly. Then special preparatory measures should be made, including the European Commission's accreditation of the agency, so there are indeed many administrative steps to reach the agency one day, where parliament will be consulted. That's why we, among other things, predicted that this would be regulated by a special law. What I wanted to tell you, in addition to being forced now, as a country, to use these funds via Slovenia, which I don't think is justified, and you probably think that when you insist so much on not bringing in, or setting up an agency, I'll tell you that in addition to having to use Slovenia, Slovenian agencies, that we are withdrawing these funds, we are currently three contact points, another way instead of the agency, that the contact points are withdrawing funds from the European Commission. Otherwise, the level of funds is about 885m euros, the amount of the Jutineksn fund, i.e. for the Youth in Action programme. Three contact points are accredited which are currently doing so on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. One is the group "Come on" from Belgrade, the second is the "Educative Centre Kruševac", and the third is "Balkan idea" from Novi Sad. At this point, citizens' associations are doing it. They were authorised by the European Commission. When the agency is established, then the agency will be able to do it instead of our distinguished colleagues from Slovenia and citizens' associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57612	MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57613	The SNS is to delete this member. Now there is a dilemma here, because the minister says that the EU is asking us to set up an agency and that we need to have those agencies. Then why does the bill stand – we can set up an agency? Based on what you said, we should not put – we can – a youth agency is established. Otherwise, we're against establishing an agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57614	The Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57615	The EU does not ask, does not ask us to form an agency. In order to withdraw the fund, we do not have to withdraw these funds, no one is forcing us, 885m euros do not have to be made available to young people from Serbia, no one is forcing us, but it is the fact that we create an opportunity for our young people to get to that fund easier. That's the whole point. That's why we say -- it can be, I think it's justified in this law, and then it can be regulated by a special law, which will be a lot of demands on the administrative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57616	MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57617	I assumed this member of the law would cause a great controversy with the MP. We talked about it in the principle debate. However, I would ask one question, you said an 885 million fund -- how much has Serbia withdrawn from these funds so far? Do we know? The second thing, you as a resolute minister can accept this amendment when Serbia gets candidate status, you can amend and supplement this law and all the satisfied, satisfied opposition, satisfied power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57618	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57619	I'm sorry, we don't have the exact number on what the money is, but I can tell you since the ministry was founded, 140 projects from that fund have been funded, exclusively from that fund, and we can then ask each individual for how much money he took. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57620	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57621	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have now given us two different things. On the one hand, Slovenia is the one through which we can compete for 885m euros in European funds. My question was also, I was very interested in seeing how much money we got, so I could compare how much the agency would make sense then, and on the other hand, you gave us the information that those funds were withdrawing and now very uninterrupted through the citizens' association. Isn't it normal, then, that youth organisations, youth associations, young people in any formal or informal way who want to withdraw funds through projects, can make associations. Just volunteering at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57622	The Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57623	Yeah, if that's all citizens' associations do, then I can only use five possible targets, but if we have an agency, then we can do all five. What's important to say is that we don't have the exact money records, it's got the European Commission, and we're going to pass on that our Parliament asked us, specifically you, to give that kind of data, but what I've told you, of 140 projects, I can, if you want, deliver to you in writing and what kind of projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57624	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57625	Very briefly, if the law leaves the possibility of some special law to determine some matter, then there will be a special debate when the time comes. I don't think there should be too much energy to spend around this, but what is evident is that, not only with these funds, among all EU funds, there is, of course, a certain procedure and there is increased control. The largest part of the EU funds, as we know, is why in the political sense, we are going for agriculture and for the development of undeveloped areas. Just in our population, where there is the greatest resistance and fear, is an unknown EU accession, on the other hand, that kind of population would benefit most from that EU accession, so this type of information seems to me not to be a waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57626	MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57627	Since we already have the Act establishing the Agency, I ask you – what is this special law? Right now, since we're legalizing this law, since the official messenger has made it public, we can already start this agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57628	Minister Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57629	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We can't right away, because we need to agree with Brussels on different conditions and, above all, we need to become a candidate, and then the sea, as he said, where a special law establishing a youth agency or a youth and lifelong learning agency can then be formed. So a special law has to be passed for that. I have a decision ahead of me, for example. Croatian Parliament on the Announcing of the Law on the Agency for Mobility and EU Programmes. They have this kind of agency, others have lifelong learning, but it has to be a special law on the agency, so the criteria of the European Commission are foreseen. It can't be under the domestic law of setting up an agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57630	The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Bojan Mladenovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Marina Toman has submitted that in Article 20, point 6 paragraph 6, he is changing and it is said to be "executing the social empowerment of young people, especially through the promotion of youth labor", to erase among other things the word "volontarism". Too much in this law emphasizes volunteering and encourages volunteering. The SRS is for when something is financed, there are also concrete improvements in young people's lives. This is the subject of a member of the 20th funding of projects of public interest. If the project is of public interest, then the project must produce certain results, so what has already pointed out to you to affect the quality of life of young people and to give them better conditions of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57632	You've just taken advantage of the time of your parliamentary group. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have entered a section called funding and co-financing of programmes and projects of public interest in the youth sector. This Article 21 refers precisely to this because in paragraph 3 he says – the applicant of the programme and the project of public interest in the areas of the youth sector which are financed and co-financed in accordance with the provisions of this law cannot fund the same activities to use at the same time the funds from the Republic, the province and the local budget. The three of us who signed this amendment think this is wrong, because there are programs that are probably of interest to the republican level, the province level, the local level, or at least one of those two. Most of the time they are. These projects can be very specific and they need a lot of resources to live and survive. So I think that attitude 3 should be deleted and it should be possible and found a modus that such valuable projects, those that are of interest, and I'm sure they can be, because now I can get out of my head five, to allow, under the conditions of control of these funds, not to be one organization, so it's political, so it's going through all three levels as it is done in the field of environmental protection, but with strict control, to allow a project to really be financed from at least two sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57634	The word is made by Minister Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57635	Thank you, Madam Chairman, exactly what you said is what our intention is in attitude 3. And that is that projects from at least three budgets can be funded, but they can't be the same projects. No one can ask for the same project, identical, one of the republics, then the province, then the local self-government. So it can be part of the project and it's okay, then you have triple co-financing, but you can't have the same funding. First, what you thought wasn't supposed to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57636	The 22nd amendment was submitted to the same text by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serb and People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57637	First, at first, I have to point out something that could be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but let it go within my time. In fact, the government report that arrived at the National Assembly, I believe that this is a technical service mistake and that it is not deliberate, the basis for a breach of the Rules of Procedure exists. Amendment to Article 22(2) The draft law in the same text, together submitted by the MPs of the people Lidija Dimitrijevic, and here stands some more names, which in no way can happen. Speaking in the debate on the principle of Article 22(2) The proposal for a law on young people, I made the SRS's point of view that it is discriminatory and that is why we proposed to delete it with this amendment. It defined that if it wants to appear as a programme operator and a project of public interest in the youth sector, local self-government must have an established office for young people. This is outrageous. The message sent this way offends young people's intelligence. I want to show how incorrectly this bill has been made. Article 18 defines that the youth office can be established by local self-government within the framework of its powers, needs and opportunities. There's one more thing, it's funded from the budget of local self-government and other sources. What's written in the explanation? The possibility is prescribed, but not the obligation to ensure the conditions of active inclusion of young people, I stress and repeat, not the obligation. I repeat once again, this is incorrect. The argument for such a claim is just Article 22(2), which defines the conditions for funding, co-financing and implementation of programmes and projects of public interest in the youth sector, which clearly states that if a local self-government appears as the operator of the programme, it must have an established office for young people. This is a highly discriminatory provision. The SRS Parliament Club has proposed that it be removed from the bill. You're talking about the possibility first. If you allow units of local self-government to establish an office for young people, you say, not a commitment, but then you deny yourself – you must have an established office for young people. What does the sea mean? That means commitment. If he wants money for funding, co-financing and implementation of projects for young people, units of local self-government, then they have no obligation to set up an office for young people, but he must have an established office for young people. I'd like someone to translate this into Serbian. The bill promoter is well-known possibilities of local self-government units and this sea, it doesn't have to, it kind of coincides with amendments to the law on the financing of local self-government. Local self-governments were so diminished that most of them barely survived, took loans, backward, were powerless to prevent people's standard of living from falling headlong, and fell below the limit of any dignity. When this year's Budget Law was adopted, non-purpose transfers were returned, but because this is a pre-election year, and at that point it was not known whether it would be an election year. The amount of inflation in the course of the two years when transfers were reduced is not mentioned. Now before the elections, here at the National Assembly's extraordinary meetings, the way the local self-government's funding changes, the youth law is passed. It's pretty unclear why the members of the URS, until yesterday's G 17 plus, are angry with new partners when we openly tell them it's all part of pre-election marketing. The debate on funding of local self-government is over and we're not going back to it now, but I'm talking about the Youth Act. We say that the very idea of young people getting their own law just exploited themselves for pre-election purposes, and someone gets angry. We're aware that the truth hurts, but, you asked, look. We don't want to keep quiet while we're actually creating one picture that now the G17 wants to improve the quality of life, not just young people, but all people in Serbia. All remember the stories of 1,000 euros per action, it is also in memory of who is responsible for economic developments in the last 10 years and whose personnel have created economic reality in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57638	I think the Minister gave answers to all the dilemmas you've reopened. I think we heard them. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57639	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore, Article 22 has the title "conditions for funding, co-financing and implementation of the project programme". What we have noticed, and I see other parliamentary groups have noticed, is one of the same methods that you just explained when you told us what the EU is not asking us to make an agency, but it is actually asking if we want to participate in taking money from funds. That's how you behave. You've explained to us first that young people's offices are not the obligation of local self-government, and that one can understand that because there is more than 40% of local self-government that are unable to satisfy their basic functions and indeed a big problem is everything you put before them, beyond those basic things. But, on the other hand, they are not guilty of their citizens being unable to participate, like in Jagodina, for this or for sending to the sea, to bring together couples, to conduct, to make this work, to pay the maternity benefits, etc. It's just, it's not a job that local self-government should do, it's a job that the Republic should do, it's a central job. So, you've given the opportunity to set up offices. Then you said no, and the local self-government realized he didn't have to. But what? But in this Article 22, you say in point 2, if they don't have an office, they can't participate in making funding for programmes and projects. Let me ask you the next thing you know, and that's what we're here predicting as a possibility. Let's take and make an office, let's assume they've applied for projects, but you haven't put in the basics that we think is very important, which is that the operators of the planned project activity, for which compensation is foreseen, can't be employed by the state authority. Why do I say that? We wrote this very meaningfully. Because practice shows exactly the opposite, that whoever is in the state body is very often the bearer of the project and the business carrier. There are several articles written in the media, this story is told on television and nothing to anyone, the project goes on, the project operator works peacefully in the state body, works peacefully in another office for young people, and takes the money peacefully. Here is an example of the assistant director at the railway hospital, who is the assistant director of the company, which is called "Serb Railways". At the same time, he has a private lobbying and lobbying company in five projects approved by Željnica. Don't you think that's a little weird? Of course, healthy logic would be completely absurd to talk about this, but we actually have problems with those alienated tentacles of the party state, who drink wherever they can and whatever the amount of money. Here, of course, in this case I've said, it's not about small amounts of money, nor is it likely that these projects will be about some very small sums of money. This is a leftover opportunity for someone to get big money. I think we understand each other, and I think it's simply important that these abuses, which can be obvious, and which, if you leave them space, become obvious, simply prevent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57640	The Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57641	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since we have somehow returned to questions whether or not the youth offices can be established, as I said, we have opened up the possibility for local self-government to open offices for young people in accordance with their local budgets, and they may or may not, in accordance with their local budget. However, if they ask the Republic budget to co-finance, then they should have, or have a local office to do so. So she's going to do local projects, but I've already said that and I'm not going to say it again. So there is a difference what can be done, what is on the disposition of local self-government and local budget, and what is when something is sought from the Republic's budgets. Then the Republic has the right and obligation to make certain conditions articulate. As for the amendments that you have proposed, that the holder of the planned project activity, for which compensation is provided, cannot be employed by the state authority, and we believe that your argument is not illogical and we thought that the amendment in that sense was not unjustified, even on the contrary. However, we could not accept your amendment because this matter is already governed by other existing laws in the Republic of Serbia. In this case, it's about the Civil Service Act. I will read to you Article 29, which says - a civil servant must not be a deputy director and assistant director of a legal person, and a member of the board of directors, the supervisory board and another body of the management of a legal person may only be appointed by the Government or another state body. As for Article 26, there is also the treatment of this matter that they cannot actually be civil servants in such project tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57642	Thank you. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric, Marija Bulgarian and Kenan Hajdarevic. A colleague, Maria Bulgarcic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57643	Madam President, Your Honor, the objective of this amendment was, of course, this Article 22. – the conditions of funding and co-financing of implementation of projects and programmes. A lot is said in this article and a lot of good is said in this article, but we wanted to explain, simply to write, that after Article 4, we add attitude 5, where we would write – the proposal and evaluation of submitted projects, as well as the decision on funding or co-financing, is done according to pre-defined criteria, publicly published, clearly, transparently and in line with European principles on public administration work. We wanted an amendment to ensure a fairer, fairer and more transparent decision on projects financed or co-financed by the ministry. That was our goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57644	Minister Samardzic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57645	Thank you very much. Of course, transparency is never enough, but what we think is that the bill provides transparency between 22 and 24 members and the corresponding budget rules. However, I will encourage you to look at our practice so far. We in the guidelines of the competition not only publish what criteria and conditions are, but we also publish the scoreboard, the table on which projects will be submitted at all, and we plan to standardise that kind of transparency in sublaws and this kind of practice. That's why we didn't accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57646	The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57647	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I've submitted an amendment to Article 22 and he's complemented by Article 24, so they complement, they have the same effect. It's about transparency. For the sake of the public, let me read about what this is about and what we have submitted to the amendment. Article 22 paragraph 7 says – The Ministry shall publish a list of all participants in the procedure of approved programmes and projects, with the amount of appropriations, as well as a list of approved scholarships and prizes provided for in Articles 21 and 22. We asked this amendment to put the words "authorised" behind the words "unauthorized scholarships". We wanted this law to be as transparent as possible, to be as public as possible, so that participants and candidates who participate in the implementation of these projects in the nomenclature have a list which is why they have been rejected and for which they have received at all. In an explanation that we have received here by the Government, the following is said: the amendment is not accepted, as the publication of data on persons whose programme is, or projects are not approved in a public competition or published names of persons who have applied and have not received scholarships, these persons could without reason be brought into an uncomfortable position. In particular, Madam Minister, if I were to compete at all, I would not be put into an awkward position at all, I would ask you as an incoherent authority or body that decides why I was rejected, that many candidates who will write these programs will ask you to know why they were rejected. It would be good for you to accept this amendment, both for your sake and for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57648	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57649	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Once again, I will read that it stands here -- the Ministry of Official Internet Presentation publishes a list of all participants in the process. Later when we publish a list of those winners, the list of all participants is not abolished, so it is the greatest effort to ensure transparency that someone interested in this compares the list of all participants with the list of winners and thus can easily get an answer who has been rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57650	Mr. Dimitrievich, there's no more time. Mr. Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57651	I'm just not happy with the answer. I'm asking you, which is why I, as a contestant of the competition, couldn't be on the Internet presentation if I knew why I was rejected. I'm on the list as a candidate, but why was I rejected? That's the point of the question. That's the essence of the amendment. Why is someone who was rejected not in the nomenclature and to state the reason why he was given? I don't see why the Ministry couldn't present it to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57652	Mrs. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57653	That's not exactly what the amendment says. In your amendment, and by the law on the availability of information, you can always, if you are a participant, receive such an answer, and sometimes we are obliged to keep an eye on, in accordance with data protection, what is published and what is not published as a list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57654	Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57655	I am taking the opportunity, Madam Minister, to thank you for accepting this amendment, although this amendment is of a technical nature. I essentially said that we have submitted 25 amendments, of which you accepted three and four in the course of the discussion. It is a good practice for a regular MP who comes here to thank you for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57656	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57657	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I don't think it's just technical, that it's actually an improvement, because it gives more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57658	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković and Milan Dimitrijevic and MP Aleksandar Martinović. The government and the Youth and Sports Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Bojan Đurić, Marija Bulgarcic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57659	I said that the amendment to Article 22 and the amendment to Article 24 are complementary and complementary. I expected you to accept both the amendment for transparency. Since it is the discretionary law of the minister as an in-house body, and also in the principle of discussion, I said that Serbia is in the 83rd place, and the government is this law generator of this corruption, it would be good for you to accept these amendments and in a transparent way to show what we asked for by this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57660	The amendment, added by a new member of the 25th, was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57661	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we felt that in Chapter 5, we should add a new Article 25, which reads: "The ministry can educate the sector for the implementation of youth programmes, and in line with EU youth-related programmes." It was our story from before that the agency had no need to set up, because in the ministry such a sector already exists. It is natural, then, that we do not double our competences and our jobs, that it is enough that such a sector exists. On the other hand, we really believe, since some of you sitting next to you as your associates know more positions, so both professionally and while we were MPs, I think you have both qualified and enough associates to carry out the work. That's a compliment to this part of your ministry. We believe that for these very reasons, there is no need for the establishment of any other agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57662	The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 25(1). With this amendment, the SRS parliamentary club proposed that provisions concerning autonomous provinces be properly written in the law. In the title above Articles 25 and in the member himself, the Proposer used a unity when defining how the needs and interests of young people in the youth sector and in the autonomous provinces are achieved. It is unacceptable for the SRS to pass a law with such a big mistake, i.e. that the law be written as if the Republic of Serbia had only one autonomous province. If we take a good look, if we could compare the next member of the bill, article 26 and the title above it, we see that it says: "Achieving the needs and interests of young people in the areas of the youth sector in local self-government units". It is also said in attitude 1. "in local self-government units". So this is where the plural is used, which is logical, because there are more local self-governments. This article 26 is written correctly. However, Article 25 is misspelled. We in the SRS are asking that this amendment be accepted and that what is in accordance with the Constitution be clearly defined, that the Republic of Serbia has two autonomous provinces. Here he leads us to suspect that the promoter did this on purpose and thus in an indirect manner disowning one of his provinces, disowning the works of his territory. Whenever we in the SRS openly tell the representatives of the authorities that by seeing politics in relation to the KiM they violate the Constitution, they immediately try to defend and deny themselves, and the facts say something else. I suggest that three amendments be accepted to Article 25, which has been submitted by the SRS parliamentary club and that you level the arches, either technical and linguistic or any other nature, in relation to the units of local self-government and autonomous province. That's the only move you'd show that only one small part you're treating with this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57664	Mr. Ljubenovic, time. MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57665	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, patience and you'll know what I want and what the ruling majority wants. All you have to do is listen carefully and eventually take notes when we speak, and many of the ambiguities will be removed. So here is the term – the autonomous province is used in the single, just as the term is used – unit of local self-government, in the single, as the term is used – municipality in the only, as the term is used – city in the single. By no desire, nor should you tell us anything that no one in this room wants, which no one in this country wants. So, the constitution of this country is clearly defined, KIM are an integral, inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. In this law, it is clear and precise that they write all the provisions and provisions, all the unknowns are removed and there is no misunderstanding of the text of this law, nor is there any desire to deny anything at the small door. Therefore, I think these are groundless attempts to create a problem where there is no problem and that, above all, this is a desire to draw attention in a cheap demagogue way and to create a problem in those segments, in which there are no problems. So I absolutely believe that we share the same understanding of all of the SRS, all of the ruling majority, that KIM are constituent, inalienable parts of the Republic of Serbia, that it is a unit of autonomy, just like the province of Vojvodina and there is no need to convince ourselves of the Youth Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57666	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Mrs Dimitrijevic? The time of the parliamentary group has been spent. You have three minutes left as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57667	I just want to point out once again that Article 25, however technical it is, is written in one, and Article 26 is in the plural. If we are going to talk about this, we are well aware of what this current government is up for, but this is how the amendment to Article 1 has been accepted. The amendment to Article 1 will define and correct Article 1 but will remain this way in the law, and Article 25, written in one and Article 26, written in plural. Well, we'll either do this or we'll do this. We can't have one member like this, another member like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57668	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57669	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This morning, on the Legislative Committee, we also consulted the Constitution on how the Constitution applies, for example, the issue of unity, or plural in this particular case, and the Constitution itself, I must say, in some places applies unity, and in some places it applies plural. What, certainly, given this debate, the ministry intends to do this is that within the framework of the legal and technical editorial and the title, in addition to having the needs of the local self-government unit, as you have rightly observed and what is consistent application of the single, we will have the same title in the title for the unit, or the achievement of youth interests in the youth sector in the local self-government unit, and in this way we will have one termological consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57670	Thank you. Members of the 25th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Here you go, Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57671	Since colleagues before me have explained the essence of the SRS's stance to regulate the number of autonomous provinces written in the Republic of Serbia with the amendment, I will only connect and support previous views. The SRS parliamentary group is under the impression that where it is less important, such as in the light of this law, e.g. There is always the use of plural when it comes to the AP of the Republic of Serbia, but that is why in the regulations controlled by the EU and its representatives in the Republic of Serbia, the AP is always mentioned in one. It was said today in the debate that the subject of KIM should not be mixed in in the youth law. Then there's something not clear to me here. Don't the kim live on? Didn't the bill promoter mean that when he wrote the law, or do you think that it doesn't matter to young people in Serbia that Serbia had only one minute to defend its heritage with KIM in UNESCO, that perhaps some young people from France, Switzerland, Sweden tried to rename four Serbian cultural goods, such as the monastery of the Pećka Patriarchy, Decani, Gracanica or the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška to Kosovo's cultural goods? Doesn't it seem to you that by silently eradicating a Serbian province from the bill, you might unwittingly support those who wish to erase every trace of Serbian eternal existence in Kosovo? Since we have heard more times than the ruling majority's representatives today that this law will not change the position of young people in Serbia and that it is necessary to change the government's policy, which also leads young people and the state to the sun, I would only look back on one of the biggest problems of youth, which is employment. I don't believe this law will contribute to solving this burning problem at all with its vague and superficial provisions. The data at the end of April this year say the unemployment rate is 22.2%, which is 19.2% compared to the end of October last year. Today, almost all of us here, otherwise the former youngsters with the memory of a time when we were able to finish colleges free and then get a job, once and for all, solve the existential problem, of course social, pension and all, in factories, schools, and then get married, we get married, we get married, we start families and things like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57672	Time. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57673	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I again underline that there is a real problem where there is no problem. The relation of a political party to young people is measured not only through the law passed and voted for the law to be passed, I will just remind myself of the happy times that young people used to live in this country. Today, at the invitation of Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, hundreds of young people were watching the Assembly sessions and either in this home, respected, and not so long ago, the leader of a party with a hekler in his hands waited for the students when they came to protest and hekler waved towards them, along with a series of insults and a series of swearings addressed these same young people, the same one who held the hekler in his hands made clear what he thought about KIM when he had the chance to defend KIM, he said – if any NATO boots set foot on KIM, I will forever withdraw from politics, along with his party friends and colleagues. Then he cried bitterly in one night in this room and said -- well, NATO marched with 60,000 pairs of boots on KIM, and I have to pull out of politics, and then everybody sat down and cried bitterly and said -- oh, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Fortunately, there is this government of the Republic of Serbia that saves what was done in 1999, so it does everything in its power to still have plural when we talk about the AP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57674	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57675	In Article 26, point 3., we have submitted an amendment – after the words "second" are added, "Only young people under 30 can work in the Youth Office". We have also received an explanation from the Government, which it says - the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. I would say that this is about special discrimination, that it is in line with both the strategy and the youth law, and in that context, you had to accept this amendment. As you can see, the DSS is now in favour of the rights of young people and in this way, by wanting to work in these offices for young people just up to 30 years old. It is a good opportunity to accept this amendment, Madam Minister, because that way you too will help young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57676	The Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57677	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We wouldn't mind if someone at the age of 31, could be 31 and a half, working with young people, but by one, it's in the jurisdiction of local self-government in the first place, and the reason why we didn't accept this is precisely what would be contrary to one law that the government passed, which is the Law of Discrimination, and we're not in a position to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57678	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57679	Thank you, Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for bringing this debate to an end on amendments. There have also been very high quality amendments and quality discussions and everything else, if this talk is excluded in some MPs, it has made a good impression on those who are interested. It's obvious that this is about completely different concepts, and according to these differences in concepts, and in accordance with the consistency that we've already shown in the previous members, what we've asked the Ministry now we've also wanted to ask local self-government. In Article 26, paragraph 3, we deleted one part of the text, but we added a new position that reads – the competent authority of local self-government on its Internet presentation publicly publishes information on proposed programmes and projects for financing, approved programmes and projects and the implementation of approved programmes and projects. I'm sorry that I'm not the author of what Mr Dimitrijevic said earlier, that the public is the strongest anti-corruption disinfectant, because it's very good and that's what we've tried to get through this amendment. We think that no one will mind that there is a public in the work, because we are actually as a state, if we talk about some European standards behind which some are being protected and some do not want to say they are high European standards, they are universal standards and the public is one of those standards, and I think that this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57680	Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57681	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I fully agree with you. Of course, it was one of the elements in the public debate. We wanted to make sure that we and local self-government were doing it as transparently as possible. However, in the procedure, the competent ministry drew attention to the fact that it was in the jurisdiction of local self-government and that it was regulated by other laws, so we were not in a position to put this on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57682	The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57683	My question for the end, Madam Minister, on behalf of the SRS – when do you expect the effects of this law? When will young people in Serbia feel the first effects of applying this law and what will you epochally bring through sublegal acts, so it takes you half a year to adopt these acts? My amendment and amendment of counterpart Sarovic are basically identical and rely on each other. It takes you six months to make, if not more, five sublegal acts. As it says in these documents, these are basically application forms, or possibly reports, or something like that. Therefore, there is an essential indication of the relationship and how much this means to you. I ask you, I do not have much time, unfortunately – look at this, for the application of this law it is not necessary until 2011 to provide additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's not necessary at all, because it won't apply in 2011. I don't know if you've provided funds or not, but this law will not apply until next year. That's what this law says. We are bringing you into normative agreement and asking you to start applying this law in this year, so that young people, since you are very concerned about them, will feel the effects on the one hand, and on the other hand, the continuation of this sentence says – the funds in 2012 and 2013 will be provided according to the receipts and fiscal possibilities of the budget. That's the certainty of this law. We all know very well what fiscal opportunities next year will be, considering this year we are in. Therefore, as Mladjan Dinkic is not interested in essential local self-government, this ministry of yours, position and concern for young people is also of no interest. You recognized the chance to promote an idea in the context of an election campaign in two days. The whole story of this law can come down to these two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57684	Minister Markovic-Samardzic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57685	Thank you. Like many other laws, this law goes into effect eight days after its publication in the Official Messenger. The moment of publication in the official messenger is off the grid, my own at the moment. The reason why instead of three months like you suggested, we left a six-month deadline is actually making sublaws. This law provides for two sublaws that we already have in the draft, but we cannot be sure which dynamics and other participants, since we plan to include, as we have always included, other participants in the production of documents produced by the ministry. We will include people outside the ministry, young people and those who were otherwise actors in the development of a strategy for youth and youth laws. Then, we cannot fully predict the dynamics that will prevail in other bodies, since we will consult other government bodies when they produce sublegal acts. We expect it to be far before, but we've left a space of six months since it's some kind of standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-01-0.u57686	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I would like to thank Mrs. Minister and her associates sincerely for their extraordinary cooperation. I thank you, too, honourable Members of the people. We'll continue our work Monday, July 4th at 10.00 hours.
