ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62170	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 74 MPs, which is obviously not responding to the truth, so I ask you to establish a quorum. I figure there's 85 of us, which means there's working conditions. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zeljko Tomic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, I have also called for the meetings of Zoran Petrovic, Assistant Minister for Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government and Gordana Stanic, Head of the Department of Administrative Inspection at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government. We continue our work and move on to a general search of the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Administrative Inspection. You've received a bill from the government. Report of the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee was received. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belong one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group of the SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the MP groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Djuro Peric, MP of the PUPS; MP Jovan Palalic, MP of the DSS, MP Gordana Pop – Lazic, MP of the SRS, MP of Judita Popovic, MP of the LDP, MP of Srdjan Spasojevic, MP of the NS. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposer's representative, Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62171	I thank you, dear presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so today is the agenda, the draft law on administrative inspection, you've received a bill of law, you've been given an explanation, and in the shortest lines for the public to repeat that part of the reasoning, in short, what is already in your possession. So, unfortunately, there is no special law governing the administrative inspection, there was a long time ago 1975 was passed, 36 years ago, but it stopped valid in 1992. The existing laws on state administration, the Law on State Servants, are the basis of the functioning of Serbia's modern state administration, and it provides for the adoption of a special law to regulate this area. However, it is not only normative obligations that require the adoption of a special law on administrative inspection. Harmonising the overall legal system with the Constitution and new social needs, as well as adapting to contemporary experiences and solutions, has led to the expansion of the jurisdiction of the Administrative Inspectorate to new social areas and legal relations. The supervision of the Administrative Inspectorate is thus determined by a series of specific laws, which is its jurisdiction over new content and subject matter. In addition to the standard competences of the Administrative Inspection, the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Employees, and the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities, the Law on the Sealing of State and Other Authorities, the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, new competences have been established by the Law on Parent Books, the Law on Political Parties, the Law on Associations, the Act on Access, the free access to information on public importance, as well as the Law on the Single Election List, the Law on the Prevention of Labour Abuse and the Law on Volunteering. Also, there are certain competences of the Administrative Inspectorate are laid down in around twenty specific laws and other regulations that apply the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in their work. Given the significant expansion of the jurisdiction of inspection supervision in the Republic of Serbia, we have made an effort to give you an approximate number of entities that we should control, and I am saying this because afterwards I will tell you the number of administrative inspectors who are doing all this work. So we've reached the number of 28 thousand control subjects, or control objects, of the entities the surveillance applies to. Thousands of state administration bodies, courts, prosecutors, defences, local self-government units, criminal sanctions institutions, social labour centres, bodies that exercise public authority in a work related to entrusted affairs. Eleven thousand public authorities subject to the Law on free access to information of public importance. Fifteen thousand at this time, 15 thousand associations applying the Law on Associations, 81 political parties, and then in all units of local self-government applying the Law on the Single Election List, the Law on Parent Books, the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Labour Act in State Authorities, etc. In the framework of its law of jurisdiction, the administrative inspection constitutes a specific type of inspection, as the control facilities are the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies, as well as entities which exercise public authority unlike other inspections where the inspection is subject to the activity of the undertaking and other organisations. These facts, in particular the increase in the volume and type of business, the increase in the number of national entities and the lack of regulation of certain issues of importance for the work of the Administrative Inspectorate, require fundamental changes and the adoption of the law on administrative inspection, and therefore we are before you today. In particular, the proposed law guarantees independence in the work of the Administrative Inspectorate. It is thus prescribed that administrative inspectors are independent in the work within the limits of the powers laid down by law and are personally responsible for their work. No one shall make use of the official position or, in any other way, prevent or interfere with the administrative inspector in carrying out inspection controls and taking measures and actions to which he is authorised. In particular, it sought to ensure the position of the supervised entity in an inspection procedure that would enable it to effectively protect its interests and rights on the one hand, and on the other hand to actively contribute to the achievement of the control objective. In order to ensure the conditions for the effective and legal enforcement of the laws of established competences of the Administrative Inspectorate, it is envisaged to amend the organisational facility in which these operations will be carried out in the future. Instead of the administrative inspection operations being a sector within the Ministry of State Administration Affairs, as is now proposed the education of the managing authority within the Ministry of State Administration Affairs, i.e. the specific Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, that is, the Administrative Inspectorate. That solution shall be fully in accordance with Article 28(2). The State Administration Act under which the Authority is educated for executive or inspection and related professional affairs, if their nature and scope require such greater independence than that of the sector in the ministry. The proposed law sets out the competences, positions and powers in a comprehensive manner, as well as other issues which provide legal and effective implementation of the functions of administrative inspection. I have remained a part of the debt relating to the number of civil servants doing administrative inspection at this point. So, for all of this I've been talking about, for these 28 thousand entities that are being controlled by law enforcement, the whole job is being done by only 18 inspectors at the Ministry of State and local self-government. So I think it's necessary to educate the inspectorate. This is necessary for reasons of legality, for the sake of efficiency, for the exercise of supervision in all these state bodies and other bodies and organisations which exercise public authority. It is necessary to form an administrative inspectorate and will be revived after the formation of the new government. In this way, we give a chance to a future ministry and to a future government, whichever it may be, that it is far more effective to conduct surveillance in all these 28 thousand for now-numbered entities or inspection surveillance facilities. So I ask you to accept this law. I expect we'll fix it through the amendments to everything we agree on that needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62172	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62173	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think this is a very important law that we are discussing today, and which should be passed in view of the fact that lately there has been a lot of criticism on us as a legislator, that we are passing a lot of laws, but that the issue of implementing these laws is a lot of discussion and that you are not getting the results you want. I think the formation of these new authorities at the Ministry of State Administration about the Administration's inspection will help to help, if not in general, because they are certainly not the only ones who can provide it, but they will in many ways need to improve the overall situation in the realisation of these laws, as foreseen by this law. Mr. Minister said it was a law that more comprehensively addressed the organisation, jurisdiction, authority or mode of work, passed only 35-36 years ago. True, in the meantime, many other laws have been passed, and this is a rare law that should sublime everything that is now in many of the laws that we have and which have been passed, and in particular I must stress that the Law on State Administration, the Law on Civil Servants, even directly in Article 18, regulated the issue of the obligation to pass such a law and he listed what should be done. Mr. Minister spoke of this being not only the need for our internal legislation and everything that arises from what needs to be supervised, but also the harmonisation of this piece of legislation with European legislation, so that is one significant moment in all of this. I'd like to refer to one of the details of this law and that's the issue of the organization. Mr. Minister said that there is now a change in certain relations, organisational and then humane nature, and that instead of a sector within the Ministry of State Administration, this law should form a major inspectorate and would be managed by the Chief Inspectorate, who, according to the law, has a lot of important powers both in terms of the inspectorate itself and in relation to his responsibilities regarding the resolution of complaints from these regional and lower bodies in the public administration. It is logical that it is likely to result in an increase in the number of employees. Mr. Minister said how many employees there are now in these administrative inspection affairs, however, I personally think, if we wanted to achieve what I said at the beginning, that it would probably also require some increase in the number of employees in this chief inspectorate team before I see that this relationship with the conditions to be that administrative inspector, and especially for the chief inspector, because there is a lot of these elements being sought, both about his expertise and about the experience and years of internships he must have. In addition, this chief inspector should also bring me the annual work programme by December of each year, but since the powers are very broad and very significant I think that this new body, this chief inspectorate who will be at the Ministry of State Administration, would have to pay particular attention that he would actually carry out his supervision and express the measures provided for by this law because if he were to do so and if that entire inspectorate were to do so in the future, then I think that efficiency in the work would be much greater and that the purpose and purpose of all this changes would then be achieved. Our PUPS parliamentary group accepts this law and will vote for it when the day of the vote comes, but I would also ask that when the law is passed that we have in mind what the minister said will practically relive all of this in a new period of time when a new government comes and I think it is a good thing that this government, whatever it is, allows it to now have one of these levers in the exercise of power, because this is a very important thing if it was done properly and how it is foreseen in the whole of our legal system, because this is a really significant link because it is spreading even to work on the supervision and of all the state authorities, not just the authorities of the administration. Something Mr. Minister was talking about, but I think it will take a little more detail to say what this is all about and that it will probably need a lot of sublegal acts that will allow it to happen now. I thank you for the attention you've had. We will support this law when it comes to voting on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62174	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. And Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic answered. But it doesn't matter? Here you go, Mr. Palaly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62175	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have suggested one extremely bad day. You have proposed a law that is completely inappropriate and the moment and the obligations that the state has towards both citizens and of course, according to what we have adopted here, when it comes to the laws in the field of state administration. This is one law that will be produced from new costs, this is a law that does not solve comprehensive inspection and instead of going to the National Assembly with a law that would solve inspections in general, and then dealing with individual issues of supervision in various social areas, you are bringing here a law that, through discussion, will produce a number of problems and will certainly open new costs and give opportunities and ideas to other ministers to create inspectorates in their ministries and thus come into a situation to hire new people and extend their competences. Mr. Minister, you delivered this law to us in the National Assembly on February 25th, two weeks before the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the amendments to the Ministry Act, you did not provide for two inspectorates, and now, in addition to the Ministry Act, you are proposing the formation of a new inspectorate. Why didn't you withdraw the law on administrative inspection that you let go of in the procedure? Well then if you wanted to form a new inspectorate, it could have been done through amendments to the Ministry Act. You have, in the end, defended the amendments to the Ministry Act and you have kept silent before the National Assembly the fact that another inspectorate will be formed besides the one that exists in the field of defence, labour and social policy. The formation of an administrative inspectorate will generate new costs and new employment. Do we now need, in a situation where the rebalancing is adopted, when it comes to reducing the state administration, new employment? What is the basic motive for now passing the law on administrative inspection? I'm sure one of the reasons is to hire new people. We'll get into that situation. Mr. Minister, the very solutions you have provided for in this law will produce a number of new problems and new costs. The administrative inspectorate, as you predicted, should have a number of regional units, so new costs. What's the point of that? How will these people be hired? I'm sure they won't according to the criteria as they've been up until now. You have here passed to the National Assembly the Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the Republic institutions, where a number can be determined which can work in the Republic authorities and has been ordered by the Republic authorities to reduce the number of employees, and you are introducing this law the possibility of new employment at the end of the term of office of your Government. What is the motive, Mr. Minister, besides for party personnel to be re-employed beyond all criteria? When it comes to the authority of administrative inspection, it is very interesting, Mr. Minister, that it spread, as you said, to a number of these areas, but let's say, it leaves out the province of Vojvodina. You will control local self-government, courts, president of the Republic, the National Assembly, but you must not touch the province of Vojvodina. That's the problem here. In addition, you want to control local self-government, employees and employment relations in local self-government. Where's the law on employees of local self-government, what was your ministry's obligation to bring? It's not there. Space for control is also expanding when it comes to information of public importance. Why wouldn't a trustee do that? He already has in one part of his inspection work. Why didn't you let him do inspection in this area? It could have been. Where's the supervision of national minority regulations, Mr. Minister? Your ministry has now received another piece, which concerns national minorities. You left that out. Who oversees the application of the rules in the area of national minorities, administrative oversight, the work of national councils, all that regarding the application of the rules in relation to national minorities? It's not here. In that sense, our parliamentary group has submitted an amendment. What's also interesting is the enormous powers you give to the Chief Inspector General. It is said here that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will appoint him on your proposal. Why hasn't it been called here, as for all civil servants, a contest, so that on the basis of the contest, he tries to remove the party's influence on the choice of such an important official, such as the Chief Inspector, but will be appointed by the Government for five years, that he hangs the future mandate? How do you rule out the possibility of party membership here? It's only possible by competition. Let me remind you, the Civil Service Act has prescribed that all ministerial assistants are elected by competition. How many ministries is this job done? What about the depoliticization we talked about here? This job isn't done and nothing guarantees that the new Chief Inspector won't be a party chamber, we're even convinced he will be. When it comes to the jurisdiction of the chief administrative inspector who will be the head of the famous administrative inspectorate, he will also have the opportunity to resolve complaints. You can imagine a national authority that has certainly come to the possibility of perhaps unfairly giving him a measure of solution by a certain administrative inspector, he complains to the chief administrative inspector. Within the same system is resolved by appeal. Why was the ministry or government not resolved by appeal, but the chief inspector would undo the solution of his own man whom he had appointed? It's amazing how you guys open up an opportunity here for all kinds of expenses. Now the inspectors will have their suits and their uniforms. How much is that going to cost, Mr. Minister? Is that necessary at this time in Serbia? Now, as it was for the municipal police, each city will have a different color, a different shape, now there will be competitions here. Hundreds of new administrative inspectors will now wear new suits, start design competitions, and pay for it. It's amazing what's been inserted into the new law here. When it comes to the issue of the record, the very important authority and the very important consequences it produces, you've given it quite tiresomely here. The minutes do not contain all that is necessary, in our opinion, that, tomorrow or during the entire procedure, the supervisory authority may object in the event of inability or disagreement with what makes the administrative inspector. Let me remind you, the administrative inspector will now be able to enter the National Assembly, as president of the Republic, into local self-government. It's gonna be like that movie "Masters, Masters," when he was there all day and he was writing something, asking questions. This will look like your law. Be careful what authority you give to the Chief Inspector General. When he sees or learns that the supervisory authority does not want to operate according to his solution, he personally, watch out for the chief inspector appointed by the government, a civil servant, he will personally address various institutions and appeal to them to apply them. So, you've given the opportunity for the Chief Administrative Inspector to address directly to the President of the Republic or here to the President of the National Assembly. Well, that's absolutely unacceptable. The person elected by the government on your proposal can do that. Another thing, Mr. Minister, is a very dangerous thing, in which way do you extend the jurisdiction of the Administrative Inspectorate? Special procedures, special administrative procedures. Do you know what all special administrative procedures are? Well, let's just say, the police are all almost special administrative procedures. This means that now the chief administrative inspector in the issue of passports, ID cards, he will control and not the ministry. You ministers, not Minister Dacic. Absolutely, unacceptable. Simply, the way you put things here will lead to one absurdity in application and certainly to great problems. At the end of the line, the biggest problem will be politicizing, you'll hire new people, you'll hire past all personnel. That's what your EU friends said about this new famous report they filed. When it comes to this report, Mr. Minister, I have to ask you here as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government – how many Republic of Serbia has autonomous provinces under the Constitution and how many municipalities and cities under the Law on Territorial Organization, Mr. Minister? A European Commission report, Mr Minister, says the Republic of Serbia has an autonomous province. Mr. Minister, it says that Serbia has 122 municipalities, in the law that you have defended here, on the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia has 150 municipalities. There are said to be 23 cities and the city of Belgrade, and here it is said to be 22 cities. Your EU has left out of the status of the Republic of Serbia all municipalities in KIM and the city of Pristina in the report. Therefore, Mr. Minister, the EU has recognised KIM's independence. I'd like to hear what you think about what they wrote. Has anyone in the RS Government objected to this fact? You all praised this report, praised that it was a great success, and people wrote to you not to recognise our territorial integrity and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask, Mr. Minister, to say whether you agree as the minister of local self-government, with what it says here, that Serbia has 122 municipalities, with no 28 municipalities in KIM and that there are 23 cities and that there is only one autonomous province, as it is said here, Vojvodina. This means, Mr. Minister, that for the EU, these people today in the Zubi Potok are not part of the Republic of Serbia. Are they part of the Republic of Serbia for you? Those for Eulex are not part of the Republic of Serbia. These are dangerous things, Mr. Minister. Of course, everything they told you in this report concerning the state of the state of government, and we also told you, that it is employed by party membership, that a strategy of state administration reform is not implemented, that still the directors of public enterprises and ministers influence the choice beyond the competition and set up party personnel. They all told you that as well as we told you. What is done when it comes to the depolitisation of the state administration and how will you prevent it from using one of these laws that you now propose to us here, by the Law of Administrative Inspection? An administrative inspection that will control everything and everything in this country. You'll see after this, Mr. Minister, when the Minister of Health comes, the Minister of Environment to form their administrative inspectorates, how many serious competencies have inspections in the domain, say, health? Why don't Minister Stankovic form the Administrative Inspectorate now and hire a hundred more people? Who's stopping him from doing this? No one's stopping him. You opened Pandora's Box with this, Mr. Minister. You're making new costs in a situation where the state doesn't have the money to hire new people without any criteria. And, at the very least, let's hear why is this law, which was proposed before the government was reconstructed, not withdrawn? You're forming an administrative inspectorate outside the Ministry Act. One extremely bad law, one law that is not required at this time. Bring the law, the general law on inspection supervision, and then let certain needs of the ministries be defined by special laws, and in the extreme line, and the law on administrative inspection in the domain of their specificities, rather than giving administrative inspection, in fact, takes over the entire system of supervision in the state administration. It wasn't a motive written in the Law of the State Administration. This was about a law that would define inspection supervision, not just administrative inspection. And it was this obligation of yours. Above all, Mr Minister, in the end, our parliamentary group will not vote for this law, tell us how many municipalities there are in the Republic of Serbia and how many republics of Serbia have autonomous provinces and has anyone objected to this report by the European Commission, this unacceptable and shameful report that KIM municipalities, cities and territories in this report are not treated as part of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62176	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62177	Mr. Palalic, you've asked so many questions, how much energy you emit, I still have to answer some of that. First, I wouldn't have passed the law on that inspection, if the DSS hadn't written it in the State Administration Act, in Article 45, where it says - administrative inspection is governed by a special law. If Mr. Lonchar hadn't written it, I wouldn't have brought it. These people wouldn't be sitting next to me if the DSS hadn't appointed them assistant ministers at the time she was in power. So much for politicizing. I mean, just don't, just take a little steps when you're criticizing. I'm sorry, until people behave a little bit more politely here, I really can't talk like this. So it's about what the law is passed on, and why no general inspection law is passed. Because your party has imposed this obligation, and by respecting the institutions of the system, the continuity of the state, I fulfill that obligation. Now you should ask your previous minister why he did it. Otherwise, let me tell you, he did a good job of this. He did this well. And I'm afraid that you, Mr. Palalic, do not distinguish administrative inspection as a completely special type of inspection control affecting all authorities of the state administration, all but public authority. In regulations that are common to all of them and have nothing to do with internal control carried out under their jurisdiction, which are now conducting various inspectorates and various ministries and authorities of the state administration, under their laws of prescribed authority. It's just that there's one really, really big, really important difference about these two types of surveillance. Therefore, this supervision, administrative supervision primarily refers to what is common to all bodies in public authority. Well, for example, the implementation of the Law on General Administrative Procedure, namely efficiency, in law enforcement in case of case-solving. Working relationships, that's something that's unique to everything. And secondly, which is special to the laws of this inspection, whether because of me or not, I don't know what the reason, has come in the last few years, that everyone wanted us to be the ones to oversee the application of their laws. Well, the Information Access Act, the free access to information, at the request of the trustees, has been transferred to us, although you know it was in culture. And while he was in culture, there were zero applications, and we have nearly 200 violations. Now, are we going to obey the laws or are we not going to obey the laws? We cannot, with 16 inspectors and with inspectors as a sector within the Ministry, expect independence and efficiency. How are 28 thousand subjects going to be controlled? How can we not change the law when there is no one in our legal system to control what stands in Presevo the unbroken Serbian flag? It's day and night, and I never came to Preshevo without being insulted, as if on purpose when I come, they're breaking the flag and they're tearing it apart, because there's no law that can regulate it. Now I'm making a law to regulate it. As soon as this law is passed, we'll be able to regulate that kind of thing. It's not my fault we've got so many gaps in the legal system, and then it bothers you when someone has a legislative initiative and they're trying to solve it. It takes more order and more legality. Now you've said how many people are placed in position. How do we even control working relationships? I'm telling you, we have years of illegality in various state bodies. People are hired by contracts. This was particularly expressed in 1999 in the ministries. I don't know what the problem is here. Is that a problem? I don't know what this is about. So that's what this is about. So we simply want to create a mechanism to introduce more order into the work of the State Administration, more order. We have employment on a work contract, and business contracts are written for in the department's work. 18 inspectors can't cover all of Serbia. You asked how many units of local self-government are there? Serbia's local self-government unit has 174, 150 municipalities, 24 cities. They're local self-government units. Look only, 174 units of local self-government make up movements of legality in work. In working relationships, in home books, in the polling list, in free access to information with 18 people, and then we say, no laws are implemented. So, no administrative inspectorate. You're telling me now, so I don't know who he is now, I'm not the Minister of Inspectorate. I mean, when the Resort Minister comes, and he forms an inspectorate, you ask him, Mr. Minister, what will the inspectorate do to you? How do you ask me about that? You didn't even ask me when we were a coalition for it. No one asked me alive then, and he doesn't ask me anything now. I've got my own ministry that I'm in charge of, which I'd like to say why someone formed an inspectorate. But for surveillance inspections generally under the law adopted by the DSS it is explicitly written that inspectorates are formed for inspection and executive tasks. The DSS wrote again. Now you resent me for enforcing that law. Vojvodina, you know well how the Duke's question has been resolved. There is the Statute of the Vojvodina and there is a Law on the Transfer of Jurisdiction. You're asking me questions that you yourself know the answer to. I cannot now write a law contrary to the Law of Transfer of Jurisdiction and the Statute of Vojvodina. So, the work relations and positions of the authorities in the AP Vojvodina are arranged by a rural decision, and that lasts, if I'm not mistaken, since 2001. It's arranged by the province's decision and I don't know what's controversial about it. So work relations are arranged by the province's decision, and even the pay system is different than we do in the Republic's organs. You're talking to me about some party influence, new people's employment, and I'm sitting here with the people your minister put in place and your Prime Minister. You're talking to me about party influence. I don't know how you can. I don't get it. So you respect me for making the law that you voted for should be passed, honoring my party influence, and sitting down for the people you put in place. I didn't put any of them in position. I came, Mr. Loncar met me, he says – these are the assistant ministers, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica put them to the vote and chose them. Okay, people work, professionals, what kind of relationships I have, and I don't know if they belong to strangers, or who they are, or what they are, or what I'm interested in. It's important to me whether people work or don't work. Then you're twisting things a little bit. You say - now the Chief Inspector will address the President of the Republic. Well, Mr. Palalic, he's not talking to the President of the Republic, he's addressing the professional service. He doesn't control the acts of the President of the Republic, for God's sake, or the Prime Minister. He is in rank identical to the rank of top civil servants, nine years of staff of civil servants. Thus, he addresses those who are the greatest civil servants of professional services, or who are head of professional services in individual bodies. It's the secretaries in the ministries, in the National Assembly, it's the Secretary of the Assembly. I'm talking to them. Secondly, let me tell you, Mr. Palalic, your whole exposure sounds like the administrative inspection is coming today. Everything you criticized by the Administrative Inspectorate, today there is still today working and today imposing measures. It's being resolved today, except as minister, I'm handling the appeal as a representative of the ministry, but the inspectors are still doing all this, making records, all of this stuff that you've been talking about, and the inspectors are doing today. All of this you're criticizing as some terrible thing, and people are doing it today, it's just that the problem is that they're indisputable from any future minister, as they can be dependent on me. So the problem is they have neither capacity nor independence, which we want to give them now. So we can't ask the information trustee to have an execution. Since we took over the administrative inspection, the information trustee has executed its solutions over 90%, 96-97%, since we took over. The entire administrative inspection of the ministry has come down to the work of speeding to fulfil the obligations arising from the Free Access Information Act. Now we are all happy to be executed, which Mr. Sabic has the execution of ninety-seven percent, which in the European frameworks few can boast of such a trustee for information of public importance. Who does that? Don't do that cheap demagogy, whether it's 18 or 36, in the Administrative Inspectorate it should be 36 minimum. There should be more, to force order into our state organs, to bring in order all of us, and order and law to come in. Let's behave a little bit the way civilised society should behave. It has nothing to do with this or that government, it's like us, as a political elite, that's what municipalities look like to us no matter who's in power. Let me tell you again, I'm not doing anything else, I'm trying to strengthen that administrative inspection to make it a little bit more orderly. If you think it's going to hurt the state's employment budget of 20 people, who will be employed in competition, Mr. Palalic, so no one will answer. Here, believe me, we've been looking for these four years, as long as I'm a minister, and for five years I've been a minister in these two governments, for these five years in the Administrative Inspectorate, we've had a contest, I think two total jobs. No, Mr. Palalic. Uncompetitive on the labour market. Three or four competitions, and only two eventually got a job. No, uncompetitive on the labour market. The conditions for administrative inspection are not simple. Not the one who has the knowledge to come to the state administration, because with our demagogy, we've brought this whole state administration story down to what we've brought it down to. Would you work, to come with your knowledge and experience, for 40,000 dinars, a serious job? At the ministry whose head I'm on is on time for work and leaving on time. It's a serious ministry, it was serious during Zoran Loncar and I inherited it from Zoran Loncar, and he inherited it from Rodoljub Sabic. Serious people, a serious ministry, with a large number of civil servants actually pulling their roots back in the 1990s when they were civil servants. Most importantly, they have an institutional memory, they have this attitude towards work. No, Mr. Palalic, we're not competitive on the labour market. The state administration shows up with a competition and you can't win. When the crisis is over, and what little is worth in the state administration will run off to private firms. It's a serious problem, but it can't be because we have this problem of demagogy all the time, because nobody here has the guts to say it. When it comes to the number of civil servants, it is said that there are 200 thousand, and in the authorities of the state administration there are 24 thousand, at this point close to 25,000 employees. In general, over half a million people work in the public sector, and we all assume it's the state administration. It's not the state administration, it's 24 grand. Then we say - it has grown since 2000, so far I don't know how many thousands, and we forget that in 2000, the Republic Administration was without the Customs Administration, without the federal police, without a series of institutions that were on the federal level, the Institute of Metals, the Standardisation Office, etc. It's just that it's so incorrect to manipulate that data and it's going to lead us and it's going to lead us slowly, but surely, Mr. Palalic, to a very difficult situation. It'll bother us that our laws are bad when they come to the congregation. Well, there's no one to write them, Mr. Palalic. No experts, no frames. Who can? He's gone. There are few who remain in the state administration. Fortunately, we now have high-paying assistants and assistants, but we don't have to renew the staff. There are no young people who are willing to come here and do their whole life's work, because a civil servant is worth 20 years in the state administration. It's not worth a civil servant who comes in for two years and leaves, it's not a quality. A civil servant needs to work for 20 years to give his quality, because he has institutional memory, has experience, knowledge and such needs, professionals. We have nothing to attract them to. Now I've expanded the story generally to the state administration of Serbia, but I'm talking about the demagogy that we're all prone to, so here in this discussion we've been prone to, and we say, what in this difficult situation is the increase in the number of administrative inspectors? The future minister, who will be after this term, will benefit greatly from this, will benefit the state, as it will be able to introduce a little more order, and that order will save millions. So that's what saves money. Javaschluk takes money. We don't need a ride to save money. Do you know what the municipalities where some of the opposition, who shout so much, looked like? There can't be an end to the end of employment. You can't find legal employment. Ninety percent is illegal employment. There's no one. Take measures so that these measures are implemented, so it takes time, and you with 18 people want to put order into Serbia, and like all of us, we don't know what we are. We all know what it's been like and how it's been done today, what we look like as politicians, what our authorities look like to the city, the community. This state administration is still the best, to be honest, it's the best quality. State administration by frame, quality is the best we have. Our state administration is compatible with Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia's most respected. The other day I organized a conference, everyone came, we signed a regional declaration, the Vice President of the European Commission came. We're not so bad at all in the state administration system. We're talking about our state administration the worst. In the Council of Europe, in the European Commission, in the region, our state administration is respected. We have since the 2005 reform, which has been carried out and to which I am calling and in good light I say, which the DSS did then, this reform has set good grounds for our state administration, we are truly appreciated. Remember, Belgrade was the centre of state administration, the former, old Yugoslavia. So there's one tradition, there's one quality that exists in Belgrade. It's true, less and less, because I'm saying, there's no delay in personnel, and the personnel are not nagging because there's nothing to hire them to attract them, and we can't attract them with anything because we're so prone to demagogue that at one point the idea of having civil servants narrow down to the elements of the Labour Law, which I don't think is anywhere in the world. There is nowhere in the world, because there is a fundamentally different position and interest and function of one who does public interest and one who works in a private company. We're completely different. She's theoretically separated, even practically, and we've come to this point that a few years ago she was a little short on the media, the media, the media, the media, the desire to be popular. Then we'd complain that we had bad laws, that we had an inefficient administration, we'd complain about 1,200,000 things. The state cannot function if the spine of the state - the state administration is bad. We keep working on our state administration, i.e. We politicians can't turn the page and go to strengthen the drone state administration, afraid of what the public will say. Publicly speaking, there's no luck until the state administration is strong. The state administration will be strong and quality when the conditions of work in the state administration are the following: depoliticalisation, professionalisation and conditions that can bring people in, and conditions are pay and position, so that they cannot be fired by anyone who arrives, as in a private company. And today there is an anecdote in the government, even ten years ago, one minister had an idea, he says "reforming the state administration is when I can fire everything and hire everyone". A man used to say that at the government. These are different experiences of the state administration. I think it should be like this, so I proposed this law, I didn't suggest it by accident. Your minister has made a commitment under this law to the law that he's been doing and he's done one smart thing. Don't impute me to politicization, I'm telling you that again, because you have no right to do that. If you have objections to the law itself, of course, you are the opposition and you should have objections, but I think your discussion was more political and a little less related to the content of this law, so I had a need to answer. In the end, I asked for an exact number, unfortunately, from August. You said, "How many people are placed in position?" During the government of Vojislav Kostunica, in which I was with you, we had 46 officers who were placed in competition. Since I've asked to change the laws here, so ministers can no longer decide about competitions, but to compete with automation, I suggested, it's my idea, it's being implemented. We have 193 in August set up for a contest. That's four times what we did from 2005 to August. That number couldn't be raised with 40 or something. In the course of this year, since I changed the law, it's been 193. I really believe it's time for the competition to be set up. There's no dilemma. I really believe that the state administration needs to look for ministerial assistants, not bring them aside as friends, colleagues, etc. That's the point. I'm telling you again, Mr. Palalic, we're going to be unable to enrich the state administration with our situation and the relationship we now have as a society towards the state administration. Believe me, it's going to go hard. A young and capable man will not come to 31,000 or 32,000 salaries and live in Belgrade. The 31,000-32,000 salary in Belgrade may be good now in times of crisis. The crisis will be over in a year, two, three, one day it has to go through a crisis. People know two languages, they're good lawyers, informers, about them, and I'm not talking about them, they can't pay less than a thousand euros to get in these big information houses. How can the state administration be competitive and we need quality? That's a bit of a broader subject. Our state administration is still very good, we have respect for the region, we have respect for the Council of Europe, we have respect even for the European Commission. I've been trying for these five years to keep her safe and improve her, and I think I've done it. This is one law that will further strengthen it. This law should be passed, and the future minister, whoever he is, will be able to impose much more order and much more savings in the country than he is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62178	I thank Mr. Minister for explaining in detail the need for the continuity of good ideas. Gentlemen, I would like to ask that we take care of the dignity of the Assembly and not to throw in inappropriate comments to speakers at all, of course, the Minister. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Palalic. It's only a detailed answer to all your questions. I give my word to MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62179	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, listening to all this simply, I think somewhere in the middle is true. I can't help but look back at what is, after all, an integral part of this discussion – whether someone has 49 people admitted to the competition or now has 190, is also the difference in time. The civil servants law was passed in 2004, so the government had time for 50 and it was five years, so it's normal to be 200 now. You don't have to make any tension around here. There's one more thing. After all, there is an immediate problem that we will have a problem that people will not work because they are low wages. The question is, why is that? If the period of government of Vojislav Kostunica is mentioned, 40,000 dinars were 600-700 euros, and that is now below 400 euros. This government has devalued those receipts, not to mention what went up in prices, from 58 dinar oil derivatives to 137 dinars, not to mention other prices, because they would go on forever. Of course, then the minister's problem will be great that our work force, because the fact is that this salary stands, it grows slightly. I'll remind you that the holders of judicial functions during that period had 50,000-60,000 dinars, and now they have over 100,000 dinars. Why aren't there some parities being made here, Mr. Minister? Why don't you spend enough authority and energy there, because this is gonna be a problem for you in the end? In the end, this final appeal comes to you, as far as I can see in the law, if the Chief Inspector doesn't answer his complaint. What's the real problem with this law? Here we can talk about a very important fact, which is that this law entered the procedure on February 25th. Obviously, it wasn't all the same for you to put it on the agenda, because I think you too respected the fact that this country is in big trouble. Mr. Minister, at a time when one of the means of public information is one alarming news -- that maybe the pension will be only six months from now, unless there are major reforms in the pension fund, and some representatives here say they will vote for it. You know, it's very dangerous to pass laws like this that, in fact, can wait, as is the fact that laws are for a society where there are no financial problems. In principle, this law would be very good. Now I'm going to give you an idea of how you're going to interfere, and people are going to be busy. Simply give that base salary of 40,000 dinars of stimulant from these fines that they will charge. To tell you the truth, I don't believe it, we mentioned earlier when they controlled the professional service of the President of the Republic that they would punish someone there with 100, 120 thousand dinars and so forth. If he does all this, they can't falsify such solutions and everything else, come on, distract people, if we're already passing this law, let the right experts come forward, the right people who are going to enforce this law. If we pass the law, then we must also receive some adequate men to enforce it. At the moment of this global economic crisis that you mentioned, 40 million dinars is a lot. Because once again, the inspectors will come down to 40,000 dinars, and here, as far as I can see, the law says, the civil servant is in charge. And the civil servant in office has no salary of 40,000 dinars, depending on the category. He is the one who will again be the director of a special organization or his assistant, and everyone else will suffer. Then there will be parity huge, huge difference of 120,000, 100,000 and 40,000. And then you'll have a problem with the inspectors, when they see how much the director receives there, as provided for in Article 43 on a civil servant in office, then you'll just make an additional problem. You know that, and I'm sure I'm right. Let's not talk about people with medium professional training who will receive 20, 25 thousand dinars. In such an atmosphere, there is no adequate work. Be assured of that. What's confusing about this law? It's not easy to see what's going on in Article 43, who's coming, who's leaving, who's taking over certain powers and things like that. So, if it is already the intention of the legislator to form the Administrative Inspectorate, the additional control of the administration's conduct, and in particular it is acknowledged that our administration in general is so corrupt that it is necessary to control it in this way, I think that all those who need to be controlled should have one normal consciousness. They're government authorities. If we get out of it, assuming there's so much wrong, then I'm sure those 36 people won't even get to the start of their job. They're supposed to be the creators of certain inaccuracies, some inaccuracies, and I'd welcome that administrative inspection. I don't understand why the appeal deadlines have been here for eight days. Why aren't they 15 days? It's simple, if it's said to be a complaint, then I guess it's 15 days? It's already one technical matter that will be resolved by amendment. The reasons for the adoption of the law states that a special law on administrative inspection existed from 1975 until the adoption of the Law on State Administration in 1992, but it is forgotten that, far from 1975 in Tito's Yugoslavia, the Ombudsman or the protector of citizens was an abstract concept from Scandinavian countries. The formation of an administrative inspectorate also raises the question of the conflict of competence of this body and of the management sector of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, since the text of the Bills, in particular the provisions of Article 43, is it completely unclear whether the establishment of an administrative inspectorate ceases to exist in the administrative oversight sector? That, Mr. Minister, is Article 43. He's making such a mistake, and it's not clear what's going on here at all. New Serbia has submitted amendments and I think you'll have that in mind and that if we're already passing a law like this, we try to fix it all together. At the very end, if you are already in art. The 18th and 45th current state administration law, passed six years ago, explicitly requires the adoption of a special law on administrative inspection, and thus the elimination of still valid members of antiquity law in 1992, why did this bill not come into the assembly procedure earlier, while the economic opportunities in Serbia were less catastrophic? After all, we see that the government itself is still, because only today are you aware of it and the fact that this law should be put into practice or not. So there's no reason not to say that we need to have administrative inspectors, it's just a moment and a time period, is this, once again, inevitable, whether this should be prolonged, whether at a time of this kind of economic crisis, an additional cost of 40 million dinars should be charged to citizens? I'm sure that all the objections I've made to you, especially what this administrative inspection takes on the sound of a special organization, which is particularly annoying to me because there will be great differences between a civil servant in position and this leading or his assistant and these people who will practically be on the ground. That's one big problem. You have to do something to reduce that difference, because you won't even start a job. It's a big problem and believe me to tell you this in good faith, not to make the same mistake by who knows which time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62180	It was used 10 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62181	I don't want to compromise, but in one part of your discussion, I'd like to agree with you. I'd like to tell you what our idea was. So this Article 43, the idea was that all those who are now working in the sector continue to do the work that they do. So, to have continuity and not to use this law as it could be used and to, you know, abolish the sector, and then they stay unscheduled, etc. So, in order for there to be no doubt of such manipulation, simply, I don't even want to do it, the law found that they are beginning to work now in the administrative inspectorate. It is generally further resolved by systematicization, but if you have an amendment that will help make this clearer, there is no dilemma that we will adopt it. I just told you that you know what our idea was. So, the idea is like your attitude you're talking about, but maybe we didn't do this very well. So, if you can help, any help is welcome. So unless the law changes, that's how it's gonna be. They remain to work, he becomes an administrative inspectorate, headed by the minister's inspectorate, he becomes the chief inspector, who from the third group officials attends the second group's office. It's so settled by the Law of Salaries. But one thing you said, and I want to remind you of what I did. You know the pay range was 1:9, very large. To my insistence, that range was reduced to 1:66, just thinking that the salary range was too large. You remember the first group official, so the special organization, if I'm not mistaken, had 146 thousand and the driver had 15,800. Okay, he's a tenant, he's not an officer, but he's not okay. Then I asked for an audit of it to be carried out and these salaries went up. Now the driver has 24 thousand, which is a significant increase from 16,000 and officials, from a younger advisor and adviser, have also received a salary increase. That's exactly what I was talking about, that it's important that these young people are attracted to something, well, in the end, and that we preserve the social security of these people, given what you just said earlier, that there has been a change in the standard of citizens in the meantime. As far as the appeal deadline is concerned, our opinion is that he's been here eight days, because we're talking to the organs here. We don't talk, the general deadline is 15 days, but here you take into account the citizens, so 15 days to get to know, to eventually hire a professional, of course the best thing would be to always hire a lawyer, it's the cheapest, it should always be pointed out, but unfortunately, the code is constantly applied, as it is best to go to a doctor in time, so the best and cheapest thing to do is hire a lawyer in time. But, so you know the deadline for 15 days, I think it's a general deadline. We're talking to the organ here. So if we put a measure on the head of the municipal administration, so there's no way to pretend he doesn't know, he knows, because he can't be head of the municipal administration if he doesn't have five years of work, he's not a graduate lawyer, so that's why we're eight days away. At the very least, we can talk about it. If, again, we're going back, if it's the right time by law, then, after adoption, every year, the first thing we do is bring in a human plan. So, we give the personnel plan and predict potential costs and employment. If the government adopts that personnel plan, then based on that personnel plan, we all do systems. So, depending on the possibility of an assessment of the Government, it will be seen whether the administrative inspection will be completed in 2012, 2013, 2014, it will go further. It's already something, but I don't think this law means that something is going to happen tomorrow, anything that happens, it's going to happen in 2012. Whether the government that will be in 2012 will have the opportunity to form immediately, which I would very much like, or whether that government will have to further form it, it is another topic. Let us be extremely open and realistic, it is difficult to imagine the completion of administrative inspections during the term of office of this government, given the competitive procedure. Well, that's just what I wanted to tell you. So, the adoption of the Staff Plan, the Systematization Act, it can't be completed before April, there's no way, no government has ever done those acts faster as planned and after how long to discuss competitions, etc., that's one of my opinions. Even if the government said we had money to hire 30 of these administrative inspectors. In the end it remains the old one, what I said – believe me here, we gave three or four competitions, we hired two. What can I tell you? It's a real state of affairs today. Now with five years of experience, it's going to be ten times harder. But anyway, when there's an amendment debate, everything we agree on, that's useful, that's what we'll accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62182	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62183	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin with a question asked by Mr. Minister, which is, shall we respect the law, or shall we not? I guess this is about a rhetorical question, because I can't imagine a minister questioning a law that defends the debate in the Assembly to be respected. So, yes, I would answer, we don't have to follow the laws and we can't leave anyone who wants to or won't, the law if it comes into force, it has to be respected. On the other hand, the question arises whether this law will introduce more order, whether this law will strengthen the responsibility of the state authorities and all others representing the subject matter and content of this law, whether this law will strengthen the transparency of the work of the state authorities, therefore, whether this purpose of the supervision and control that is highlighted here, as a very ambitious objective of the law will be achieved. By reading a term that defines administrative inspection and its purpose, we really have nothing to add or subtract. Because administrative inspection is the form of supervision of law enforcement and other regulations. By the procedure of the authorities of the State Administration, courts, public prosecutors, the Republic Public Attorney's Office, the Service of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court and the Service and the bodies whose members are elected by the National Assembly, as well as the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government in carrying out entrusted tasks of the State administration and other public authorities. So the definition of administrative inspection is really exhaustive and very clear. We also have no objections to the work of the Administrative Inspectorate, which is defined by Article 3, because the administrative inspection carries out inspection of the application of laws and other regulations governing the state administration, working relationship in state authorities and bodies of the local self-government unit, general administrative procedure and special administrative procedures, the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags, anthems of the Republic of Serbia, the use of official language and letters, the seal of state and other bodies, voting lists, books, political parties and associations and free access to information of public importance. So I quoted these members for the importance of these legal members for further discussion. So that there are no misunderstandings about whether they are the contents of this bill or whether it is a free interpretation of the People's Message on the same? Therefore, it is very important that the purpose of administrative inspection is also highlighted in Article 5, therefore, to ensure respect for the principle of legality in work, then, respect for human and minority rights, and all for the purpose of protecting public and private interest. So, this is very good, and if all the jobs provided for in this law are read, we do not have any objections because normally we will support the supervision of the application of the rules on state administration, the supervision of the application of rules on civil servants, the administrative procedure, the supervision of the application of rules on the bodies of units of local self-government or the supervision of the application of other regulations. Now that this law is put into context with other laws and when it is actually considered whether there is a serious political will to apply this law, then we already have some misunderstandings. Why? Because as you know, every law that is passed and that enters into force becomes part of the legal order and becomes actually part of this country's legal system. In the same way, the Budget Rebalancing Act, which was voted yesterday, became part of the country's legal order. I remind you, that this budget rebalance, among other things, is intended to increase the amount of funds allocated to local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. As we can see, this law foresees, not the possibility, but predicts, so at least it says, that it works on the territories of all 150 municipalities and 24 cities, as you yourself are here during this debate and mentioned. So, if that's the case, I'm very interested in how you're going to be able to, say, carry out this surveillance procedure, i.e. administrative inspection and administrative inspector, in which way these budget funds are spent. You know, if these funds are allocated to the salaries of local self-government, and somehow the salaries are linked to working relationships, I think there's some space for the supervisory inspector to say a few words about the transparency of spending these funds and the transparency of the use of those funds for the purposes for which these funds are given. Especially since it is not lifelike that it is expected that all these funds will really go to all these local self-governments in Kosovo and Metohija, because it is a real fact and that is life, that local self-governments are under question regarding their functioning in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. So, this is a very serious issue that is also raised in the application of this law on administrative inspection, which the law has this ambition to actually implement and apply, especially since it itself has this control role to check whether the laws are implemented in certain state bodies, i.e. local self-government and AP territories. So these are issues that are of great importance to the functioning of the entire legal system. Mr. Minister, you have also pointed out that the legal system has certain failures. So, in my opinion, one of the most important failures, our legal system and the most important failures in all the laws that are being passed here, is particularly about those laws that have the ambition to particularly enter into the functioning of these local self-governments, administrative districts and autonomous provinces, that somehow they don't care about life and reality. Just because we ignore reality, real life, real problems, doesn't mean that these problems themselves are going to solve themselves and it doesn't mean that they're going to disappear in that period while we keep our eyes closed. No, but these problems and all that we've come to realize that they don't exist, while implementing one policy of the virtual existence of state bodies, institutions and the possibility that the state authorities of Serbia have certain effective controls and influences the work of these local self-governments on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. So it's actually a question of whether this law can be implemented, can carry out all these controls, can carry out all these controls, can actually be functional, and where, by definition, the concept of part-round work of the Administration's inspection should work. You know, when the President of the Republic tells us publicly that he has sent certain messages to municipalities in northern Kosovo who, realistically, still function in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, but that he does not want to say what messages they have been sent. What does that mean? Can we ask from any inspection, administrative or inspection, at the very least, citizens who have the right to know, to tell us publicly and loudly, transparently what these messages are, because these messages are of far-reaching importance to the existence of this state, to the functioning of this state, and in fact to our real life of us small citizens of this Serbia. So, if we do not have the right to know what the President of the Republic is telling citizens of local self-government in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, so that we can expect one administrative inspector or inspector to function in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. These are the questions that were really needed to be asked, because whenever a law is passed, unless that law has sincere ambition, serious ambitions to be implemented, then that law is unnecessary. If you are not looking at some real facts in this law, it means that these are some ambitions about law enforcement, respect for lawfulness and how you've been questioned, and we're not sure that you're entirely honest about the fact that you think you're implementing this law. So, it is a good thing that the supervision and control of the state authorities will be strengthened, which will do everything to prevent any self-will of the state, because the state has some custom of trying in all ways to carry out its will, and it does not only need to work through certain authorities or the Ministry of Power, but often enough to have one official, one small bureaucrat financing his authority through representation of state interests and to make the lives of a citizen depending on that official, through that official of a certain state body, through that particular authority of the State itself. If we haven't yet had serious control of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija by the state auditor, if we still don't have a report on how these funds are spent at the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, if we increase salaries to local self-governments in Kosovo and Metohija, how can we expect one administrative inspector to do his job? In Kosovo and Metohija, very large funds are being paid, by the taxpayers and bonds of the Republic of Serbia. They fill the budget. They are aware that the funds are emptied that consumption is public, that revenues are reduced, so if that is the case, it is very important that both the Minister and the Ministry responsible for proposing certain laws be clear at least when presenting these laws, whether they seriously think that the law is actually being implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62184	14 minutes and 20 seconds have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62185	Thank you. I risk many being surprised by my comment, and I'm going to say that there was almost no law in me that brought respect to the authors of the law, which caused greater respect for the congregation and the matter it treats. Mr. Markovic, there's nothing binding on me, you know that we've had a little bit of a fight over the Law on the Communist Police, you haven't been well-meaning criticism, and then we started to understand each other when we talked about civil servants, but you, as a signator of this bill, deserve every commendation, whether you personally wrote it or you were able to gather the team that wrote it. I'm always starting to read from the reasoning, and when I started reading that argument, and I've already seen the difference that it's not about the copying of the members themselves, and it's an explanation of what you wanted by law, and then I saw a whole new path in the way the law came before the MPs. He's not perfect and he's very respectful of the subject and he's something different about what we all need to do together. It obliged me to read the law most carefully and to make several amendments to which the objections that exist can be removed. It's up to you to accept them or refuse them. The very constitutional basis in which you stated that at the same level it is important for the authorities of the administration to execute what the same member of the Constitution writes, to ensure the organisation of the authority's competence and work, but at the same time that the organisation implies that you also provide citizens with the protection of freedom and the right of constitutionality and legality. I felt that whoever wrote this figured out what this law was supposed to do. My great surprise was that you are already in Law II's position to appeal to the previous experience of an earlier good law. I have to admit, I respect that. Only one who's willing to make history, whoever created it, pulls out what's good and says -- we had a law that treated and covered a whole area, and now we have a law that's all about four members who treat administrative inspection. I realized that the time had finally come to make as an opposition, the position of anyone who has different programs, when it comes to the citizens' interest in this constitutional basis, to make the authorities effective and quality. It must be a job that will unite us all to make the best law. And in that you have full support. In further reading the reasons for the law's adoption, you pointed out yourself, it was said that the administrative inspection must be regulated by a special law because you inherited that obligation. However, you say that this is the beginning of the transformation of the public sector in Serbia to new social changes and the need to comply with European legislation and that it is therefore necessary to pass a special law, because it is important for this, as you do, to ensure supervision of the work of the authorities of the state administration and of public authority. This is where you and I have often agreed, many agencies that understand differently these trusted public powers while protecting and guaranteeing their position, we all advocate, especially the principles of independence and accountability, but we respect their independence and responsibility, but as you have written, but also the requirement that these authorities do their jobs legally, timelyly and efficiently. For the first time in my speech, as my position, I can read your explanation. I like that this attitude is a preventive action in terms of creating a quality administration where, to paraphrasise, what is close to everyone, where as parents we want to keep our children healthy teeth to last as long as possible, and not to help the prosthetics and aids in the authorities of the state administration to help and clothe, while we all verbally advocate that bureaucracy in the best sense should be qualified, highly paid, independent and neutral and that the change in the political structure at the top does not reflect and that calling elections does not mean that everything in the state stops. Just because we're all up for it, I want to support these goals of yours. What's interesting about this argument too? Control of the administrative inspection, you say, has been established by a series of special laws. It is true, but that jurisdiction has affected a number of new content and work subjects that are not defined by these laws at all and remains open to what the administrative inspection should actually do on these specific laws. Furthermore, these facts about increasing the volume and type of business across certain social areas, which is extended to the jurisdiction of the Administrative Inspectorate, this is my most interesting part, because they are not primarily of state and authoritative character, but of social and co-operational, a sharp increase in the number of supervised entities, the disorientation of certain issues of particular importance, etc., require that you do this. I now translate not in my right to understand matter in my own way, but I am convinced that you also meant it, that under the state, when you say – not only, but primarily of a state and authoritative character, these obligations do not mean only that forced force and forced apparatus of the state that can do it by order, but social and cooperative. I'll translate what others don't want to see. The audit is not a criminal measure. The audit is a preventive measure to arrange business in every company so we don't get punished. So I understand the social and co-operational and instructive conduct of this inspection, with the fact that we amendments went a little bit beyond that – we can, or the sea and can, but, in the record, you will see, we have made some remarks, and I really think that this is a quality shift. The state and the authorities that exercise its powers, the government and inspections and citizens and all social groups, so we are not the wild tribes that need to fight against each other, but we are probably all at the same job of creating a more quality state, a more stable and better standard. I guess we all have the same goals even though we're really admitting it, then we should all make an equal contribution to it. I'd feel really bad if someone wouldn't let me say this, I wouldn't even talk about this law. Even before I came across your explanation for one specific word, I defined that passage for myself as self-control. It is necessary that one of these authorities, that part of the administration that deals with this kind of inspection, must handle it. It is not Milan Markovic, but the minister who is currently doing the job. It is necessary, and it is explained, it is not hidden that this is one principle, even the same word was later used, self-control of the authority of the administration and the authority of the administration, as well as control of others in terms of better understanding of the law, applying and preventing the creation of a trench between citizens in whose interests we bring these laws. Instead of your desire to bury those trenches and have as easy and flat a path as possible to walk from passing to applying the law, we are now digging trenches between us in terms of passing one of these laws. I can't afford that. I want these goals that are so precise and specifically defined here as reasons for the law being passed into law, and then in practice in the best possible way. In that sense, expect full support. It also says that at the same time these changes in positions and powers legally required a change in the form of an organisation of the work of the Administrative Inspectorate. Now someone has to get a job, by running, even though I don't mind introducing some new jobs, it's exactly where the law should be brought closer to the citizens. The objectives of this law, now finally comes which is why I have carefully and approached the study of this law, you have also led them to regulate in a comprehensive and systematic manner jurisdiction, position and authority, now, I will say that they do not need an official suit, not to control the court, but to control the services in courts, because this is consistent with some other laws, and I will make it clear later, that the affairs of the Administrative Inspectorate are specified and determined according to the content and subject of supervision in a particular social and legal area, in order to avoid subsidisation, to exclude, eliminate the possibility of discretion by not defining enough the law. This is what I experience with the first sign and the desire to fight corruption in this part of society. Still, you really say that in the next position, to specify and especially guarantee an adequate legal position and protection of supervised entities, not to have someone come and at any cost to find you a mistake, but to allow them to be protected, informed, to know. Here we have objections in terms of the adoption of the minutes not later than immediately, that there is no trade, that you direct them to the corrections etc. What is very important to me, this relationship with supervised entities should result, as you say, not in their passivity, but on the contrary, in order to be active participants who will thus contribute to the achievement of the inspection control objective in the ultimate achievement of the principle of legality. I can't agree with some of the people who knocked on the chairs, scratched some of the political figures in the ministries, talked about the competitions, and today they're having an objection, and in fact information against those they work with, and girls are just being told by people like that from the state's apparatus. I am not fighting for such a way and the relationship of bureaucracy, not only when you are or when I or someone else will be in power, in principle, the loyalty of bureaucracy is ensured by respect for the criteria and rules that you establish here as a foundation. The state can't be just responsible and guilty. When I say responsible and guilty, it means that it can't just be the one who calls for a lack of respect for legality, and that the state or the one that represents it does not provide support when it wants to regulate the criteria for responsible bureaucracy. I don't want to commend myself for saying a review afterwards. You said - public competition, number. I'll give you an example, you're probably not in a position to control each of the competitions, but I know a man who, at the age of 30, a graduate lawyer, with a professional exam passed all the tests and in your ministry, not only in yours, competed and passed all the instances and was not accepted, not because of him and others. If you think or don't know what kind of person this is, I'll give you a name. It's a colleague who helps me do these amendments, an excellent lawyer, but he couldn't get through to you, and I mean in the government. So, if someone is now experiencing this competition as a set-up tender, it remains that you fight against it, but I am supporting you, and we have given you the amendment that the public competition is really an institute, but not that we are demagoguely fighting for a small salary, for an efficient administration, where you and three people need to do a job that is piled up in this kind of hyperproduction of the law, some of which are necessary, some of which may not be, but God, there's a lot of things being brought here and we barely get to follow them. What else do I want to point out? It says – given the significant consequences of inspection supervision in relation to supervised entities, it is particularly necessary to be careful and precise, in order to ensure the undisputed application of the power offices and the specific responsibility of administrative inspectors. I understand that you will not apply negative practice when we have adopted the NBS Act, so we have given their "controllers" the right to have a damaged party prove their ultimate intention to do damage, otherwise they are real and responsible and no one can ever do anything to them. Indeed, I have paraphrased, but such a provision in the NBS Act does not stand. I like that you don't ask for such protection for inspectors, because whoever's in a position to control it, the amendment said that at least the school has to have the one who controls it. Although paper and diploma themselves do not provide the level of knowledge, as diploma and the level of calling does not provide natural intelligence, but we still have to acknowledge this formality called the education document. The one who controls it must know a little more than the one who controls it. This does not mean that it can abuse its powers and try to ensure that, in ensuring these control measures or solutions made, such a way of working is prescribed to ensure the proper and complete identification of all relevant facts, and circumstances, effectiveness and timing of conduct, as well as effective achievement of the inspection surveillance objective in each area of administration. I have nothing to add, just to get this into law, or law in practice -- amendments like improvement and law in practice. You're using the entire paragraph to explain that this is also a self-control business. So, not to be surprised at what this administrative inspection is now serving, and this is very elaborate, where the final position concludes – the administrative inspection has a double nature, it is an organisational control, but also a form of administrative control of the administration. It's all clear. There are no hidden intentions. It's an obligation to control myself and when I am someone who does the job right, then I can ask others to do it. Because of this fact, you say – it is necessary to carefully and specifically regulate administrative inspection in order to normally express both its properties in a proper manner, without damage to the successful performance of the conditions. Since I have only one minute, two minutes left, I will tell you that for all the objections we have in terms of what is called days, you can when you say the control of the courts, that you are actually in control of the work rather than the service, that it is the duty to inform the parties in the process that the authorities often do not respect, so we will do it with little amendments to discuss – how the minutes are made up and what we should add, as we have done with Article 30 of this process, we have improved. For example, we have proposed that the administrative inspector decide on the objections formally in the solution he makes in the subject of inspection supervision, by making a solution in each case of inspection supervision, and you say, according to the proposal, that no action should be taken according to the proposals set out in the minutes. Not just a record to be the basis for action, but a solution as an act to which it can react. I'll remind you, Mrs. Comic and I know, because we have experience from Novi Sad, when the Novosadians were getting tax notices to pay taxes they already paid. It's not a solution. What can you complain about? If you don't pay, come and take your stuff. It's very important what a document is called. A document may also be called a congratulatory card and it may be a notice to you to offer to retire. That was an example. I don't want to go too far. I'm going to use the discussion below, so I'm going to talk about those specific issues. In any case, it's fortunate that with these goals and intentions of law to come more often, and not to be the only one so far, I can't remember so let me say one of the few examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62186	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62187	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, I would really like you to stay because I think you have an equal conversation here. (President: Please do not engage in the work of the chairman. Each participant of the session shall have the right to leave the sitting and return to his or her duties. I ask you to focus on what is your jurisdiction and your job, and that is the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Mrs. Comic, I can't talk to you. It's a compliment to me that the minister has come out, which means he can't listen to me. (President: I now warn you not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and do not consider that... Dear colleagues... (President: People's MPs, when I warn you, I ask you to listen to why I do it. I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62188	I ask you to comply with the provisions of the National Assembly and not try to take more rights to yourself than other MPs by violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62189	Okay. Dear fellow Members of the People, I hope you agree that, when we say management, we usually mean administration and we mean public administration. They're all synonyms for the same concept. All of us, including citizens, have a certain otium to the administration, because we have this kind of negative experience, and none of us like to go to the counter, or to any service of the government's authority, because he usually expects some unpleasantness or walking from one service to another, or he has a problem with the silence of the administration, or he has a problem with getting to a man he thinks is the only one competent to solve a problem, like today there are some 80-90 representatives, families from Resnik in front of the City Assembly, waiting for someone to take them in, to solve the problem they have. I am saying this because I believe that, no matter what law we pass, if it is not implemented or if there is no good will and desire, first of all, the ruling nomenclature, no matter what level of government we are at, or if the political legal system is not such that we want to set things up by solving problems, then no laws will help us. This is one benign law, so the law that's on the agenda at this point where we certainly have a lot of, a lot of problems, when we're all worried about what's going to happen on KIM, whether KFOR's going to solve the hand barricades and whether it's going to fall blood or not. But here, it's been standing since February of the month, and five years of administrative inspection based on those four remaining members of the State Administration Act. If he could've waited until now, he could've waited a little longer, let's deal with some of the more important things in the country. But you know who puts certain laws on the agenda, so here we are, talking about this law. Of course, there should be some information about the administration. I believe that there are a lot of those in our parliamentary group who have also worked in the authorities of the administration and in the ministries and who know and are competent to talk about it. Thus, when we were preparing for this debate, we could not conclude that we were satisfied with the law itself, nor the explanation given to us by the minister under this law. Having in mind, above all, that the state of Serbia has a really long history in the development of the science of administrative law, starting with Stojan Markovic, Slobodan Jovanovic, Laza M. Kostic, etc., so we haven't invented any hole in the potter now with the Administrative Inspectorate. From the moment I started my first working relationship, I met with an administrative inspector who was then part of the local self-government. So he was a government worker and it worked pretty well. He controlled us from the inside. There was a second-degree body, so he cooperated with him, of course, and was responsible to provide him with all the information he needed when he came to conduct surveillance. As with all inspections, they were wandering, hours were at the level of local self-government, hours were raised in Belgrade, for example, at the city level, so they were going to the Republic, so they were returning to the level of local self-government, but here, we now have, in the opinion of the promoter, an administrative inspection that would be part of a special directorate at the Ministry of State and local self-government. You say there's only 18 of you, we don't know how many of you there will be, and we know that you have, you know, that's what you wrote to us, 28 thousand so-called. objects or entities to be monitored. How do you think you'll ever be able to achieve any kind of oversight under official duty? You may be able to do something by applying and doing something, but I'm sure you won't be able to honor that deadline we've been giving you here to respond to your applications. You can expect a large number of applications after this law has been passed. We're really wondering how much this country costs, the way you're currently imagining it? Since Mr. Gilas won't take these people standing outside the City Assembly, because they owe them some electricity, which is actually stolen by some concrete girls in the same hour, those people will probably freeze for days, waiting for someone to talk to them, because their home is cold anyway, their electricity's off. Will this law or any other law solve their problem? When the minister here answers the question of one of my colleagues or after his discussion decides to replicate and give further explanations, he says he is powerless when he goes somewhere to Presevo, Bujanovac or I don't know where, so he sees that the original Serbian flag is not true that he can't react, but he doesn't know what law he needs to react to. You have the Law of Local Self-Government, and that makes perfect sense to you that you can react to it. Secondly, there's a communal inspection, gentlemen, who controls it. The flag must be, it is known in what state and when it must be highlighted. But in this country of these laws... That's why we feel that here and we don't need this special law on administrative inspection, that he could have survived as part of the former Law on State Administration, which once treated all inspections, and this administrative inspection, but as if we were doing according to the norm, so we need as many laws as possible and, of course, immediately refer to some special European experience, which God knows how good they are, and when we talk about these European experiences, then I think that every one of you who met with representatives of public services or bodies in the West could notice how inefficient they are. I'll give you an example. I left, since the subject of this law is prison control, I went to Cheveningen. I sign up there, an orderly visit, registered, approved. I sign up to the clerk's counter and he says it's okay, here's a pass. I hang a pass, they pass me through that first door and I go with that undertaker for the next ten doors and I come back to that one officer. There's already a glass door, I see a prisoner, I see Vojislav Seselj. I show him that pass, he looks at some list and says, "Here you are, ma'am, gone." I say, how did I get in here? He says I have no idea. I say, "Call a colleague on the first counter who let me go and gave me a pass." On what grounds did he give it to me? He says: I have nothing to talk to him; you are not on the list, and you must go out. Of course, that's where I'm going to argue, but I can see that the devil took the jokes I can't get in. It took an hour, but in the end, I was carried out out again. So I couldn't get in that day. I'll be back the next day. I had an approved visit for five days. So I come back again and now the first one, on that first counter, says you're not on the list. How am I gone now? I say yes - call the secretary, please. I ask them if they want to see what this is about. He says, "I don't have anything to call the secretary. I don't have you on the list." There's a lawyer, you won't believe, a Canadian citizen of Serbian origin, who doesn't know how to speak Serbian. He says, "Ma'am, do you have a problem?" I say - I have, I can't come in, and I have an approved visit. He says, "Give me the phone." He picks up a phone, turns someone over at the secretary's office and says, "Wait, they'll call you in five minutes." They're really calling me and I'm going to jail. What am I talking about? I'm telling you, this isn't probably real corruption, these are some acquaintances. Thank you man, he's done a lot to me. We have a problem with corruption. We can't stop this law from working properly. What's a citizen gonna do and what's the administrative inspection gonna do to help him if the administration shuts up? Shut up, so shut up. But for me, the biggest problem is, because of the citizens who are following this transmission of our session to mention what all of our administrative inspection needs to control, such a small, poor and poorly equipped, professionally and numerically, whatever you want. We need cars, too. You'll have, as far as I could figure out from one member alone, that's Article 32, you'll have decommissioned departments. That's not said at all in the law, just where the appeal is said, we're suggesting you have decommissioned departments in the districts. I saw, there's one for two districts in Nishava County. How's he doing? What's he gonna do? What's a man gonna do? There's no way he's gonna answer the question. Free law, he can't do the job. But, here, the administration in Serbia is made up of ministries, to know people, special organisations, administration bodies within the ministry, and then state administration authorities, and then, organisational continents within other state bodies, which, as their regular activity, perform certain tasks of the state administration, which is the government's service, judicial administration, regional secretaries and directorates, as the regional authorities of the administration, as well as the municipal, city administration and administration of the capital of Belgrade, as well as the authorities of local self-government units. Now the administrative public authority and trust in business, the work of the administration as a state function are performed, primarily by the authorities of the state administration, those we have now listed, the authorities of the province and the authorities of the local self-government, that is the public administration. However, administrative powers, we have seen this from the law, otherwise some entities that are outside the state system, outside the organisation of the state, are various institutions, organisations, public enterprises, and even individuals. They do the tasks and tasks of the administration as secondary actions, and you will control these previous ones. We have 18 ministries so far, we have special organizations - 13, we have administrations within the ministry - 6 pieces: the Ministry of Finance has two; the Ministry of Agriculture has four: Water Directorate, Forests Administration, Veterinary Administration, Plant Protection; the Ministry of Trade and Service has the Department of Goods Reserves; the Ministry of Environment Protection has the Environment Agency; the Ministry of Justice has the Department of Criminal Sanctions; the Labour and Social Policy Inspectorate has the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, etc., so we have the AP Vojvodina which has what again, the regional secretariats, special administrative organizations, seduces, directorships and so on. So, in the authorities of the AP, we have 17 secretariats, so we have local self-governments -- 176, I think that's where you put everyone on KIM, and we have public agencies, as far as we have no one knows, I mean over 100, "101 Dalmatian," that's how much. The administrative inspection is overseeing the work of the authorities of the state administration, other services, courts, prosecutors, president of the Republic of Serbia, the public authority holder. I wanted to talk to you about the kind of management control. We have political control of the administration. How effective is she? Let's get out of here, fellow MPs. That political control, that's the Assembly. Do we control the government properly? No, we can't put on the agenda a motion to vote mistrust with the government or an impeachment on a minister. Public opinion and political parties, it's also a kind of control of the administration. Can we even come to terms and say what we have in the administration? We can't, because the media is closed to some political parties. The legal control of the administration, that's the administrative one, but there's a judicial one, they also have special forms of control, and that's the Ombudsman and the public prosecutor's office. How effective are they? We all know that neither the public prosecutor's office is efficient enough, nor the courts are effective. So what do we expect from administrative inspection? The wish exists, but you certainly won't be able to replace the ineffectiveness of judicial control of the administration and what the prosecution should do and what the Ombudsman should do. There is something else I must say about the political control of the administration, especially regarding the importance of political control, control by the Assembly, above all legislative control, when budgeting. That's where we control you, what you do and how you do. We don't even know now how much it's really going to cost, because you gave us an explanation of how much it's going to cost us administrative inspection by December 31st. How much is next year going to cost us, we don't know that. What do you need from equipment, how many employees, what do you need suits for? The bus controllers don't have suits either, only the municipal police who go with them have a suit. You're still going to the board's office, as a representative of the board. What's in particular to dress and emblems to upload, and yet in advance you announce that you're in control. It's a real waste of money, but we're suffering from some uniforms, we have to be different from the rest of the normal world. Another kind of political control is a parliamentary issue. How effective is that? First of all, you can't ask in the congregation what you want, and if you get an answer, there's no talking. From whom, when does the government not even come to you here? How effective have the survey committees been in the past 20 years? Not really. I won't even talk about the minister's responsibility. There is no way that the ruling majority will call anyone to account or put what the opposition is asking for on the agenda. As far as the government is concerned, the appointment of officials in the authorities of the administration, we have here a proposal that the Chief Administrative Inspector appoints the Government on a proposal from the Minister. Who, someone from the DS leadership? Why can't a public competition go when you're looking for quality people? For example, Republika Srpska did so. To tell you the truth, when I read the Law of Administrative Inspection of Republika Srpska, I understood everything. I've had to read this one of yours three times because all you do is prescribe other people's laws. Why don't you say Serbian that the whole world understands you? The beautiful Lukic language in norming is completely lost. There are no Yankees, no Marks, no Xs, no Ipsylon, and some six-row scavenger sentences, complex and complex. Make it simple. Of course, public opinion, media and NGOs also play a role. So, besides administratively, there are judicial and special forms of control. This inspection of yours. external control, administrative inspection, it's an inspection that should help the administration to be more up-to-date, above all, and that is where people who have adequate expertise work. I'm finishing this sentence, and we've had the experience that for the President of the Court, a chosen man has been elected today as judge. What do we expect here? So we trust you absolutely nothing, whatever laws you make, because you don't apply the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62190	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word to use their right in this part of the session? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: LDP, DSS, Forward Serbia, SRS and ZES. Before I give a word to the first registered speaker for a word in the principled review of the draft law on administrative inspection, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will determine the usual break of an hour after we have completed the principle search on the draft law on administrative inspection, and that we will be working after 18,00 hours today, and until the end of the principle search on the next item of the agenda. The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62191	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I wish I could also say Mr. Minister, but I can't, I can't, I'm not in the O.R., I don't know why...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62192	People's MP, please do not engage in the work of the chairman but to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62193	Madam Chairman, I ask for so much respect that you allow me to complete my thought...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62194	National MP, you are required to listen to the chairman's warning. All of us in this room are obliged to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Every participant of the session shall have the right to leave the session room from time to time for other purposes and shall not be allowed to present in their own exposure the false things that you are not able to claim according to the Rules of Procedure at all. The job of the chairman is to make sure that the session is held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The presence of the Minister, a member of the Government, has not been established by any member of the Rules of Procedure, and I think that you and I agree that it is a practice that will not give up and that the session will be held with the presence. It is unacceptable to abuse the provisions in such a way as to deal with the work of the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62195	As everyone has the right to leave the room for their own personal needs, and ministers and MPs... (President: People's Parliament, please on the subject of the agenda. I am seriously warning you that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are very clear and that we are all obliged to respect them. Let me finish the thought. It's an utter insolence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62196	People's MP, I ask you not to do the work of the chairman. Please comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. That's what you're bound to do and you're required to do. People's MP, if you want to use the time available to you as a parliamentary group, I ask you to sign in, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the obligation to speak on the subject of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62197	Before I move on to the metrics, I will express regret that this malicious approach limits my parliamentary rights. I also have the right to express the regret I express is part of the subject we're talking about. All this is happening in the congregation about the subject and about what is our basic job. If anyone has the right to have such a relationship with the presentation of MPs, and I, as a People's MP, have the right to express regret. No one can take that right from me. Also, it is very brave for a professor to interpret the Rules of Procedure, when no one has applied for the Rules of Procedure or has applied for the Rules of Procedure. What I wanted to say was an introduction to the metrics of what I want to expose. I'm very sorry that you misread my approach and for expressing it in such an arrogant way. And now I'd move on to the subject. To talk about this law, I was thinking whether or not to participate in the debate at all, because what is stated in the part of the reasoning that is called – the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is done politely, I would say correctly, the structure of the law has been done correctly, with respect to what my colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic said, and as far as language and style are concerned, we could discuss it. So too many reasons to criticise what's called the measure of the law doesn't have. Especially since the shortcomings of the law were also properly spoken by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, so that I would not repeat what my colleague Judita Popovic said or what my colleague Palalic said in a very correct way through his analysis. I already said that she pointed very correctly to the language and style and co-worker Pop-Lazic. But the discussions I've been listening to and the answers of Mr. Minister have led me to give some of my impressions about the law at all, but which concern not only the measure of the law but what's called the lawmaking process and what's called law enforcement. It's all about the law we're talking about. When I talked about the shortcomings, I called on what my colleague Palalic said. So I'm not going to repeat what's said, I'd just stick to something about what's called controlling the authorities in the provinces. Of course, the LDP supports the absolute and total autonomy of the Vojvodina, but it is quite understandable that it is necessary for the legislator and legislator when adopting one law to refer to what the powers of the republican authorities and to the tasks of the supervision of the republican authorities in the provinces themselves are. It's one of the shortcomings of this law. I would add that not only in this law, but also in many other laws, there is no mention of how the Republic of its administrative powers operating throughout its territory? Does this mean that the ruling majority, or the Serbian government, knowingly violates the Constitution, confessing through such legal texts that KIM are no longer part of the Republic of Serbia? We didn't get an answer to that question. Independent of my party's programming definitions, from a legal point of view, that's a fact and we haven't really got an answer to that question. Mr. Minister also looked back, giving an explanation or an appropriate colleague, Palalic, that much is necessary for the state to do in order to regain its authority. He mentioned something that offends him and that in the extreme case every citizen of the Republic of Serbia should insult, which is the issue of flags on state authorities' buildings in Presevo, which are often torn apart. I don't understand why, by explaining a law that's quite rightly done, why is such a replacement of thesis used? The attitude to the flag is known, that it can be subdued under the provisions of the Criminal Code and all that can be brought under the provisions of the Criminal Code is the work of the police and the judiciary. Why does the Minister of State and Local Self-Government explain it to us? Does he want to cover his incompetence and the inadequacy of other state authorities? This is not just a question for this law-making home, it is a question of the general existence of the Serbian state. Also, something that is fundamentally related not only to this law but to the legal procedure at all is – is there a government majority for this law and how will this law be passed? I'm not sure the government has provided a smooth flow of this process. Why am I not sure? Because I'm listening to representatives of the ruling majority speaking from absolutely opposition points of view. I know that the elections are closer and that the best way to be an opposition is before the elections, but I also know that to exercise power for three years is to withdraw responsibility. Don't, colleagues from the ruling majority, as a "ponti's pill" to wash your hands compared to all that was done in the last three years. Mr. Minister spoke of law enforcement, to create a competitive state administration, to restore authority to state authorities, etc. I don't know why the state authorities lost their authority. Obviously, if the minister says state authorities need to regain authority, it means that these state authorities have no authority. When it comes to the application of rights, it is not only a matter of the measure of this law and what this law will bring with it, it is a general question for all state authorities. How do we apply the laws? Whether because of the non-application of the law or because of the incompetence of the state authorities, both the authorities of the state administration and the authorities of the MUP and the authorities of the judiciary. Because of their incompetence, it comes to the fact that members of individual state authorities are savagely, defiled by the rights of individual citizens of this country, discriminating the position of leading politicians in this country without being accountable to anyone. In particular, an illustration -- Mr. Cedomir Cupic, a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, not only came out of the framework of his competences, but by a bunch of abuses brought unrest on Serbia's political scene, discriminating specifically Cedomir Jovanovic, the Liberal Democratic Party, working on the fact that the High Council of the judiciary no longer exists by directly attacking, I don't know by whose order, but I do know that it is on the orders of professor. Dimitrijevic, as a member of the High Council of the judiciary, violates all the standards of decent conduct and all the rules, that is, all the powers given to him by the Anti-Corruption Agency. It's a state-run body, state-of-the-art. What Mr. Cupic was doing, so I'm sorry that I can't elaborate anymore, because if I continue to elaborate, I'd have to use words that aren't in standard dictionaries. In such anomalies, according to such anomalies, the state has no necessity, the state has a terrible and warning silence. How then, now we're talking about applying a law that's going to introduce some sort of order in inspection, in the authorities of the state administration when we have a state of action like this. And to that question, the state authorities, and to that question, the government doesn't give us an answer. And what is the most regrettable colleagues from the ruling coalition, especially colleagues from the Democratic Party over that silence. We haven't heard any serious criticism about the obvious anomaly of our entire society, not just our political system. That warning silence is actually a picture of the decade of our country. I once, I think, told this particular speaker that the Democratic Party resembles the Socialist Union of the Workers. I'm sorry to say so, but I'd like him to think of that qualification, because it's known how the Socialist Union ended up working people, drowned in the SPS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62198	Eleven minutes used by the MP's group. Right on the replica of Hope Kolundji's folk letter, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62199	The Honorable Chairman, first of all, I really don't think there can be a topic of the Democratic Party, and the alleged false concern for the Democratic Party I think is part of an attempt to politicise a topic that is not on the agenda today, nor should it be politicised in this way. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, we have given full support to independent regulatory bodies and if you think that because of the fact that by supporting independent regulatory bodies, the Democratic Party does not comment on their actions in which, you will allow, if there is someone who has been used or abused by representatives of some independent regulatory bodies, then there is also a representative of the Democratic Party and if someone thinks that the calculation with independent regulatory bodies, because there may sometimes be misunderstanding or sometimes disagreement in the work of individuals in these independent regulatory bodies, should be subject to political pressures on these independent regulatory bodies, then we are fundamentally different. So, if there are misunderstandings that need to be removed if there is uncertainty in how independent regulatory bodies operate in accordance with the law, then I think that this should be done in another way and called on the Democratic Party to deal with independent regulatory bodies, shows the lack of understanding of the essence of the position of independent regulatory bodies, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the lack of understanding of the position of the Democratic Party which considers that strengthening and building these bodies leads to the democratisation of society.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62200	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. National MP Miroslav Petkovic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62201	I'm advertising Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the same basis as Madam Chairman, under which you gave the right to the replica of Mrs Nadi Kolundji, you were obliged to give the right and replica to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62202	People's MP, the right to replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Nobojsa Rangelovic, from the post: Stand to listen to the explanation, it stands in the Rules of Procedure. ) Please do not abuse the precious right of each of us, to really inform the National Assembly of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the abuse of the right to free word is the same as promoting the prohibition of the right to free word. Thank you. National MP Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62203	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I will wait for my colleague, Rangelovic, to exercise his parliamentary right, as he has requested parliamentary law, since he has demanded a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to not cause certain problems, let him finish, so I will be happy to report.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62204	People's MP, do you want a word or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62205	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62206	Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62207	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected representatives of the ministry, no one from the DSS has disputed the need to pass this law, no one, or colleague Palalic, who is authorized in front of our parliamentary group, has said that there are no regulations that are still in force, no one has said that administrative inspectors are not doing their job under these regulations, we have simply drawn attention to the fact that this bill is not good and therefore we have submitted a number of amendments and we want to fix it in order to give quality law and tool for the administrative inspectors to do all the work. We are proud of the fact that in 2005 we outlined certain directions in the reform of the state administration and that Mr. Markovic and the people who worked in the ministry had continued to go that way and normally that there was continuity. It has been six years since then, that something has not been done and repaired in the functioning of the state administration. When I was a young intern first learned from old colleagues, they told me two things. The state's work can never be done and the hours last eight hours. Now, these people have already retired and I hope we all realize that this job has to be done a lot more seriously and Mr. Markovic has said that there are thousands of entities that will become the administrative inspection facility. I know very well how certain local self-governments work, and I am sure that they will have not only administrative inspectors of the job but also a budgetary inspection, given that the militias spend funds from the budget reserve in certain local self-governments in order to present to the people that they function in a great way, and I am sure that for that reason they will criminally respond and spend a few years in prisons in the criminal institutions of this country. Our wish is indeed to correct this law and specifically point to certain shortcomings with trust, a sincere understanding of experienced people who have been doing this work for many years, that they will draw attention to Mr Markovic, that this law can be corrected by the DSS amendments. We pointed out in this debate when this law arrived, that after that Mr. Cvetkovic had completed the reconstruction of his government and that Mr. Milan Markovic had received another piece in his portfolio relating to human and minority rights, and I think it is absolutely normal to find provisions in this law regarding it because someone should deal with this issue and carry out inspection and in this part. Some colleagues mentioned the problem, or responded to what Mr. Markovic said, what the Serbian flag looks like in Presevo. It is clear that the criminal code is why someone should answer, but obviously the state cannot implement all these measures in Presevo, but it is sad that when you cross the Belgrade streets, on certain state institutions, instead of washed and ironed Serbian flags, you believe that it is more like a torn track, and it is a disgrace to all of us, starting with the minister, to all the responsible persons who need to deal with this business and to take care of it. As regards some concrete remarks, it is not clear to me that you write in the Bill's proposal that administrative inspection in accordance with the established section is required to act according to each play and that citizens and other applicants are informed of the outcome of the proceedings. Of course she's bound to act on every play, but what happens if that play isn't signed. If we don't know who it is who is that complains about the functioning and the labour authority, how will the administrative inspection provide him with an answer to what she did through his remarks? The next problem, at the time of the official duties of the administrative inspector, is that he is wearing a prescribed official suit. Some colleagues have already talked about it. Of course, it also requires great costs, various competitions, scytheists and everything else, some people who will get a good job to do the part professionally and professionally, but I'm afraid of one other thing, when I cross the Belgrade streets, we can see both police officers and firemen and municipal police officers and people from the private security uniform and armed, and now we'll also see administrative inspectors with some emblems and some uniforms. I think we're slowly turning into a Mundir state where anyone who does a job will be unbalanced, whether with a paw or an act, whether with a pendreka or with a gun, we'll see about that. I don't think there's any need to introduce this as an obligation of administrative inspectors. The inspector may take appropriate preventive measures, such as warnings. So he can point to certain problems, he can suggest certain measures, but I think it's too wide-ranging and that that way he shouldn't be standing in the bill of this law. In this way, in addition to having a uniform and emblem, it was left with the possibility to take some measures without clearly precise procedure. You know, if you're doing a job, you need to know on what basis, how and how you carry out a certain procedure, and this bill in this part of the law isn't supposed to do at all. I think that this is one of the most important parts of this law and the minutes should certainly be clear and precise so that we can conclude on the basis of it what the administrative inspector did when doing his job and what measures should be taken after the supervision has been carried out. The significance this record has in the inspection procedure needs to be much more detailedly presented in this law and therefore we have proposed. I don't see any reason why that record doesn't stand at the time of the inspection, that there's no name of the person of the supervised authority who was present with the inspection, because it's likely that someone who comes to the inspection will welcome there and the name of that authority in which the inspection is carried out will be present. In addition to the inspector having a uniform and an emblem in his pocket, I think he should have the authority of an inspector to do the job. Of course, the supervisory authority has the right to make objections within a certain time limit. We've suggested that it be three days since the release of the record. It does not appear in the law that when this is done and the minutes are drawn up that they are under the obligation of both the inspector and the authorised person to sign the report. It exists for overspeed on the road, exists in a number of other situations. Why was that avoided in the bill? The inspection report shall be kept by each administrative inspector. I think it's the ministry's job and that the ministry, in addition to a series of records it's running, should be doing exactly this job. A complaint may be made against the administrative inspector's solution to the ministry and not to the administrative inspectorate. It's basically that this could work perfectly normal. Indeed, criticism was justified when we said that a new inspectorate was set up, after a series of agencies, administrations, specialised bodies that exist in this country, that regional inspectorates would be formed. Mr. Markovic said that 18 people can't do this job. We totally agree with that. It is not disputed that the number of inspectors should be higher because they will certainly be implemented and certain savings, but I am interested in how much the number of employees in the state administration is exactly on the basis of the law that we have criticised here when we have explained that this will not be carried out in everyday practice. It's down by zero, it's just increased. How much are the savings? Also zero, they're increased. Under the bill, 40 million and 400,000 dinars by the end of this year are needed to ensure that this inspectorate works. We can imagine how much that's going to be in next year. Gentlemen of the Ministry, what about the competitions we see every day in the papers? I agree that certain shifts have been made. The inspection might work better, but this is Politics from Thursday last week, from the 13th. Staff Management Service – Director, Assistant Director, Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy – 17 executives are wanted, RHMZ – 15 executives, meaning from section chief to junior advisor, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development – 14 executives. In just one day, a competition for three state authorities to hire 50 new people came out in the daily "Politika" list. When we point out that this is a problem, the inspectorate must function and these people should be rewarded in quality. But don't talk about no one coming to work for 40,000 dinars. Why are these competitions scattered? Are you saying this won't be filled? Well, it's not called that building rubber building. You've already received hundreds and hundreds of people, maybe it's measured in thousands, and here you represent the situation that the number is limited and no employment is done. We're written, and we know how to read what it says. Believe me, we'll also ask in response to the parliamentary question whether these 50 people applied to the competition or not to work because they only pay 40,000 dinars. Adopt amendments to the DSS, so that this law is corrected, that administrative inspectors can do their job. I'm sure they won't be able to control all the thousands of entities they need to control, but give it concretely to the part that's been done -- administrative inspection, budget inspection, who deserves a prison, who doesn't have to be commended, and that everyone in this country is doing this, why we're wasting some of our time and money on Serbian citizens, not to pass one regulation that will not be applied in practice and not to employ party personnel and thus buy voters for the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62208	It's been used 12 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been given by MP Kenan Hajdarevic, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Time is available for three minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62209	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has already said two basic objections to the bill and I can say that there are also concerns and I will repeat that. We're expecting an answer from the minister. Our first concern concerns what the predecessor said, which is that this inspection does not become just one authority in the hands of the ruling parties, i.e. the administrative inspectors, which are foreseen by this bill, do not become mercenaries party to the conduct of ruling parties. For this apprehensive foundation, the minister of the ruling coalition, who told us six to seven months ago that the ministry has from cook to assistant, can't be anyone but the minister's party. The second reason for this concern was given to us 6-7 months ago also by the chief of labour inspection who resigned because all labour inspectors became members of a ruling party, and in his place he was appointed as head of an inspection for the work of the candidate or holder of the list of local elections at the Vozdovac party of the minister. I think that fear of ours is justified. The second reason, i.e. the lack we see in the implementation of this law, is how this law will be implemented in the territory of KIM, which is how administrative inspectors will be able to control the work of local self-government in the territory of KIM. I think it's a very important question and we expect an answer to that. In the explanation of Minister Markovic and in the replica he had with Mr Palalic, we heard some of his sentences of the type that we should bring to work and the law of the state authorities, we should respect the law, and we are witnesses that this is exactly what the ministry, that is, part of the ministry dealing with human and minority rights, is not doing. Mr. Markovic should first say what he did to implement the National Councils Act. Why today does the state of Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, not recognise elections for the National Council of Bosniaks? What did the ministry do about the recommendations made by the Citizens' Protector, Commissioner for Equality? What has been done with reports filed by the Information Commissioner against persons, state officials, or ministerial assistants and some other civil servants who forged the voter list for elections for the Bosniak National Council? We can't talk about the law being respected, and first, the ministries don't respect that law. Minister Markovice also mentioned Presevo in respect of the law, and he won't say anything – why does he not respect the Law on the election of the National Council of Bosniaks? The elections have been, results have been established and due to the lack of respect for this law, the rights of national minorities, in this case the Bosniak national minorities, cannot be fulfilled in that scope that the Constitution and the law give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62210	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade, followed by the messenger of the people Srdjan Milivojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62211	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the MPs of the SRS, their objections to the government's draft laws, as well as to the proposal for a law on administrative inspection, bring them through amendments that we wish, as far as possible, to bring the laws to their applicability and to make them acceptable and, above all, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the specific purpose for which they are being adopted. When it comes to this law, we have submitted amendments and we will talk about them when they are spoken individually about the proposal of this law. In this principle debate we will certainly present and we have already made our own principled objections to this bill, especially with regard to the explanation and what the minister has said to us in the opening words, but also later in communication with fellow Members. It's not the first time. Mr. Milan Markovic, every time he represents a law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, presents it as an epochal reformist law. He advocates something and he will reform the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and we listen to it every day. If he were here, I'd ask him, but I'm sure his advisors will. On the other hand, I would draw attention to the fact that Mr. Zoran Petrovic, the assistant minister, Mr. Milan Markovic, is present here, who is probably no one more competent to talk about this topic precisely than Mr. Zoran Petrovic. I personally know a man from the time I was deputy minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of Mirko Marjanovic, and then Mr. Zoran Petrovic was in charge of administrative inspection, he was in charge and he did well. Now this law is not something that life begins with and the world begins with. There's a difference in something else. According to Mr. Milan Markovic, the Law on Administrative Inspection ceased to apply in 1992. Now someone would think that the area was completely unregulated in Serbia. That's not true. It's regulated through some other laws. We can also talk about whether we needed this today or whether it's just important for the minister to put his plus-one somewhere on an agenda, because we had a legal basis for doing administrative inspection work. Assistant Minister, Mr Petrovic, whom I mentioned, well knows that at the time he worked, it was then in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, so it was called, and then the rule of law functioned well, and then the administrative inspection really did its job, and then the records and measures of the administrative inspectors were highly respected. Is that how it is today? I am confident, or I will show the examples that it is not, and I am confident that Mr. Assistant Minister shares that opinion. I don't expect him to say that, because I don't trust Minister Markovic, what he said was that he advocated as much exclusion of political parties from the state administration and local self-government as possible. Also, for example, we'll show that it's not true. Here's the freshest example, the list. If two days were current, so to speak, the affair of how the officials were, say, in Vojvodina, DS were all designated as census instructors. When it's published in the media, they say - we joked, we don't do it, we advocate that parties stay out of the state business, etc. Where you get caught, then you stand up for it, and where it goes undetected, then how you use it, or abuse it, by ruling in some local self-government. What are you doing with the voter lists? Will it be the administrative inspection, Mr Petrovic, after this law finally puts it in order? We claim he won't, and it's pretty late. Here's why. There's no chairman of the D.S. municipal board where they're running power without being in the house, not in the party's headquarters, but in the house, a copy of the voter's list. What do you get out of the ballot list for? To call people on the phone, to ask for safe votes, to call for any party activities. That's how you recruit citizens for the election. Is that true? That's right. I've got as many examples as you want. How are various signatures being presented here as citizens' signatures for some kind of political party initiative? How did he collect the signature with several hundred thousand G17 plus? Ask employees in municipalities where the G17 plus is in power. They had to do it at work. How were several hundred thousand signatures collected by the Progressive Party for the Amendment of the Constitution? What happened to that? Ask the employees of Zemun and Voždovac municipalities how they collected these signatures, gentlemen who are involved in administrative inspection, in working hours, for wages, at work, under sea, even if it is not a member of the SNS, they prescribed from the electoral list. We're here on the Constitutional Affairs Committee, and it's been accepted to check these signatures, to verify credibility, because we claimed that the same pen was written. What happened? A few months ago, she ate a cat. No one mentions it. Why? Because the advancers don't push it anymore, because they realize that we've nakeded their intention to change the constitution to erase the preamble that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Is the team going to handle the administrative inspection? You should. You've predicted, the Board of Inspectors will control the political parties. So how? How and why? What's the administrative inspection going to tell the political party how many people they're going to hire? What kind of equipment will the party employees have? Here, we recommend, prescribe that every party president must be a professor, doctor and here, only the Serbian Radical Party meets the requirements of being a party. Then you would have to draw attention to the advances, that, according to Wikiliks, Tom Nikolic bought a diploma. Do you want to do that? There's a law on funding political activities, there's a law on banning corruption. So these are laws that need to be regulated. But you didn't put here to control, look at the miracles, the agencies, because the agencies don't fit any of these categories that are listed here. Not one, and Minister Markovic said 20 days ago on a television show, in a printed media interview, using the Serbian Radical Party's absolute arguments, that agencies should be abolished, among other things, because they are the para-state authorities, because they are performing the tasks that are within the ministry's jurisdiction. You didn't predict that you would control the para-state organs. So the agency will still be able to pay thousands of euros. At the agency you will continue to receive employees on the party line and there is no administrative supervision. No one's gonna live, and they can't control it. It explained such a large number of laws proposed by the ministry of Milan Markovic on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. Those laws have been passed. I will mention only some of them, that they may ask you, do they apply? We claim no. We also claimed when you brought them in that they were not applicable and that you would not be able to apply them. That's the case, gentlemen, and with this law we're talking about today. As it was applied, it's still in progress and the population census bill has been extended? Will someone from the state of Serbia, from the regime, be you who deals with administrative inspection, will Minister Markovic, Boris Tadic, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who is the current figure who will tell the citizens of Serbia – why are Serbs not listed as citizens of the Republic of Serbia at KIM? Is that what you were doing? You have jurisdiction. Is that what you were wondering? Of course, you're not because you're doing what you're told from the EU. Here you said, among other things, why you are passing the law - to fulfil your obligations to the EU. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, SRSkada tells you that we need to cut off any communication with the EU, legitimately speaking to you there are at least 54% of Serbian citizens, as officially against Serbia's entry into the EU today. When we said only a few months ago that Serbia should not enter the EU, they laughed loudly here. Now that we mention it, we see heads down, because you know it's the opinion of the citizens of Serbia. They know what's in their interest. They know the citizens are not in their best interest to have EULEX kidnap KIM. They know that they are not in the interest of NATO killing Serbs in Brnjak and Jarinj. You'll still host Mary Warlick here in parliament today. You've got nothing better to do. (Chairman: National MPs, please on the agenda. It's your duty to talk about the agenda. ) Mrs. Komic, this was about the Census Act. (President: There is a law on administrative inspection on the agenda. I ask you to bring up the subject you mentioned, bring in a link to the law on administrative inspection, and do not violate the Rules of Procedure. ) Mrs. Komic, please, I'm talking about the reasons for the law. I comment on what the ministry wrote. I really have no intention of asking you to synopsis what I'm going to say. Can't I comment on what it says in the explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62212	People's MPs, I'm warning you now. So it happens our ears don't hear what our mouths say. I warned you that you were allowed with the mind to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the moment you completely left the topic of the agenda, not before. By looking at the stenogram, if you were dared by chance, you will see that my intervention to which I am bound by the Rules of Procedure refers when you simply started to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which obliges you to speak about the agenda, not before. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62213	In your explanation, you further stated that you had passed the Law on official use of language and letter. I ask you, is the Cyrillic letter used in accordance with this law? Is this law applicable? No, it's not. Then what are you making laws for free? You brought here, you wrote here, the Single Election List Act. Does the state of Serbia have a law on a single polling list? There isn't. Then what are you passing the law for? So we ask you, why should you have this law, when you will not bring it? You're saying in terms of how much the administrative inspection will cost. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the salaries of the Director of the Administrative Inspectorate. Most importantly, you will have a director of the administrative inspectorate, assistant, director and 19 employees, who should be admitted into a working relationship. What happened to the law? You wrote here that you passed the Law on the reduction of the number of officials in the state administration and local self-government. Is it possible that in that percentage you need to cut, and you didn't cut it, there's no 19, plus these two officials, who can do their job? Is that possible? Then who did you receive in your employment? Who did you receive when you tripled the number of government officials, when you don't have 19 people who can work on the application of this law? Of course, as you are now receiving, you have also made it possible by law. Look who takes all the wages, for example, in the municipality of Zemun and never enters the gates of the municipality of Zemun. Send a little inspection, do something. Do not just pass laws or propose laws that will not apply. The minister says there's going to be a contest. You'll receive it in competition? Yeah, make sure we don't believe you, just like you've been receiving since the competition. I'm sorry to look at you, but unfortunately, the minister is not here, so I'm speaking through you to the minister. So you're not doing what it says here. We have experience, we know that's not how you work. He says the minister has no idea how many professional people who know two or more languages know a computer, etc. Come on, people, let's deal with what's really in the interest of Serbian citizens. Of course, there are certain predispositions that some employees need to know, all of which is prescribed what needs to be met as a condition for someone who should do a certain job. Here, we read in the paper this morning that Boris Tadic spoke another language, he spoke Ustasha. He's been acting that way for a long time, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62214	People's MPs, if there was any chance that by giving you the measure of warning I would bring you up to read the Rules of Procedures and the provisions of Rules of Procedure that prescribe us all the way we treat ourselves, I would do so, but there are things that you either learn in time or you never learn, so I ask you to be more careful in dealing with the MPs, the participants present sitting or anyone else. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Yes. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62215	Injury of the 107th by the chairman of parliament. During my debate, Mrs Comic spoke very offensively of me personally as the MP for the SRS parliamentary group. Of course, I know what it says in the Rules of Procedure, and I know they can warn me, and I know they can interrupt me, and I know I can't complain if they interrupt me, even though it doesn't say it anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. All of this, of course, we have to tolerate, because we don't have others, but the insults Mrs. Komic has said about what's on my mind, which I have to remember, whether I am normal or not normal, paraphrasing, Mrs. Komic, I hope you will look at the stenogram, and I, in particular, will bring it to a certain place in public, is indeed inadmissible behavior and more abuses of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, Mrs. Gordana Komić. This can't be put up with, can't be tolerated, can't be tolerated. Mrs. Comic's opinion can be expressed, it is known, writes in the Rules of Procedure, answers the word and says what needs to be said. The MP should also be able to say what he thinks he should say and, of course, take care of it. We know that your Rules of Procedure is restrictive and we have said it and we repeat it over and over again. We know that the application of this Rules of Procedure actually means disabling the function of the MP, because the MP must not speak, at least he must not say what he would like, but the insult of the MPs is absolutely inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62216	People's MPs, except that you deceived the People's Assembly and made mistakes during the reasoning, by not explaining anything that there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you misused the right to receive a word based on a member who provides us all with the right to get word that we were talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a reminder that I'm bound by the same article. When I apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I apply them as they say. The word has been given by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62217	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today passing a very important law aimed at strengthening the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, a law introducing order and a law strengthening the state administration. We are indeed in a very responsible business of strengthening and building the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. This is a law that we'll all be proud of in the future, because it's a law that, I say once again and I underline, builds the institutions of this country. The next day, both in five years, and in six years, and in ten years, many will be proud when the provisions of this law are applied in practice, and because of this law, which we are passing today, they get answers to many questions and when we have a country according to European standards, according to the size of a Serbian citizen, we will have a sense of pride that we have done an important job. Of course, when we talk about the state administration, there is no serious state administration without depolicing the state administration, without its professionalization, but above all and without material security, because people need to be stimulated for the work they do and that they know that they are doing the best and the most honest they can, know and know that they are adequately rewarded for this job, because no one is going to go to the state administration. Today, it is difficult to meet the criteria for inspection, for management, for administrative inspection, because these legal solutions are not easy at all, which prescribe what all men need to meet in order to be in administrative inspection. Someone with such experience will certainly find it easier to find a job in the private sector, which will pay much better for such knowledge and such a profession. Of course, there's been a lot of trouble from the opposition on this bill and we've heard the criticism of the law, but we haven't heard a single solution. I understand the criticism that says – okay, this legal provision is wrong, but let's hear what's right, what's better. Is it better to have no administrative inspection, or is it better to have an administrative inspection? We have also heard the objections of certain people from the opposition to the various items of this law, the various views of this law. Some say -- you see, new costs are now being introduced. Well, there are no new costs and I don't believe that 20-30 people will represent any cost, but therefore the benefit for Serbian citizens will be much greater than their engagement, their professional and professional work. They say they'll have clothes, uniforms, shoes. They will have, but surely it will not happen as it has happened in the past, that one of the ministers first assigns to himself a uniform he will never wear, so two pairs of shoes are assigned to himself, and only if he remains an inspection. We had such cases in practice in Serbia, when some people in charge of certain inspections prescribed uniforms for these inspections, work clothes, shoes, and then first assigned them to themselves. Now they're talking about past work experience, so they expect someone to behave like that. There is no such behaviour in Serbia anymore. The state administration in Serbia is responsible for the citizens of this country, according to the laws of this country, but above all for the morality that we are all building together. There have also been objections to whether in our power this law applies to all parts and territories of the Republic of Serbia. There are opposition people who wake up every day and wonder where Serbia's borders are, how many municipalities do we have, how many cities do we have, how many provinces? You can't deal with politics if you don't know what defines the Constitution. The constitution clearly defines where our borders are. The constitution clearly defines how many municipalities we have and how many provinces we have. Who doesn't know, he shouldn't wake up every morning and ask the crowned heads where Serbia's borders are, so they won't answer him. If you don't know that, go home and rest and let the work do the people who know it. We know where Serbia's borders are. Every part of Serbia is equally fond of us, but above all, we prefer people living in Serbia, because there is no Serbia without people. My friend Mic tells me from the village of Stanice – tell those people there, there is a river here, flowing through our village, Nisha...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62218	People's MP, and I'd like to ask you about the agenda or the story with Nisav to link it to the Administrative Inspectorate Act. I would also ask other MPs not to receive the MP Zoran Popovic, especially no offensive expressions, as well as the MP Momir Markovic. (Momir Markovic, from the place: What did I say? To say hello to Mica. Now you're throwing again, so please don't do that. This is a warning, and then there is a warning measure. Thank you. Here you go, MP, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62219	So, this law is being implemented in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and this law is being passed in order to apply it in every municipality, in every city, because Serbia is in those constitutional frameworks prescribed by the Constitution, law and international law. Of course, there were comments, we remember various discussions in this assembly hall, when some MPs sitting very close to me here cried out that they were bothered that the SO Presevoviori flag of Serbia, which was torn up, like this and like this. Thanks to this law, the flag of Serbia will flutter as Serbia's flag should look. There were sentences that we employed over 200,000 people in government authorities. Mr. Milan Markovic unequivocally said that the number of people working in government authorities is 24,000, ten times less than some claim. We were demagoguely accusing ourselves that after October 5th, the state administration was greatly increased. It is ignored that by taking over some of the responsibilities from the SRJ, when we parted with Montenegro, we received a lot of new responsibilities that we are doing. So, I can tell you, when we pass laws, we pass laws whose power is established by the Constitution, and limited by freedom and the rights of citizens. We make laws that last after us, which we will be proud of. We pass laws that one day, when someone reads worse in the Serbian Parliament library in a hundred years' time, they will say -- our ancestors did a good job, they built the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. The institutions of the Republic of Serbia were doing their job under the law, so the law was enforceable in practice. We don't need the law to make life better, nor idealize it, but we need the law for the sake of this future reality and it as such contains the will of the majority, and that will of most people has always been, in all times, in all societies, stronger than the will of individuals. In the end, I just want to say that this is just another law that we are passing, not because someone is forcing us to live in an orderly society, in a regulated state, where the law is respected by individuals and by institutions, and where everyone knows where the lower limit of the law is, where everyone knows that the law is not passed so that someone from the ruling majority can be employed by a party army, but that the law is passed so that all party armies are subject to the letter of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62220	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Jorgvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62221	I will continue my story on the draft law on administrative inspection, as a good start to something we all verbally advocate, to achieve a better quality state administration. I want to say that I think that this indisputable application of administrative inspection on the ground could be translated by a colloquial language to that that all those who implement the laws are "not cheating" by those small percentages that are not deliberately, but perhaps accidentally left in the law, not by those small doors that they carry on certain and only some, but that those unseen situations and those cracks in the law are so defined, whether opinions, whether or not I demand to amend and supplement, whether they are the result of one such inspection, where they are determined by the record, and later translated into correction or more precise interpretation of the law, but in any case, I mean under this uncontested law, under the loss of the discretionary law. Why do I insist on that? I'll tell you about my closest matter, and it's on the financial system. A crisis that since 2007, just like a crisis of financial capitalism, is something that is clapping on both us and not that is often an excuse for us, but it is our reality, is exactly the crisis that was created on the abuse of information addressed. So it's about financial capitalism that doesn't have an occasional crisis, he's in a constant crisis. Why? The job of the financial system to collect savings for those who can achieve it and to place it in the most profitable sectors and to earn the highest profit for the savings holders in the most profitable sectors. But what's going on? These representatives of financial capitalism, because they are directed, create an artificial enthusiasm for the ability to earn in some areas, expecting others to invest that savings under promise and profit, and then the financial sector itself is drawn out of it, leaving someone else's savings, but also some investors completely without profit, not only without faith in the financial sector, but leaving the entire societies in the downs and financial crisis. Many theorists, practitioners and philosophers, including Jacques Talia, who is the founder of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, who says it is simply impossible for the financial sector to provide itself with such profits and without any production of newly created value and that the whole economy suffers. How is this translated into administrative inspection and law enforcement? Those directed, which create an artificial enthusiasm that savings can be invested and that earns everyone, in the application of the law, is most often abused, and not by employees, it is done by the owners of the sent information, those who know where that little door can be passed, so the privilege of knowing, not the man who can enable it, but by the fact that someone can tell you "no, I didn't break the law," but you realize that it wasn't done in the right way. In order to avoid these abuses and not employed, these bankers, analysts, but also lawmakers who currently represent the state can serve such a law and, without any mediators, provide themselves with a privileged position. We are witnessing this through numerous processes and privatisation and reaching attractive land for construction, demolition, and construction. If anything bothers the people, the old people say, "It's not a little wrong for him, it's wrong for him." So it's not a problem for the people if we all have fewer, but it's a problem that there's an injustice in which some conscious thing makes someone make money, and no one can make money until someone loses. So the administrative inspection must be the top of a political pyramid that can prevent that kind of abuse that compromises both the political party, the political system and society as such. I am convinced that there are such people in this country, but they used their knowledge only for themselves, many of them are in some research processes, judicial proceedings, but not all of them are enough. I expect the administration to contribute. In particular, when we talk about administrative inspection, I'm going to repeat that you have to specify in Article 3 that administrative inspection cannot in any way control the work of the courts, the prosecution and the D.A.'s office. We intervened in Article 2, where we added the word of the administration to "service" means that it is understood that it can control the inspection of the service and the courts, the prosecutions, the defences etc., but cannot control the work of the court itself, because Article 2 is so formulated that it can be interpreted by a grammar interpretation by someone so implies that the inspection can also control the work of courts, defences, etc. We think it would be necessary to make that clear, so that someone doesn't have the ambition to control it too. We also intervened in article 10 on school preparation, where it is prescribed by a member of your 84th Law on State Administration, Mr Markovic, that he may be authorised to conduct a administrative procedure only by a civil servant who has acquired a second-degree higher education, or completed master's studies. It's okay. That's why it's not exactly in line with your law to prescribe that for the administrative inspector's affairs, there can be enough education for a four-year basic study, even less that such a person can be the chief inspector. So, if administrative procedures can only be conducted by officers who have a calling master, it's difficult to be controlled by those above them. If, by the Ministry's interpretation, look, check, I won't argue. In Article 11, we put forward a proposal regarding official ID. The purpose of the official ID is not to prove the rights and duties, but to prove the official property, in this case a very administrative inspector. That is why we have proposed that those words be deleted in this Article because they are completely unnecessary. We also believe that administrative inspection should absolutely not have a special uniform. So they're not cops who legitimize citizens and they don't necessarily have a recognizable look, maybe they shouldn't even have a recognizable look. Also, expenses, etc., crisis, I won't explain it, especially the additional reason why this should be adopted. Furthermore, in line with the adoption of this amendment, the need to adopt another sublaw, which is in accordance with that section of the regulation that you are talking about, disappears. In Article 16, where public security is discussed in work, respect, we particularly treat the respect of the party's duty to notify and give an opinion on the application of laws and other acts and any other obligations in relations with parties, so we define point 1. Why? We feel that it is really necessary to inform the party in the process and to give an opinion on the application of laws and other rules, because these obligations are often not respected by the authorities of the state administration. I'm sorry, ma'am, maybe we're somewhere similar in the years, remember earlier practice, when an opinion is adopted, so everyone can use it, and now some practice has established that an opinion requires one legal person, one party, and because of some small fee, that opinion can only be applied to that case and that request. Then you need those opinions for, she says, small cracks, dilemmas, publish and give instructions that tomorrow someone can't say – that wasn't precise enough, I figured it out like this. Whoever's in charge of giving that opinion should give it to him. In Article 17. Proposal, we have proposed mandatory respect for public competitions, and in attitude 2 we have given little and to the Assembly a job that is otherwise defined, and on the issue of bodies whose members are elected by the National Assembly. So we should especially point out that the subject of control should be to conduct public competitions. We all know that there are serious doubts that this is not respected and that the procedure is being bypassed, most gently said. We believe that there should be control where the competition is conducted, but it is pure form, because there are many cases where you do not exercise the essential control that is with those who are close to me, so they know the economy, which means the essential correctness of the accounting document. Something formal can be right and formally satisfied, but in essence these conditions are not respected, so let's repeat that example – man has experience and knowledge and professional exams and everything else, but it never goes away, and he knows that some less quality personnel are being received. (Suleyman Spaho: I see ministers listening to your coalition partner. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62222	I ask the People's Messenger of Sulaiman Spah not to throw away, nor to disturb the session of the National Assembly. I warn you, People's Messenger, and after that I will be forced to give you a warning. (Suleyman Spaho: That's my minister as well as yours. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62223	The authorities, whose members are elected by the National Assembly, are state authorities and their independence and independence from the government, are clear as the executive authorities. (President: National MP Suleiman Spaho, please do not continue to disrupt the order at the session of the National Assembly. If you want me to continue to express the warning measures on the basis of article 108, I am at your disposal, but the order of the session will be, I am obliged to do so in Article 27. Excuse me, MPs, but this is one way I can react. ) When it comes to that part, okay, there is no need to mix administrative inspection, but they have services, employees, they have the status of civil servants. There is room for administrative inspection and should be included in the most direct, most defined in the work of these organs. As an example, these authorities can serve the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. These authorities have their own services, their employees have the status of civil servants and therefore it is necessary for you to have the authority to control the application of the regulations and in these bodies whose members are elected by the National Assembly. We don't question the members of the commission themselves, but the services and their employees must. Why should they differ? Article 29, we have come to the record when the administrative inspector makes up the record of the surveillance carried out and we expect that the findings of the factual situation with the description of the illegality, irregularity and lack of work are entered and that the order to take measures, to remove these actions, if necessary, shall be indicated, that the report shall be drawn up on the spot during the exercise of supervision and delivered to the supervisory authority. We eliminate the possibility of an agreement, it's not clearing up meetings with the DRI, so on the spot and immediately meeting the manager, and it can be delivered to the state authority that oversees the work of the supervised authority. For example, over the directorate of civil aviation, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, etc., the one to whom he is responsible for work. Then the government can't say -- you know, they have a specific status, so we don't know what they're doing, what kind of prices they brought in, etc. I think this is extremely in place. You yourself know that this is how the inspection procedure, as you have defined it, must contain this element for this number of users in order to justify its purpose. In Article 30, we have provided for an amendment where we have given the supervisor of the supervisory authority the right to make observations in writing, so if he is professional, he understands his job, he can immediately comment on the inspector's remarks and that he can do so within three days of receiving the minutes. The inspector is obliged to consider these objections and, if necessary, to supplement inspection actions, as errors occur, they are all living people. The administrative inspector shall decide on those objections to the minutes by means of a solution. That is what we have said – the record cannot be a basis for appeal, but a solution. Since I said that in a proper debate, I won't say it again. I want to point out one more thing. In Article 32, we asked for an amendment that an appeal could be made against the administrative inspector's decision to the Ministry of State Administration within eight days and we said that the appeal did not retain the execution of the solution. You're aware that you've provided for article 32 to file a complaint with the Chief Inspector. Kadiya's suing you. That's contrary to Article 216. The law on administrative procedure where two-stage resolution is prescribed where jurisdiction within the same authority cannot be determined. Please check, article 216. The law on administrative procedure. In Article 35, we also had amendments that we are proposing that the administrative inspector have an obligation to propose to the supervisory authority how to generalise an act that is incompatible with the law. That's the real point of control. So, not to find the culprit, not just to punish him, but to bring the observed irregularities into line with what's called the compliance of the legal system. We believe that this proposal, not the obligation, can certainly help the supervised authority, I am talking about Article 35 in Section 1, Section 2, after Article 2. If the administrative inspector has assessed that the general act is not in accordance with the law, he proposed, as we are proposing, that the amendment be brought into line with the law, that the supervised body did not do so within the time limit set, we propose the obligation of the administrative inspector instead of the possibility, means not the possibility but the obligation to submit to the main administrative inspector an initiative to submit a proposal for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of such an act. We think it's completely in place. In Article 36, where an opportunity is given and not an obligation on the inspector to request a report from the authority, we expect it to be the right if he assesses the foundation of the play. At the very end, a technical one, but if we are a country and you are an executive and we are a legislative authority, I simply want one part of the rules that we apply to the writing of laws and amendments and as regards the instructions made by the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly and adopted the unique methodological rules for the making of regulations where the regulations are defined, among other things, that the use of foreign words is reduced to the lowest possible extent, to the necessary, where Article 33 says: "Sside words can only be used if there are no appropriate words in Serbian language". I hope that we will all agree that the word "directory", the New Latin, the English word "derive", which is just translated as a manual, a regulation, a rule of keeping on a matter, a direction of work and guidance. We have decided on the word "route" instead of saying "directory" as a sublegal act, since it is something that is the methodology of a single process, that is to say a control record, so we believe that this sublaw act should be called that. So, this and this detail, don't say it's petty, you deserve the quality of the reasoning and the access to this law, and just so you understand these remarks that have been made to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62224	It's been used 20 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62225	I really can only thank you, because I consider this discussion truly to help make this law better than it is now. One part of the amendment will obviously be accepted, I can say it now, without analysis, and one part of the amendment seems to me that we won't, but we'll try to explain it to you to understand why we won't. But anyway, thank you in general for the effort you've made. It is a legislative activity and simply can never only be one party to judge well, especially when it comes to laws that do not go to a wider public debate. When laws go to a wider public debate, it's much easier, but those who don't go to a wider public debate, this means a lot. I really thank you very much for this discussion you've had.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62226	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. After him is the word of the Messenger of the people Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62227	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has examined the proposal for this law to which the MPs of the SRS have tabled a number of amendments and highlighted certain objections and objections, which is exactly what the SRS disagrees with. Article 2 gives rise to a form of supervision and work for the implementation of laws and other regulations, as well as to the competences on which the work of the Administrative Inspectorate will be based? What we're noticing is that we think this is too wide and that it's coming out of maybe the framework of the administrative bodies, especially when it comes to the judiciary. I don't know how much this particular judiciary can find that an administrative inspector and administrative inspection can carry out certain controls and surveillance, but, if necessary, it should have been exclusively with courts and some other entities that will be supervised to say that it is in accordance with, only control, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, administrative right or as they call it, the administrative right is a special branch of the law that makes up legal norms relating to the administration, regulating its activity. The administrative right does not have a specific and precise substance that would clearly characterise the branch and not arise under the influence of specific legal relations, such as criminal or family law, inheritance and others. This is a right of younger origin, and it only appeared in the 19th century. In order to develop as a specific branch of law, it was not enough to regulate administration and administrative activity by laws and other legal regulations, but rather to develop the specificities of administrative and legal matters. Negatively speaking, it was not enough for the administration to be subject to general legal regulations. For administrative law, it is not possible to specify characteristic features which would make it meaningfully different from other branches of law. The administrative right of large parts has been broken and scattered in large numbers of so far smaller laws and other sublaws. In a political sense, the right of state authority, and in a negative right to defend against the state and its borders, is the right to individual rights. Hence, it is the political right, of political interest and images of a particular socio-political system. When it comes to the bill, I would like to point out some of the facts that would apply to the administrative authorities. The administrative authorities, their position and structure are a special type of state body and form an integral part of the structure of the government. They are entrusted in principle to perform administrative functions, but in certain systems they can perform other functions. Their position and roles in various systems vary, depending on their authority or other factors. There are different types of administrative bodies, given the different criteria – central and local, i.e. regional and incoherent, collegiate, etc. Administrative authorities can be more or less political, or bureaucratic. Relations between them can be more or less based on the principle of hierarchy or on the principle of centralism or decentralisation. When it comes to administrative inspection and administrative procedure, the administrative procedure is in fact a set of rules governing the conduct of the authorities of the administration and other state bodies, when administrative matters directly apply the rules governing the rights and obligations of individuals, legal persons and other parties. This procedure, under the rules of the administrative procedure, is also required to be followed by institutions and organisations when, on the basis of the powers conferred on them by law or regulation adopted under public service law, they decide on the rights and obligations or legal interests of individuals and legal persons or other parties. Ladies and gentlemen, as is known, there are two types of administrative procedure, general administrative procedure and special administrative procedure. The general administrative procedure covers rules governing the handling of the largest number of bodies and organisations in the resolution of administrative disputes in general. The general administrative procedure was regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is the federal law that was passed before and the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was amended and complemented in the meantime. Specific administrative procedures regulate the handling of only certain types of bodies in certain administrative matter in the field of customs duties, in the areas of taxes, in the areas of foreign exchange, social security, protection of wartime wartime persons, social accounting, earlier than that of certain types of inspections, etc. The general administrative procedure in relation to specific administrative procedures has an additional character, which means that the rules of the general administrative procedure are applied to administrative substances for which a special administrative procedure is prescribed, and in matters which are not laid down by the rules on special administrative procedure. When it comes to the bill, it has not precisely defined nor norms nor provided for certain principles. The principles of the administrative procedure are - the principle of legality, the principle of material truth, the principle of hearing parties, the principle of free assessment of evidence, the principle of independence in resolution, the principle of law of appeal, the principle of justice of solution, the principle of economicity of the procedure, the principle of helping the ignorant party, the principle of party law and other participants to use the mother tongue in the administrative procedure. It is here in this law and mentioned in the administrative procedure that participants are, therefore, as the law here provides, state authorities, institutions and organisations competent to conduct administrative proceedings, secondly, parties and their representatives. Mr. Minister, you're a lawyer by profession, but I didn't see here that in this procedure the parties were given the right to be able, according to the Constitution, to hire a representative, or lawyer, in certain cases, which should have been envisaged as an opportunity, to have the right to an attorney and representative of the first mandatory participants, perhaps this should have been more precise and clearer. In addition to these mandatory participants in the administrative procedure, more witnesses, witches, interpreters, and random participants may appear as participants. The administrative procedure shall be initiated and initiated by the competent authority, the state authority, or the authorised institution, in the particular case proposed, until now and prescribed by the Administrative Procedure Act. However, we are now passing a law that will produce certain consequences that will not be easily applicable, but that it has gone too far into many structures of society and has taken certain powers into its own hands, to address many issues, both natural and legal. Therefore, the administrative procedure shall be initiated under official duty by the competent national authority or at the request of the parties. What is also important to note is that great powers are given by this law to the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate. Secondly, there will be a problem resolution in the second instance of the party's complaint being supervised, as the constitution provides for an appeal, but the question is whether it is appropriate for the Chief Inspector to issue an order to his inspector, lower by rank, to carry out the supervision of an institution and to make that inspector a decision to impose measures and that the supervised authority declares an appeal and that the complaint is resolved by the Chief Inspector. It's not in accordance with the Constitution, nor with the legal rules, nor with parallel law, because I haven't found a case like this anywhere. Mr. Minister, can you tell us in which state, is this so regulated in France, Germany, that the Chief Inspector can decide according to the solution and the decision of his lower inspector to whom he has given the order to exercise supervision and to take such a measure? Furthermore, if it adopts a solution to a supervised inspector or chief inspector in a specific case, this is a second situation, then the appeal is resolved by the minister or was smarter and more correct – it solves the ministry in charge or perhaps it was necessary to provide for and prescribe that the citizen has the right to initiate administrative proceedings before the competent administrative court. It is now a thing that may or may not be, but in any case, it would be in the general interest of our citizens, if they could use certain legal means and legal remedies, but in the process, beyond the decision-making body, or solutions in a specific case. So, in practice, there will be major problems and there will be major objections and it was better that it could not be resolved by the Chief Inspector, but could be solved by the commission, and the commission should be behind such a decision. This much authority to give to the Chief Inspector is very dangerous and very problematic. You see, in accordance with the Law on Administrative Procedure and Administrative Act, there is also a administrative judiciary. In any event, this administrative judiciary should resolve the contested complex cases so as not to be damaged in a specific case. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, there will be words, but we think that the principles of the administrative procedure must have been contained in these ten principles that I have stated. They had to find places specifically, precisely in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62228	It's been used 13 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62229	This was one quite extensive exposure, but first of all, I don't know if it was a lapus or if you weren't following, let's say, the last six or seven years that had changed laws and in which direction. So the administrative procedure cannot be initiated before the administrative court. (Petar Jojic, from the post: It could be predicted. I can't believe what you're saying to me. To provide for administrative proceedings to be brought before the administrative court? (Petar Jojic, from the post: A citizen could be predicted to protect his rights. ) The administrative procedure cannot be initiated before the administrative court. (Petar Jojic, from the post: Administrative dispute. The administrative dispute is something else entirely. That's why I'm saying it was a lapus. I've known you long enough. You just confused me. This issue is constantly -- who decides on the appeal, it is something that was resolved as a system law by the state administration law in 2005. It's a complete repeat of that. Three, four years we've had the same dispute over the appeal. The Law on State Administration states that it is decided by the minister, when it comes to the ministry, when it comes to the administration's body within the ministry, by the director of the body. You have to understand we can't. My opinion is we shouldn't go beyond what we call system law in the jargon. In that sense, we cannot put the ministry to decide something. We could if the system law had predicted it and it was probably before that, I really don't, I guess you know better, since you worked in the ministry, but it's impossible now, and because I have to tell you right now that insistence on it is impossible. As far as the Law on General Administrative Procedure is concerned, this law states that it is applicable and that the Law on Administrative Procedure is important to us. God forbid our ministry is trying to edit like, unfortunately, a large number of special procedures arranged, which you've noticed well, and I think it's a shame. I have now heard that the latest in Croatia, that they have started working intensively to return special procedures to the general framework, i.e. the General Administrative Procedure Act. I think it's a very good thing for safety, because citizens know in advance what's waiting for them, etc. They are now returning a large number of proceedings within the framework of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I simply had to intervene here and correct this lapus that you yourself said was a coincidence and intervened regarding the ministry, because it was all prescribed by article 59, which is now in charge of resolving the appeal. So we just stuck to it. This isn't some interpretation of us. We stuck to what we were given by system law back in 2005. Don't slow down the arguments you're making, just so you understand why this is written, it says because it's supposed to be in 2005 and we can't run out of it, and it's not good to get out of it. Anyway, thank you for the many other things you've said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62230	Thank you. MP Petar Jojic, do you want to speak after the injury of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. National MP Mirko Minjic, in that case, has a word, followed by SretoPeric. (Petar Jojic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. It is quite clear, if you follow the debate, that there is no right to replication. MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62231	Mr. Minister, when the assembly majority votes this bill, and I'm sure they'll vote it in this form or with some changes, I'm also sure that nothing new will solve it and nothing special in this area. The supervision of law enforcement, as well as the conduct of the authorities of the state administration, the conduct of the courts, then the prosecution, of the conduct of the Republic Public Attorney's Office, of the Service of the National Assembly, of the service of the President of the Republic, of the Government, as well as of the Constitutional Court, which covers the proposed norms of this legal project, which is here before us, is certainly not going to lead to some epochal newspapers in this area. Namely, this matter, as you yourself said this morning, was regulated in the 1970s and 1980s, by a law that was in the same name as this one, and after that it was idolized by the Law on State Administration in 1993, which regulated this matter, so it is normal that there is no vacuum in this area. But I wanted to say something else. It's very important here, when it comes to this matter, to find one real balance between two questions. First, between ensuring the very supervision of the work of the state administration authorities and those with public authority, on the one hand, while safeguarding the independence and independence of certain authorities. I think finding that balance is something that is very important, and that the norms that you have predicted and translated into this bill simply don't guarantee it, they don't guarantee that there will be real relationships and real balances between these two things that I've said. Why don't they guarantee it? First, too many potential supervised organs, 28 grand. This excessive number points to one fact that they will not all simply physically cannot be adequately processed in the process of administrative inspection. No way. So, as soon as they can't all be, they'll normally be some by application, etc. But I'm sure everyone won't be. As soon as everyone cannot be adequately processed, there is already a possibility of a selective application of this law. You want to admit it or not, but that's right. As soon as something selective is applied, there are opportunities for corruption, there are possibilities for some things we've seen many times, when it comes to you. The other thing to say here is a really chaotic situation in the organs that are future subjects of inspection surveillance. I don't know which authority of the state administration, courts, prosecutors, the republican public defender's office, the government, the Constitutional Court could now single out and say – well, he's good, that's a good body, that's the body where there's no corruption, where law enforcement is properly implemented. Unfortunately, none of these listed organs can say that, but it's not just what I can't tell you, it's normal, I'm a representative of the opposition, and I can't tell you that, but I just can't tell you that either, your friends from the EU. They show you at the same time that in all these organs there are all these things I said, there is corruption, there is disrespect of the law, there are irregularities in work etc. But what particularly merits attention is the fact that you go through this like it's all right, like everything's perfect. That self-lovingness with you in power, especially with this government over the past three, three and a half years really has no limits. It's human to admit the truth of the situation in this area. Earlier in this morning's presentation, the minister touched in one, two sentences of this topic – what is the specific situation in this area that is regulated by this law. He said the situation was extremely problematic, now, whether it was the legacy of the last government or the last one, for us it's all the same, we know it. However, I continue to argue that it is necessary for the minister and for all of you of the ruling majority to simply tell the truth. This is what the citizens of Serbia expect you to tell the truth here and here, to the MPs, and to tell the truth and to the citizens of Serbia. You know, that truth isn't something that hurts a lot. Even the emperors used to tell the truth. And the emperors used to love those who tell the truth. You know that story, I'm just going to tie it to this subject, about this truth that you're supposed to represent here, in order to adequately, in the right way, all together solve this situation. When Emperor Herod was small in his day, so the truth was presented to him that he would be very cruel...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62232	People's MP, Emperor Herod and the bill of administrative inspection, I'm really asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62233	In the context of the truth that you have to say and to represent here when it comes to administrative inspection, it's really something that we haven't heard from you, which we haven't heard from the minister when he explained it. On the one hand, general chaos exists in the authorities of the state administration and other bodies that are potential subjects of inspection control, and on the other, too many of these entities. Again, on the third hand, you in Article 33. The bill, when implementing the solution, you predict that the administrative inspector can, but only he can, does not have to, to control the execution of that solution that he has made. Look, you don't do what you like to do to a management inspector, so now you're saving it. It's just part of the norm that I think represents a front to prevent further harassment of the untouchable in this country. Imagine, for example, the situation of an administrative inspector now staying in control of some of the services, now come on, the Prime Minister or the President of the State, will he also be in charge of controlling these services? Normally, he finds some irregularities in the work of that service and he makes a solution. He can't control it now, do you think he'll dare go into control of his solution at all? It won't be safe. You had to predict, that's where we responded with the amendment that the administrative inspector must control the execution of his solution, the solution he made. Furthermore, you have provided Article 29 for the possibility that the administrative inspector may record the inspection to also deliver to the State authority responsible for the work of the supervised authority, again, but not necessarily. In Article 31, you did not even predict that the decision made to deliver to the higher authority, therefore, to the authority above the supervised authority. Now it can happen, gentlemen of the government, that a state body that is directly higher and is responsible for the work of the supervisory authority, in particular, does not know at all about the irregular and illegal behaviour of the body for whose work is responsible. You do not deliver a solution, for example, to the Prime Minister, and you have controlled a service and simply the Prime Minister or the President of the State has been denied information about what the one under it simply has done illegally or incorrectly. Why did you do that? Why don't you deliver a mandatory solution to the senior authority? I think that needs to be fixed. There are many other things the SRS has responded to with its amendments. We haven't heard the right data as to how many new administrative inspectors will be employed. We have seen that the chief administrative inspector is chosen not by competition but by other means. We think it was necessary to make it a competition. How will they choose and set up other administrative inspectors we haven't seen here? You can't see it from the bill. There are other things that Mr. Minister said this morning, which is that he is currently 18, is that right, that even a double number of inspectors won't be able to do this. Since there are 28 entities to be monitored. I don't think there's gonna be a much larger number, if you really want to do it honestly and in the right way. In view of all that you have passed through these norms in this law, it is clear to us that neither this law nor many before it will really find its application in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62234	It was used 11 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Sreto Peric has the word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic, and he was last registered on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, administrative law is a specific legal discipline, quite abstract and difficult to code. So I'm not going to tell you -- one law is passed, or you're proposing one law, and the work of the administrative inspection will be regulated by about 30 laws. This is precisely because of the abstractity of administrative law and the inability to create one codification. How are you in government? Because in this country, the most necessary laws and parades are. Yeah, we're in favor of the law, too. To make a priority of the moment we are in and give priority to the adoption of such laws. Here, I'll just remind you of a law passed by this Parliament. The Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments was laid down for one census, and then for lack of funds or other reasons, not to enter that matter, the law on amendments and additions to the law was re-enacted and the list was said to take place from October 1st to October 15th. We're officially still making a list. I'm not saying it needs to be interrupted, but what are the preconditions, what is done to make it within the time limit. Later on, when I speak, specifically about some of the provisions of this law, you will see that certain things are not given attention. Much better and better to take care of the conditions at which we live, to process what can be done, to employ those who cry and wait for work, which does not mean that laws should not really be passed, but that they are applicable. We've often argued very often, which is why some laws aren't good. You didn't have enough hearing to hear it, and after practice, it denied you and showed that we were right and that it was meant to be done. Now I don't want to, and I could argue that as an opposition MP, but it's not the point in arguing everything there is. The point is, and we are working as MPs of the SRS on behalf of the citizens we represent, we propose those solutions that are acceptable and that are good for them. Up until now, 18 administrative inspectors have done the work of the Administrative Inspectors. From the transitional provisions where the funds for the work of the Administrative Inspectorate are projected by the end of this year, you go with new funds. The minister in line with this law said the inspectorate would only be formed when another government was formed. Now we don't know if those funds are going to be spent, whether they're going to be targeted for the work of the Administrative Inspectorate or not? It doesn't matter. I'm absolutely sure, here, that I'm not contesting your employment right now, who's gonna be your employee? The minister said, as his associates, you confirmed in two three attempts at the competition, that they were only accepted, I think, by two administrative inspectors. This will be about because they were not members of certain political parties. Although Minister Markovic held back, it seems to me, his associates who had been proposed earlier than some other governments. Seems to me like it's pretty much the same or pretty much the same. In order for this number of administrative inspectors, and so I want to believe you, that your goal is to make the state administration more efficient, to protect the public interest, and the public interest of this society should be what is individual law, the Constitution provides for a party that appears before the authorities of the state administration. In order for this number to be able to do the job in quality or at least to the extent that I, as a national MP, expect it to be, it was necessary for at least seven conditions to be met by the state administration. Now I'm going to say which, and so are the citizens and you, of course, I know which of these conditions are met. The independence of the state administration, how independent is it? Legality in conduct, we don't need to talk about what the situation is like. Professionality, expertise is mixed. We have organs where we have professional people and where there is no and the way of employment and reception is very debateable. Unbiasedness, political neutrality, today, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, no one can say that they are employed by the authorities of the state administration, to the greatest extent, politically neutral and undefined. Of course not. It is not disputed and belongs to a particular political party, but professional responsibility must be professional and work on the basis of the Constitution and the law and how one of the debaters said, which was only, in my opinion, good - we are passing laws to apply to all. That's exactly what we're trying to do. Someone here says that when we pass and adopt this law, then the flag in Bujanovac, Presheva and Bear will be as it should be. I'm sure he won't. There is not enough power and there is not enough political will in this government, in the competent authorities of the Serbian state to do so. The proportionality and respect of parties, is this in practice respected and implemented? Of course not. Our colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic, as an authorised representative of the SRS, told you on this subject and on this issue what kind of relationship the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have when they should go to achieve some of their laws provided for by law and the public in the work. I've put out a minimum of what the state administration should respect, and that the ministry responsible for the state administration should fight so hard to do so. Perhaps this number of inspectors that you are now predicting and designing, after the law is passed, could accomplish its function and perhaps be able to do something to control it. But since it's not like that, it won't be. What would they have to do to help the administrative inspection so he could do his job in quality? Since there are other kinds of controls, which is political, which we've already talked about, it has to be expressed as much as possible. The best example of not being like that is this Parliament. Political control is lagging behind and gone. The social control, the public information trustee to the extent that he can do his job, and finally, the legal or administrative control we're talking about, it should be about those cases where these previous controls, and not talking about that original auto-conroll, the control by an employee who should be responsible for performing his duties and being politically neutral, being professional, being depolitic in the authority of the state administration, then this number of perpetrators and the administrative inspection might be able to do the job in quality. Then we get a government official complaining about things being hired, things going on out there, they don't meet the conditions. Let's find a man at the Shop who will meet the conditions to conduct an administrative procedure, with an expert exam, etc. Find him. Well, it's not the whole of Serbia Old Town, people. This law doesn't solve one big problem. What would be the difference if an administrative inspection at a health care facility checked the status of employees and that inspection carried out by a health inspection? Well, all state inspection bodies shall also verify the status of employees and the organisation of a state body or a para-state body applying the general administrative procedure, control the application and compliance of the General Administrative Procedure Act. And this is where it stands out, so that we can re-legitize how we've all agreed. Here's an example, when you cross this pawn park, on April 30, 2001, the police took the jeep. The administrative procedure, seven times in the Supreme Court, received an administrative dispute, was ordered to return the jeep. Let's have the administrative inspector go to Lermont's to check the first degree of action and go to Dacic now that he's a second-degree body, so apply the rules of good administration. You'd be arrested. They'd slap you, kick you out. Another example, since we are on the ground - administrative procedure, administrative matter and administrative dispute, potential. Why don't you give protection to the citizens of the village of Vreoci?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62236	People's MP, we're not in the field of administrative dispute, so I'm asking you on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62237	I'd like to ask you to distract the mind of the reasoning of this bill. In light of the bill's proposal, you don't have to believe me, it states that there should be an organized service to control the law. State administration's behaviour for public and private good. Now I'm talking about a conflict of public and private goods and I'm asking – why didn't the administrative inspection come out to exercise control? Let me remind you that you know what subject it is. So, in accordance with the regulations, citizens have started a administrative dispute...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62238	National MP, administrative procedure, not administrative dispute. There's a difference, so I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62239	I'd just like to ask you to listen to me very carefully...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62240	People's MP, I warn the MPs who do not speak about the subject of the agenda. The powers to interrupt as chairman were used only in that case. Members of the Rules of Procedure who oblige me to impose penalties are known to me, as well as to you. So if I remind you that you need to talk about the agenda, then at the same time I ask you to really talk about the topic of the agenda. In that sense, the only reason I'm interrupting is because of you. So, on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62241	A solution adopted in the administrative procedure and the judgment of the Administrative Court has been abolished and a new administrative procedure has been ordered. Now I get it. So, I'm in the field of administrative matters and administrative proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62242	People's MP, you're talking about a administrative dispute. If you insist, I will begin to apply the members of the Rules of Procedure which mean that I give you the reminders. If you want incidents and if you think that only you are not subject to rules that apply to the other 200 and how many MPs, then I am obliged to remind you that the rules apply equally to everyone during the session of the National Assembly and that there is no idea, that there is no exposure that can be excluded from the rules that are equally prescribed for all of us. So please about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62243	First-degree and second-degree expropriation solutions are adopted in administrative proceedings, brought before administrative authorities, and their final legality is valued by someone else. I don't want to mention him. Why hasn't the administrative inspection carried out how the administrative procedure is carried out when it comes to land expropriation, real estate and the migration of cemeteries in Vreoc, since all arguments on the side of peasants are from that place? It's a public matter a long time ago. She can compare herself to the fact that what would happen, God forbid, that in the territory where the National Assembly is located, there are large amounts of coal down there, would the police then provide for the destruction of the National Assembly building? What do you want the administrative inspection to do? Why isn't he answering? Next, you have the idea of seducing order in respect of respect of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I would fully understand that this bill only prescribed formal procedural aspects of the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. And you made a kind of papazian, mix. At the same time, you insist on centralising inspection surveillance matters when it comes to respecting the administrative procedure, while at the same time the parties of the authorities are in charge of the process of decentralisation, deatisation, decommissioning and not talking any further. And then you give a provision that you can trust these jobs to the city of Belgrade, so you know that the city of Belgrade has, say, the Agency for Audition. They have an audit agency. Do you know that there are so many agencies that, in the description of their work, also have inspection supervision? Can the agency have inspection? Well, you gave most of the votes here. You gave it up. Why are we talking about the stuffed curtain? Here's finally the communal police start chasing down the parks of these puppy-walking dogs, making them put baskets on their mouths. Finally. It wasn't for the public to get up because of these kids who got hurt, and they wouldn't do it, and they're parading. The same has been epochally announced to us -- just to get the communal police, we've solved the issue of illegal construction. Let's see...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62244	People's MP, the law on administrative inspection is, I beg you, it's not the law on the communal police.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62245	Well, well, Mrs. Comic, if you think every two minutes you're interrupting me, you can't be that problem, I'm not mad...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62246	People's MP, if you think that every few minutes you can violate the Rules of Procedure without me listening to it, then you don't mean well. So you do not violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I do not interrupt you, the session runs in accordance with Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62247	Okay. This is a principle debate, and there are broad explanations and comparisons, and they don't bother anything. Remember, you have prescribed this bill that there is the authority of administrative inspection and that it controls para-state authorities, and even those organisations that are not entrusted with the exercise of public authority. It also means "Electro-priority" and "water and sewerage" and "Telecom". That's what you wrote in the bill, that's what it stands for. Could you then, through an administrative inspection, solve a problem that, for example, a director of Elektroprivreda creates for the citizens of a village in the municipality of Ivanica? You can't. There's always a administrative inspection on someone's orders. Let's look each other in the eye. For the past 20 years, has a citizen at the request of an administrative inspection reviewed what kind of administrative procedure has this administrative matter been initiated by a citizen? There isn't. There's no report, there's no record of that. Then what are we talking about? It's not our problem who works in the state administration and how it applies the rules of the general administrative procedure, it's possible that any department chief can get in line. Our problems are when the text message comes, our problems are when the order comes from the height, they're our problems. If you don't believe me, take what this Mr. Tadic wrote. A lot of cases and cases and situations when the administrative inspection had to intervene, and she never intervened. Why? Because it was a text message from a high-ranking official, that thing doesn't touch, and then we're surprised when some television show of investigative journalism comes out, so it shows that it has some history that wasn't so secret, on the contrary, it was pretty public and everyone knew about it in advance. Well, of course, in this country, the most things are handled in administrative proceedings. Of course, but I don't know where you're getting the idea of you controlling the prosecution's office business and the court's when they have more of their own, the state's chief prosecutor's office and the High Council of Justice. That you're in control of how a court case is being seduced or in the D.A.'s office? What good is it for a common man if you say - it's been well seduced, but for 41 years this case has been in court? Last time I waved at you the case of Dragan Obrenovic from Nis, who filed a lawsuit in October 1971, and to this day there is no first-degree verdict. Forty-one years of procedure is under way, and what can the administrative inspection do? Is it registered every two years and got a new number in the register, is that it? We don't need administrative inspection for that. The administrative inspection is no place in court, but the problem is ours to keep quiet and the High Council of the Judiciary, which is also silenced by major prosecutors. Please turn around, so look at Mr. Veljko Odalovic. Why don't you come and check where 369 employees in the National Assembly come from, how is it possible that one referent in the National Assembly receives 50% more salary than Boris Tadic? The papers said, "Let's work it out." Here, Veliko would be grateful, he can't handle it. Solve this problem through the authority of the inspection. That's the problem with us. Here's the text. (President: MP, it's your phone. My phone, Mickey Rakic, calls me, says you've gone too far. (President: By disrupting the mobile phone, only the MPs whose microphone is on can do so. ) It may also be Boris Tadic, perhaps boasting about these 130. (President: Report to me, there may be something important. ) I am counting on government representatives to make appropriate adjustments to this bill, only to appear in a room where 130 years of friendship with the United States is celebrated and to take over their positive experience of good administration. Take good experience, and don't take the experience of bombing, please, that's the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62248	The time available has been used. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) National MP Jovan Palalic, he has a word. Five minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62249	The President-in-Office, I am sorry that Mr. Minister is not here, I wanted to continue the controversy with him, since I was unwarrantedly not given a replica in the morning part of the debate, precisely as to the essence of the dispute between the DSS parliamentary group and the Government of the Republic of Serbia over the law. We have said many times today that the essence of the laws that have been passed is that they are respected and, of course, all their provisions that have been taken over from other laws are consistently implemented. And that is the essence of the problem that we have today when we discuss this law. When I criticised the adoption of this law this morning, I was very specific when I said it was necessary and it was prescribed by the State Administration Act, but I said one more thing that the minister deliberately overlooked in his discussion and that is the essence of the responsibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry have. In addition to Article 45. The Law on State Administration which prescribes the obligation to form an inspection administration, the Ministry and the Government shall have obligations under Article 18(2), namely that inspection supervision is governed by a special law. Who's bound and responsible for the entire state administration? Well, isn't the Department of State and Local Self-Government responsible only for his ministry, and he's just dealing with inspections that are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government? So, gentlemen, you didn't do this job, because all other inspections will now be subject to the provisions of the old law. You took care of only yourself, and you ignored the responsibility of the ministry to take care of the entire system of state administration. That's what we were talking about today. Bring in the first general inspection law, and then, of course, the law on administrative inspection and, of course, the other ministries are passing laws that will regulate inspection in their areas, the other authorities of the state administration. You didn't do the job, that's what I was talking about today, not whether this is an inherited obligation. Of course it is, but it's like step two. Therefore, the ministry must deal with the state administration, not just its own ministry. When we talked about law enforcement, enforcement and law enforcement, we also talked about the Law on the maximum number of employees in state authorities. This law creates the possibility of new employment in state authorities. You derogate this law that we discussed here two years ago, even if the number of employees in the Republic was reduced. Oh, no, now we hire new people. It's the essence of whether or not the law is respected and enforced. Is the Law on State Administration respected, and the obligations you have are carried out, is the Act on the Maximum Number of Employees in State Authorities being implemented and the number of employees is limited, or are you changing that law? Put it out of your hands, then hire new people. That is the essence of what we are talking about here today, that we respect the laws passed by the National Assembly, not that we violate them because every ministry has its own role and desire. When we talked about the dangers, we weren't talking about the need for administrative inspection. We were talking about forming a special inspectorate. Who will now prevent the Ministry of Health and the environment from forming its inspectorates? Can someone stop them after this? They can't. They'll do it themselves. Minister Markovic broke through the ice, great, now we're gonna do it. Of course, then it creates opportunities for new employment. It's not just about employment, it's about the new organization, and it's about new costs. The law is not at the right time, but directly contrary to the Act on the Maximum Number of Employees and is not properly passed, i.e. No law has been passed that had to be passed before and proposed by this ministry, which is the inspection law, which you are bound by Article 18. When you write explanations, I do not agree that the argument is good, be correct, so state Article 18, not just Article 45. When it comes to politicization and depoliticization, that's what we had controversy about today. I agree that the competition has been set up, as the minister said, 140 and some faces since he was the minister, four and a half years from now. But how many positions are there? It's over 400. What about the other places? What about the assistant ministers? We're talking about depoliticization, we don't have to talk about lower officials, we're talking about ministerial assistants who are legally required to choose from the competition. Most of all, I'm not talking about your ministry where this job was done, most of the ministries didn't do that job. People have been placed on party lines, set up, not chosen by competition, and that's the problem. When I mentioned the European Commission report, I mentioned it, of course, in that part that violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly should say, Serbia has no 122 municipalities, but 150 municipalities. This is where Kosovo was deliberately cut off from Serbia in a European Commission report. I was talking about how they are criticizing you and they say – you are hiring without criteria, the influence of politics and the highest level of service has not been resolved so far. That's what I'm talking about right now. More than 200 seats in positions have not been solved. That's the question. Of course, it is not Minister Markovic here, I would ask him to intervene and oppose this European Commission report, which left out Kosovo from the Republic of Serbia by the number of municipalities and autonomous provinces. This is embarrassing, and the National Assembly should object to this, not to boast of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-19-0.u62250	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 96? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would like to take part in the debate, if I may ask you to sign into the electronic system. No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a principled search of the bill and set a break of one hour. We continue our work in the afternoon at 15.45 minutes, by discussing the next item of the agenda, and as I have already informed the People's Assembly we will also work after 18.00 hours. Thank you. THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY (16.05 hours) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs who insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, please do so to determine whether there are any conditions set by the Rules of Procedure for the work of the session of the National Assembly. I find that in the electronic system 86 MPs have inserted their identification cards and another number of MPs are present in the hall, so that there are a Rules of Procedure established conditions for the work of the session of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in its first position that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. I ask – do any of the presidents, authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone who wants to exercise their right under Article 286? Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National Ambassador Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
