ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57989	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that we are 84. However, to determine the exact number of Members present in the hall, please insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic system, we are established at this point in 93, and there are conditions to work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57990	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask more questions as SVM MP on agriculture and I would like to refer questions to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and Mr Dusan Petrovic, Minister of Agriculture, Trade, Water Management and Forestry. The issues concern meteorological opportunities, i.e. elementary disasters affecting Serbia and Vojvodina and whose witnesses we are all witnessing. Unfortunately, we know that there have been severe elemental disasters in Serbia in recent weeks, when very stormy winds and cities have been followed by more municipalities around Serbia and have caused major material damage. Agricultural crops were suffering, and the most destroyed were raspberries and orchards. Agriculture Minister Milos Milovanovic said after a tour of the area affected by the weather, that the assistance the Serbian government will send to the affected municipalities is only the first type of assistance and will follow the second since the municipal commissions with agricultural inspectors are assessing the damage by the end of June. Very soon, the Serbian government adopted a decision to help municipalities with 36.7m dinars, or farmers whose crops were destroyed by the city. The most money has been promised to Ariel, 14 million dinars, as in this area some plantations have been completely destroyed. Aleksincu was promised 8 million, Merošini 7 million, Nisu 4 million, Ivanjica 3 million, and Kruševec 700,000 dinars. It's a good example of how to react, in my opinion, when there are elementary disasters. I'm interested, out of the promised 36.7 million dinars, what is the exact amount that the municipalities in Serbia have received from these elemental disasters by today's date? I'm still interested in what Vršac municipality will get from the government, because there was a city in that municipality, and a huge damage occurred last week. Unfortunately, we haven't heard of that storm in the media. We know well that last year there have been natural disasters in many municipalities due to groundwater in Vojvodina throughout the year. There were major problems in Vojvodina, in the municipalities of Kanjiž, Senta, Ada, Nova Ninja, Temerin, Žitište and Sečanja. Let me just mention some. Houses collapsed in New Montenegro. Some streets were underwater in Temerin. In Ada, the whole town was underwater. As I come from that environment, I am interested in the exact amount of assistance these cities received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia last year, what is that amount? What did those agricultural producers who live and own in these municipalities get from the government? I ask the question – did these municipalities ever get help from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? A year ago I asked the same question about the problem, but unfortunately, there was no adequate answer. In the end, I'm interested in what the government intends to do about protection from the city, since this kind of protection is very important when it comes to agricultural production? I believe that anti-urban protection is necessary, and in order to be even more effective, the state needs to find solutions, to make the protection of agricultural goods even more effective. It must not happen, for example, that there is not enough amount of rockets in the anti-urban stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57991	Thank you. I give my word to MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57992	This question I'm going to ask, I just don't know which address to refer to, and the question has to be asked. It would be best if it were addressed to Boris Tadic's address. But come on, formally, let him go to the address of Mirko Cvetkovic and Vuk Jeremic. The other day was a scandal. During the OSCE meeting in Belgrade, Boris Tadic organised a reception and, for example, no delegations from Algeria and Morocco were released. Someone stopped them at the door and said, "I'm sorry, you're not on the list. Goodbye. Bon appétit. After all the scandals we have heard in this home by some MPs related to the characterisation of African states and African peoples, we have now, of course, received a follow-up to this story, in the light of the protocol of the Serbian President, which decides who is fit and who is unfit to enter his reception. That story isn't just a story of form, it's a story of essence. When we ask ourselves why someone is unsuitable to enter the reception, then we have to look for some answers. It is probably the same answer that brings us to this, that there are countries that are unfit for this parliament to enter the status of a group of friendships, as is the case for the country of Iran, where we have been trying for two and a half years to form a group of friendships with Iran, but thanks to the ruling majority, above all, DS is not possible. Do you know what kind of explanation I got from the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Dragoljub Micunovic? I've been given an explanation that Iran is a non-democratic state. Why? Because he doesn't respect women's rights and has a death sentence. We are in a group of friendships with Saudi Arabia, which does not respect women's rights and has a death sentence, has a body parts cut off as a way of executing criminal sanctions. We're in a group of friendships with the United States that have a death sentence. Where's the criterion? That brings us to the next one. When it comes to Iran, the Council of Europe, the US and the EU have a very negative view of the country, above all, because of the confrontation that exists. When it comes to Algeria and Morocco, the Council of Europe, whose member I am, as a representative and delegate of this assembly, has a positive view because of the changes that took place there. If this is a criterion for which Algeria and Marko are not invited and released at Boris Tadic's reception, then there's something wrong. I think the criteria were next – what is the common characteristics and wounds of Algeria and Morocco? So they're one of the favorites of the West, right now it's Algeria and Morocco, and the other are hated. It's Iran. The common feature is that all three countries did not export Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state. This leads us to conclude that whenever anyone does not recognise Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state, he is not welcome with Boris Tadic. With him, this country doesn't want to establish good relations. Whoever recognizes Kosovo and Metohija is welcome. They establish phenomenal relationships, special relationships, 300 miracles. If someone wants to hold clear dignity, a position on the matter, then he is hostilely welcomed by the top of this country, in particular Boris Tadic. That's the essence of the story here. Who should I ask this question to? To set up the Wolf of Jeremiah. Of course, that's what this is about, nothing else. Let's see a very specific question, who runs a policy like this, who makes these measures, and whose cabinet they are being set up in, to finally let the citizens of Serbia know something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57993	Do any of the other presidents, yes, Mr. Zoran Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57994	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer a parliamentary question to certain competent inspection bodies, and above all to the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, the Public Prosecutor's Office and ask them for information on what will be presented. Since I will not be able to present everything in the time available, I have writtenly asked for answers to the parliamentary question. First of all, it is one of the founders of a veterinary study at the University of Novosad and the first signator of the Elaborata justification for the establishment of the study, I must address these ministries and their inspection bodies, to take certain steps to preserve and protect the studies of veterinary medicine, primarily from the self-will of the Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Novi Sad, Prof. Dr. Milan Krainović, as well as to establish his abuses of office and authority in financial business and asset availability. Studies of veterinary medicine of the University of Novosad began in 2000, in the form of departments of veterinary medicine at the Faculty of Agriculture and School in 2010-2011 at the department of all five years of studies, studying veterinary medicine for about 648 students. According to the number of students, means who are currently studying at the Faculty of Agriculture where the Department of Veterinary Medicine has the highest number of students and of the total number of students at that department is about 22%. In normal circumstances compared to the presented results or facts, it would be expected that the management of the university, and above all, the dean pays adequate attention and that support for that study direction. However, since the time of arrival of 2004 as the Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture Milan Krainovic, the attitude towards veterinary study from year to year has deteriorated, the problems are piling up and the worst students are not given adequate conditions of study, and above all, in performing theoretical practice and clinical exercises. Also, it has the most direct impact on human resources policy and prevents teachers from receiving individual courses and especially the reception of young assistants and co-workers in the course, so that there are no selected assistants for teaching, and several courses are also attended by teachers from the Faculty of Veterinary Studies in Sarajevo. On what I will present as parliamentary issues, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr. Radivoje Mitrovica, has been informed orally by me and two other professors from the Department of Veterinary Medicine. What we are looking for as an explanation is that, above all, the Regulation on Standards and Conditions of Labour of the University and the Faculty of Activity financed from the budget, veterinary studies are classified as Article 8 of that Regulation as the sixth normative group, and these studies are based on normative and teaching groups for lectures and exercises, and therefore are also funded and paid by teachers, co-workers in these studies. The course at the other departments of the university belongs to the fourth normative group. However, since the arrival of Dean Krainovic, the Department of Veterinary Medicine is absolutely not allowed to determine the norms and standards of the number of teachers and co-workers by the teaching group they belong to, i.e. Six. Also, no payment of teachers or associates has been made. Therefore, we ask that the dean and the competent services be made known where they were being poured out and spent the funds paid for by veterinary medicine and why they are not allowed to receive teachers and co-workers to the department. Furthermore, the study has very little space available, as far as the practice room is concerned, it is a laboratory and a lecture room, and at the same time more than 500 m2 of business space is issued in the streets of Maksima Gorko and in the main building, so I am looking for an explanation from the dean, by which the decision of the managing authority and from when the business space has been issued to various private persons and businesses, how much income is collected and how much income has been achieved over the past years. I'm also looking for information on how to register and spend those resources on the issue of space and what organisational units have these resources. Can I use another half minute? (President: I thank you. I'd let you but the Rules of Procedure won't. ) Then I would like to inform you that I have also written a request and ask the competent authorities that I have mentioned to examine all the allegations in the written matter and report to both me and the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57995	Thank you, Mr. Machine. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Milovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Serbian Government, my current address is about the parliamentary issue that I asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia on June 28th, which refers to the elemental disasters that hit the central and western parts of the Republic of Serbia on June 24th, which has caused major material damage, invaluable value, or worth several tens of millions of euros. In this weather accident, construction facilities of areas under plantings of various kinds of cultures on the territory of the municipalities of Alexinac, Arlje, Kraljevo, Lucani, Kruševac, Ivanjica and some other municipalities were damaged in central and western Serbia. In this parliamentary issue, i.e. in the context of asking a parliamentary question, I cited the fact that the anti - construction stations had a small number of anti - construction missiles. In some cases, there has been no use of them and why it is allowed, that is a particular question. That is the case, according to Predrag Maric, deputy interior minister for emergency situations in which the government of the Republic of Serbia will acquire 15,000 anti-urban missiles. So there's not enough available. This is a particular problem that needs to be addressed by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent resolution ministry in relation to the anti-building defence for future cases. Who's to blame for this condition, you see for yourself? On various televisions, government representatives announced unselfish and great help to the threatened area both physically and legally. What came after that? At the end of June, I think it was the 30th of June that the government made a decision granting aid to a total of 36,700,000 dinars, so that the cash amount was allocated to municipalities that suffered huge material damage: Alexinac 8 million dinars or 80,000 euros, Ariel 14, million, Merošin 7 million, Nisu 4 million, Kruševec 750,000 dinars, Ivanjica 3 million. Furthermore, the government probably decided at that time that more funds would be distributed to the same municipalities or to other municipalities to repair the material damage suffered. I won't mention tonight's weather accidents, the night between July 11th and 12th on the territory of the Aleksian municipality. However, less intensity but followed by a great stormy rain, no city. Unfortunately, I suppose in this case a certain material damage has yet to be estimated. The municipality of Ljig also received certain material resources for the damage suffered from May 22 and 28th of the flood. This material damage is greater than the government's compensation. And that's where the Serbian government needs to deal with this problem. My question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia is - Since government aid granted to 36 million and 700,000 dinars does not pay even the minimum damage suffered by natural and legal persons in the current year of June 24th, and instead of advice for citizens to secure property, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia – if it plans to provide additional financial assistance to all those who have suffered damage to the mentioned elemental disaster, including material damage from the May floods in the municipality of Ljig. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57997	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57998	Dear Chairman, I will ask the government of the Republic of Serbia and the foreign minister. Given some statements here, it can be concluded that the government has changed its policy towards KIM. What we know is that the policy established in this government's election has not been changed. That is what the congregation has had several times to declare. But whatever. In order to remove the misunderstandings created in public, I think it is important that the Government once again gives evidence that its policy towards KIM has not changed and that all democratic, political, legal and diplomatic means are struggling to preserve or sovereignty in all its territory. I would like to say that one incident, which is obviously technical and which took place at the reception of the President of the Republic here, is abused in a way that does not harm the President of the Republic, but harms Serbia. So what's important to us is that the messages we send to the world don't be such that they put Serbia in an awkward position. To argue that behind this technical problem there is some policy is indeed proof that the damage to Serbia is more important than the need to admit that there are technical mistakes and that, if necessary, someone is responsible for this technical error. But I think the worst of all is to try to give it political importance and thus send the wrong message to the world about the policy that this country is leading, a message that can only and truly harm the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u57999	Thank you. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Gordana Komic and Milan Dimitrijevic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, has also called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Predrag Marković, Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society, to attend: Snezana Stojanović-Plašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, Predrag Blagojevic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, Tatjana Bojić-Jurić, Adviser and Nikola Šeatović, adviser at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society. We continue our work and move on to a search in the details of the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a BIBLE-INFROMACION LAW. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the head of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry the President of the Assembly isn't here, but I hope you will convey this intervention to me. Namely, what's this about? Ms Radeta has made a written request to the Administrative Committee to receive an answer how many times has the First Basic Court reached the Administrative Board of Immunity Requests, Boris Tadic? Since 2008, according to my information, the First Basic Court has so far made five demands to remove Boris Tadic's immunity. The Management Board has never put that on the agenda before. But not only has he not put on the agenda, but Boris Tadic's report does not mention him at all as a person whose immunity is sought. You've had opportunities to spread our public opinion over the past week with messages that there are no untouchables, that everyone should be available to the law, etc. But that's only when it comes to second-class citizens, or MPs. For them, it can remove immunity, but when it comes to Boris Tadic, it must not even be declared by the Administrative Board. I warn you, on the basis of article 27 and on the basis of your authority to do whatever it takes to get us that answer. Otherwise, we will have to contact the Commissioner for Public Information, to order the Assembly or the President of the Assembly to give us that answer. And I don't understand why Boris Tadic is hiding as a sister of Persa, why doesn't he finally show up on the line?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58001	Of course, there is no violation of article 27. Because you can call for an injury that was done right before, and I certainly didn't do any of those injuries. Thus, there is, in some ways, the abuse of the right to advertise injuries. And the right to address the Commissioner for Public Information, of course, has every MP. You advertise injury, replication, based on what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58002	Mr. Chairman, since you have obviously allowed the previous speaker to harm the Rules of Procedure, and now you are asking whether I have the right to reply, given that not only the majority who runs the Administrative Committee has been charged here, but also the president of the party that I represent here, in the capacity of the President of the State, so that citizens are not mistaken, or that they would not be able to be deceived by citizens, I would like to say the following. The Management Board didn't consider any private lawsuits against anyone, otherwise this group here would probably have been taken away from all of them here. Because they have so many charges of defamation, insult and abuse, that none of them would have immunity anymore. So President Boris Tadic was sued by representatives of the SRS on a private suit. If the principle of confiscation of immunity based on private lawsuits were valid, then immunity wouldn't make sense. So immunity protects precisely from political abuse and attempts to sometimes disqualify itself politically by pressing charges against him. In this case, with lawsuits against the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic and for this reason, neither was it considered, nor was a single request filed by the courts being taken away from anyone on the basis of private charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58003	Of course there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you haven't called on any of the members. Mr. Todorovic, your name is in the electronic system, according to the Rules of Procedure. I hurt Article 107?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58004	Yeah. Mr. Novakovic, I am amazed, you as a good lawyer, first of all, I hope you know what it says in the Rules of Procedure and that you can interpret it in the way that whoever wrote it, and it clearly says here that the speaker at the assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the Assembly. Those who participate in the work of this congregation. And you had an obligation to warn the previous speaker in his way of expressing himself about a group of MPs. We are not - this group, but a representative group of SRS. We're just asking why there are first-class citizens and second-class citizens in this country. A private defamation suit, and you know that slander is a crime, should, as in all other cases, be the subject of the Administrative Committee. Whether the Administrative Board will take a position, when it says, in these certain criminal acts, we will not remove immunity, that is the right that the Administrative Board has if decided by the majority. He has no right to hide, to deceive Serbian citizens, because Boris Tadic told a lie in 2007, if he hadn't told that lie, he would have appeared in court. How could he pay the fine for drinking a glass of champagne? It was appropriate for him to show how untouchable he was, how he respected the law. Why doesn't he show up in court now that that lie he said to confirm, that's the problem, you can't deceive anyone or deceive anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58005	No breach of article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because there was no damage to the Parliament's dignity and there was no direct address, so now it's in Mrs. Kolundji's system, and on what basis now? Injury of the Rules of Procedure again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58006	I'm referring to Article 107 and Article 104, given the fact that what I said or didn't get it right here was deliberately misread, so I want to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58007	Sorry, you can't appeal to article 104 of the replica can't be the subject of damage to the Rules of Procedure and a thousand times, we've already cleared that up. The 107th article was just mentioned, so we can't call the same member twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58008	I'm sorry, if you think that in what you've done before, what you've allowed, there's no abuse, then I'm giving up, but I think it's a difficult abuse that you've allowed, and I agree, if it's necessary for me not to allow it, but you've allowed it to be the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58009	I thank you for your understanding. I admit we've moved at the limits of abuse and this is the end of this section, to call it something. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Meso Omerović, Munir Poturak, Bajram Šehović, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanović, Nikola Žutić, Ljubomir Kragović, Filip Stojanović, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic, Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Gorica Mojović, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Kišmarton, Milan Knezić, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljan Miljić, Igora Miljadić, Dragić, Milić, Mirić, Mirić, Dragao Pović, Milić, Milić, Milić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The word has a minister, Mr. Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58010	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, on behalf of all those experts who have worked on these three laws, I would like to thank them, because all parliamentary groups and in principle debates have shown an exceptional willingness to put these three laws in front of the Assembly and to announce that they will vote for the laws, but it is even more important to accept the willingness of all those who participated and to put the urgent procedure on the agenda before the Assembly, which was a proposal of the Government, and that there was an understanding of the National Assembly itself, which, in exceptional circumstances, was speedily considering these proposals, and as a result of these amendments, the greatest number of amendments were accepted and it was a great pleasure that we could do so, and we could, because the amendments were clearly an expression of commitment to this topic and willingness to consider for this area which concerns all citizens, and not real distinction between them, and we, as soon as we legally round this area. At the same time, I am asking for the understanding of those MPs who obviously have submitted the amendments, just because of their urgency, within a very short time, and have not withdrawn them after the principle debate, and during the debate, it has already been indicated that she has been talking about technical failures. One of the typical examples is whether it refers to a book or library building. I suppose during the debate itself, these amendments will either be withdrawn or they will have an understanding of what is a technical failure. Once again, I thank all of you who have made a great commitment to this subject and helped all of us to have a better area in order, because these are three laws that are certainly not coming to change and supplement over the coming years. Thank you again, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58011	The word is submitted to the amendment by Dr Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the principle debate on my part has not been brought to an end. I commended you at first, noting your competence for the topic of the library of old and rare books. The main debate ran in a very calm and democratic atmosphere until the moment you pointed out that the University Library in Belgrade and the University Library in Pristina were mentioned. I'm undermining that article where it's mentioned. They're mentioned in one place. I ask you, Mr. Minister, is that enough in one of these laws, that only in one place should these very important libraries be mentioned and that they are not developed by law. If you remember, after that finding of yours, the President of the Assembly did not allow any further discussion. You have, however, made us notice that we have very superficially reviewed the law from the SRS and thus overlooked the mention of university libraries being mentioned in the law. On the issue of leaving out these two important library institutions of the Republic of Serbia, we of the SRS have submitted several amendments, and therefore it was necessary to clarify ourselves at the end of the principle session. So, Mr. Minister, your claim that the bill has sufficiently represented libraries is, in my opinion, no good for the further survival of the single library network of the Republic of Serbia. If, in your opinion, only formal mention of this library is enough, one time in one law, without legal consideration of its jurisdiction, activity and organisation through new members, as was the case of the National Library and the Serbian Library, then we all need the concern of writers of this legal proposal on libraries, and especially the tendency of these other two legislative proposals in which the National and University Library in Pristina is not mentioned at all. As for your response to this title above the law, you said the amendment was not accepted because the word "citizen" of domestic origin, which has a broader meaning than the name proposed in the amendment, which is in the spirit of matter being processed by the bill. In my amendment, in the explanation of the amendment, I asked for the old Serbian language name of the book to be highlighted for the purpose of affirming the old Serbian speech, that is, an old Serbian dictionary of the above-mentioned foreign words. Unfortunately, infamous practice for Serbian words is due to the internationalisation of Serbian language, particularly expressed over the last hundred years. It takes over the nation of Croatianism and completely takes them. On the other hand, in my explanation, I pointed out that the words "innovative activity" are entirely too much, because, in my very essence, the library institutions normally provide a range of scientific and cultural information, and I don't think it should be pointed out. Yet I am convinced that the title itself is adapted to some kind of European dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58013	The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58014	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in the principle debate, I have looked more closely at the other two laws that will go after this law, and so today I will use the time to take on behalf of the authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group a little more to address the Law on Library Information Action. As I, on behalf of the SNS Group, submitted an amendment to Article 2, your argument that what you provided for in Article 2, which deals with the objectives and general interests of the proposed law, where, under general interest in library information activity, you mean that citizens have free access to information and everything that is related to it and services in this area, and the proposed SNS amendment wanted the general interest to indicate a little more, that it clearly knows what is meant by general interest, which, otherwise, is nowhere more decidently worked out. It involves collecting, processing, storing, providing information on the use of library buildings, then making current and retrospective and other bibliographys of the Serbian people and national minorities, publishing the same building, cataloging and managing the central catalogue of library buildings, receiving and keeping a mandatory copy of the printed publication, building and developing a single library-information system in the Republic, special protection and performance measures. The general interest must be specified precisely because not all individual transactions are within the scope of this activity of general interest. That's why we think the amendment should have been accepted. He is not contrary to the rest of the text of the bill. The concept of general interest of library-information work is more clearly defined. If, in our opinion, the law in this part is unclear, i.e. it is not clear what the general interest is, then it also allows for the arbitrary and uncontrolled spending of budget pairs, so because of all these safeguard measures, we have foreseen that the general interest, according to the SNS, has a slightly stronger position, i.e. a clearer position in Article 2. It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58015	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58016	Article 5 of the proposed law speaks about the principles of library-information work. We asked the proposed amendment to delete this member for the following reasons. Article 5, which in our opinion is unnecessary, has not defined anything in particular or prescribed any obligations or rights. The most obvious example is that this bill contains parts that are declarative in nature. Under the general legal rules, laws should not contain such declarative provisions. That's what we said in principle about the other two draft laws. Automaticly, since it contains such declarative provisions, it exists unclear and is not precisely defined. Article 5 really points out nothing, nothing new is mentioned, and nothing is achieved, nor is there a goal for which there is a Article 5. These provisions could be parts of some of the planning documents or the political background of some of the planning documents, but only provided they are better written and have clearer content. For example, the claim that libraries are a driver of comprehensive development of a free democratic civil society or, as this article says, that libraries ensure the achievement of human rights, indeed says that this member is extremely declarative. We have a policy-free situation, and we have said that we will not tie this law to politics, that this, as well as many previous authorities, has deprived citizens of fundamental human rights, guaranteed by the Constitution, and these are rights to work and to the lives of a man. A large number of Serbian citizens remain jobless, and part of them is whether they will welcome pensions, part of health care, which is also problematic, and basic conditions for life and existence, and we have legal provisions, or individual proposals, or members of legal proposals that are declarative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58017	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58018	Ladies and gentlemen, I would, however, briefly refer to my colleague Kragovic's amendment to article 4, which says: "Autonomic province, i.e. local self-government units" should be translated into plural: "autonomic provinces, i.e. local self-government units". In the explanation of counterpart Kragovic, he said that the existing language formulation in the bill deletes the Autonomous province of KIM from the cultural space of the Republic of Serbia, since counterpart Kragovic is not there, I briefly explained his position. The amendment to Article 5 in the first position asked for the words "development" to be inserted in the words "national and state development" and the amended part of the sentence reads: "The driver of overall national and state development, the development of a free democratic civil society". In light of the bill's proposal, I pointed out that it is necessary to point out the national, national and patriotic component that should certainly be highlighted in the library work, i.e. the use of library material in this legislative proposal. I noticed that our colleagues from the Advanced Serbia Group in one member are just erasing this "national and state development" clause, which is a member, I forgot, from a rare and old book, whether Article 2, so it looks like those of the former Serbian nationalists are turning this provision and transformation into internationalists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58019	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group to Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58020	In Article 6, we asked for the removal of attitudes 1 and 3. Deleting attitude 1. which deals with the definition of library-information buildings and sources. We believe that attitude 1 to absurdity has defined the library - informative structure in terms of source and purpose, and thus we have proposed erasing Article 1, Article 6, and erasing attitude 3 for the reason that there are no criteria in the purchase of library-informative buildings. Indeed, that attitude 3 does not contain any criteria, also such a declarative nature. Objectives, general interests of Articles 1 and 2. The draft law already includes certain contents of Article 6, Article 1 and Article 3 of the proposal, for which we are asking for erasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58021	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58022	Thank you. In Article 10 of the Law proposal, we asked for Article 4 which reads "participation in the system of mutual catalogues, means appropriate telecommunications and computer equipment, professional skills and licenses to work in the computer information system of the library network" to be changed and read as follows: "in the system of mutual catalogues, libraries that have adequate telecommunications and computer equipment and employees who are professionally trained to work in the computer information system can participate in the network". I haven't been able to look at the explanation why you didn't accept it, but the SNS parliamentary group thinks that I submit the amendment in a better and clearer way to regulate the conditions for participation in the mutual catalogue system. Otherwise, the said Article 10 is very important for this law and one of the most important areas that regulates the new bill. We believe that, for example, the word "understands" as in this text of the law and this article, do not really make any sense of using certain legal proposals. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment and, I say, I have not looked at the reasons and there is no reason not to accept the amendment of the SNS parliamentary group to the amendments in Article 10(4). It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58023	Thank you. On the 11th amendment submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment with the correction was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58024	Thank you. In this amendment, we asked for Article 12's position to be changed and the proposed changes in a clearer way to regulate the issues of library founders and the conditions for carrying out library work. What's the big deal? When prescribing conditions for performance, inadmissible and unconstitutional reference is made to some vague and unclear domestic and foreign standards. Conditions which must be laid down by law must also be understandable and understood and certain sublaws can be further elaborated and closer to the regulation of certain provisions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58025	The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58026	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we are a member of Article 15(1). The bill was requested to change, in the sense that the establishment of libraries as an institution and the exercise of founding rights, the provisions of the law governing public services and the law governing the area of culture are applied, if certain issues are not otherwise regulated by this law. We believe that in the second sentence, "based on the opinion of the competent parent library" is deleted. We believe that our amendment is more clearly governed by the establishment of libraries and the exercise of founding rights in position 1 and is in line with other laws governing public services, cultures and the registration of legal persons in the register. Minister, there's one thing that's interesting, one of the failures you've made, that the wording is "registration in the court register", I don't know how you could have made such a failure, even though you said that the register of legal persons in Serbia hasn't been running courts for a long time, so it would be good for you to answer whether it's a technical failure or if you thought of something else with this. In the position of 2nd sentence, "on the basis of the opinion of the competent library" should be deleted, as I said earlier, because the right to set up libraries and exercise of activity cannot depend on someone's free opinion, but rather on fulfilling the conditions prescribed by law. If a positive opinion is a condition without which a library cannot be established and action can be established, then that condition should be added to Article 12, which provides conditions for the performance of that activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58027	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58028	A whole series of these examples we've heard so far, not just from your own parties, but from other parties, talk about how much attention and commitment were involved. But it's a complex matter and you're absolutely right, but please don't use the expressions that I turned down some parliamentary party something. I really don't know who's from whose party. I'm interested in this proposal. In this particular case, what you're looking for for for for a reason and now the answer is not a mistake in this law. In fact, according to the Culture Act, libraries still have to be kept in the register. It is, unfortunately, something that we will have to amend and supplement the Culture Act to solve. For now it is, so since the roof law is the Culture Act, then it simply had to be prescribed one solution, otherwise the suggestion is correct. I thank you for the suggestion, but as you know, for formal and legal reasons, for now, we have to take the decision the way the higher law has been set up, and that's how someone in the Committee on Legislatives was managed, so not the minister, just so you know. I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58029	Thank you. The word has Miæo Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58030	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your explanation. I think that in this set of these three laws you should have made the proposed amendments and amendments to the roof law, because there is no logic that what has really long been a practice in Serbia, i.e. that there is no entry in the court registers, that you are putting into law and that based on that failure that the roof law has made, and we have not made any changes and additions, we schedule, let's say, some session that will cost four million dinars to the Serbian citizen without doing so, regardless of what you say you can't today. I cannot go to legal proposals in terms of non-existent legal practice, and regarding this member, it is indeed a non-existent legal practice in Serbia for several years and what we are about to set up a special session, at which you will amend, for example, only this member who really does not comply with the legal procedure and legal laws of the Republic of Serbia, because the roof law did not provide for this and this law must adhere to the roof law. It's not a very good explanation that in each segment, in each article, there must be agreement with the roof law. What changes, or what changes here if there is no agreement with the roof law? Please explain that to me. I'm sure, you know, you were president of the assembly yourself, that at least one point of change and the addition of the law must require a special session of the assembly, it must require special costs for the citizens of Serbia. I don't think there's any reason for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58031	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58032	There's no reason to confuse people. Clearly, the lower law cannot change the higher. Also, thanks to the suggestions of a whole series of MPs, not only at this session, and in the previous one, among other things, when it was a principle debate we talked about it, and then in Subotica we talked about Mr Balint Pastor and Mr Laslo Varga. We have found, as well as in a whole series of laws being prepared, that there are certain disagreements that will be changed precisely by amendments to the Law on Culture. It would be, precisely thanks to the argument that you have extremely illogical to schedule such changes on several occasions, so that, by the very logic that you have highlighted, we expose the budget and citizens to the costs. The simplest thing is that we will carry out this harmonisation at one session and I hope for the proposal of one MP. I sincerely hope that it will be the President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, and thus it will be visible that it is not on behalf of a majority or one party, but a whole series of technical alignments concerning all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58033	Thank you. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr Balint Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58034	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we are usually not happy when the amendments are being rejected, but at first I can conclude that the non-acceptation of our amendments is not such a big problem because we agreed on Saturday in Subotica to propose together amendments and additions to so-called. basic or roof law on culture. This is acceptable to us, which is more and better a solution than an amendment to the Law on Library Action, because this problem would be systemically solved. The problem is the non-compliance of the provisions of the Law on Culture with the Law on National Councils. In the principle debate, I spoke of it as unacceptable for us that certain laws in the fields of culture, education, information are contrary to the National Minority Councils Act and because it is against the constitution, which is Article 20. The Constitution said that the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced, but it is also problematic from a civilizational point, if this state recognises certain individual and collective rights of members of national minorities by law on national councils of national minorities, then those rights, in particular and the jurisdiction of national councils of national minorities, should also be provided for later laws, in this case for culture. There we can intervene in two ways. One way is that which we originally proposed to introduce these powers into the Law on Library Activity, and to do the same when it comes to the agenda of the law on cinematography, on archives, on theatre activity, on theatres, etc. Another possibility is to amend the Law on Culture. The Law on Culture speaks of cultural institutions, which are also libraries, theatres and archives in some way and all these institutions and it is safe and more elegant and celery to change compared to the jurisdiction of national councils several provisions of the Law on Culture and then to solve all these problems in the same way and now existing and those that could arise in the later period. That is why we are looking forward to this agreement from Saturday, and I can repeat publicly that by the end of this week, we will send you, Mr. Minister, a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Culture, in relation to the jurisdiction of national councils. This will suggest removing the cohesion between the Law on Culture and the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Of course, we are open to other proposals if there are collegiations or different opinions in relation to some other solutions from the existing Culture Act, unrelated to issues of national councils of national minorities and the general culture of national communities living in Serbia, and then we only have to agree on who will be the promoter, whether it will be the Ministry or will be the MPs. For us, it would be of paramount importance to amend and supplement the Cultural Law preferably in September during the extraordinary session of the Assembly or at the latest in the autumn months, to remove these collapsies as soon as possible and to have a clean situation and clean jurisdiction of national councils when it comes to culture. The same will be done in relation to education, information. I can only tell you two sentences on this occasion that tomorrow we will hold a press conference on the media strategy. We will also have objections about the media strategy, but the Ministry is not proposing this document, but we will certainly refer our remarks to you as a resolute minister. I hope we can change that draft media strategy in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58035	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58036	Thank you. I'd just like to confirm once again that, as promised in the principle debate, we met on Saturday, but this is no exception. It's just, my way and I thank everyone who supported you, it's that the jobs are done, that they end up on a proposal from someone who's concerned, because it's not about criticism, it's just this application for everyone who's noticed. In this case, there was a difference between the rights achieved that cannot be reduced and at the same time a whole series of other things that must be changed in the same way and this is the exact meaning of the agreement. I also call on representatives of other political parties to see where the cohesion is observed, as regards the Law on Culture, to look at the initiative and the proposals, therefore, not only through the talks here, which often foresees not all possible solutions, but simply to have a joint initiative. The ministry has announced, it also says in the explanation of the amendments, that it will deal with this problem. I hope we find a way. I've even said one, perhaps incorrectly, just before, from my previous experience, but I hope that he will be well-intentioned by the president in the next period. I sincerely hope that we will be able to do the cheapest when it comes to the cost of the session, and most effectively when it comes to the benefit of the citizens, that a whole series of observed or premonitions in relation to the laws that will be proposed, above all cinematography and archival structure, that we will solve this effectively and quickly. I thank you all for understanding, tolerance, and this way of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58037	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58038	I would first support all MPs who before me have advocated a fundamental amendment to the Law on Culture, which we said even during his debate that we consider to be empty, unspoken, somewhere and contradictory, etc. So we absolutely support that. As for the Law on Library-Intelligence, which is now before us, my greatest pleasure is that in the unique library system, the National and University Library, Ivo Andrić, from Pristina, has been established. Regardless of the current political conditions and possibilities of action in our southern province, we believe it is very important that at least in writing, in all laws, we consistently mention institutions and cultures and others and everything about Kosovo. The greatest flaw in this law, as I said in the principle debate, is that it is so ambitious that it is in our economic conditions, in our assessment, unfortunately, far from being realized. So we want the conditions to be met economically and to be so that everything can be realized as it says in the law. As regards the amendments that we have submitted to Article 18 and Article 19, it concerns the composition of board members and committees. This issue is very confusingly solved in the Law on Culture, mentions experts, and trade unions, representative unions, etc., and our position is next – we think that what we have proposed is not contrary to the Law on Culture, to sort of specify it. In general, I think the point is that when we pass one roof law and individual laws, they should individually specify these general laws. I'm surprised by the rejection of the amendment and its non-acceptance, on the grounds that the solution to the bill is more consistent. The amendment reads. "The members of the Board of Directors appointed by the founder must be experts in library or related cultural activity, and from the ranks of staff representatives of basic work, librarians. The board members can't be union representatives, and here's how we explain it. The library cannot be managed by people who do not have the necessary knowledge of library, and for the same reasons, employees in the board of directors cannot be elected by staff in the accompanying services, with due respect for all tasks to be carried out in one institution. Union representatives, perhaps most importantly, are partners in the board of directors. It's something that's hard to understand these days. They have a role to play. Their job is to protect the interests of their members. So one of the conflicts of interest is that the union wants as much pay as possible, and that the board of directors thinks it's in the general and public interest that the salaries are medium or I don't know what kind. Trade unions protect the interests of their members, and general and public interest is the task of the board of directors. So it's two sides that they have to, and if the union gets into the board of directors, that, believe me, there's a little bit of jurisdiction. If you'll excuse me, I would like to explain immediately and the next amendment as an authorised promoter, I have the right to do so because they are connected. So it's all the same thing I said, just for the supervisors, for the board members. There is the same in the Law on Culture and in practice a very undivided role of the Supervisory Board. It's kind of clear what anybody's doing here. Our amendment reads: "The members of the Supervisory Board appointed by the founder of the profession must be economists or lawyers, as well as members who are elected from the employment order and should not be representatives of the union". According to one of our ideas which we believe is not contrary to the Law on Culture, that, on the contrary, it only defines it, but unfortunately only in the domain of library the role of the Supervisory Board, according to us, is to be helpful to the Management Board, because if the board makes members who are experts in library are not, unfortunately, professional and for the final account, budget etc., so that we need to be members of the Supervisory Board to tell – yes, this budget is possible, logical, etc. and who will be able, educationally, to control that financial part carried out by the Director and the proposals made by the Management Board. I'm sorry that the amendment hasn't been accepted either, but thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58039	The 19th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic, who explained the amendment. National MP Svetlana Stojanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article be added after article 20. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58040	In Article 20. The proposal for a law on library and information activity is proposed by the amendment, which reads: "The National Library of Serbia as a central parent library in co-operation with the Library of the Serbian and National Library Ivo Andric, from Pristina, brings to the initiative of the Ministry of Culture a strategy for the development of library activity in the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia following a public debate. The strategy for the development of library work is brought to a period of ten years", which is proposed by law, "every seven years", which is in some way the newspaper of our amendment. "The proposal for a strategy for the development of library activity is being developed and referred to a public debate no longer than six months, the longest within a year from the date of the application of this law. "Here's what we wanted with this amendment, except that we reiterated that the National and National Library of Pristina is part of Serbia's single library system -- that the creation of a new strategy, which is indeed in this law and the Law on Culture, is intended to begin three years earlier. So, the strategy is made for ten years, but the creation of a new strategy starts already after seven years, which is what we think is being achieved in time, that there may be possible gaps in the strategy, that all necessary advances can be carried out and that we can achieve continuity in the implementation of the strategy, and also in the selection of the Director of the National Library, we could also, as a criterion, introduce ways in which he consistently or inconsistently implements the strategy adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58041	The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic + and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Under the name of Head VII above Article 31 of the amendment, MP Filip Stojanović submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58042	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, on the basis of Article 161. I have submitted an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on behalf of the SRS to the proposal for a law on library and information work. The name Glava VIII, above Article 31, is changed and reads "The XIII National Library of Serbia, the Library of the Mothers of Serbian and People's and University Library of AP KIM. The objective of the amendment is to improve the text of this law. This change protects the unique and cultural space of the Republic of Serbia. In the National and University Library "Ivo Andric" in Pristina, there is an invaluable cultural treasure of the Republic of Serbia. About a million books of Serbian titles remain, with an unconfirmed number of old and rare books. The National Library is the largest library in KIM and one of the largest in the Republic of Serbia. As it is located near the centre of Pristina and near the University, it has also become the University Library. She had a mandate to form and maintain a network of public libraries at KIM and was linked to the National Library of the Republic of Serbia and the National Library in Belgrade. By abandoning this bill, the KiM Library has permanently disappeared from the library system of the parent Republic of Serbia. That is why it is incomprehensible to me, that just taught by such an experience, you have not accepted this amendment of mine, especially not to mention the name KIM, but only the province of Vojvodina in one. I don't think it's too late for you to accept my amendment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58043	National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58044	I would like to comment, that is, to add the explanation that the Government has given us to the amendment of colleagues from the SRS. Just to remind you, this assembly has, in most cases, passed the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. This assembly established by that law the right of the AP Vojvodina to establish archives, museums, libraries. What is very important, on the subject of this amendment, has established the right of the Serbian Library of the Mother of Serbia to perform parenting in the area of library. As is known, the National Assembly is not, and I hope it will not pass a law on the transfer of competence, or on the establishment, of confirming the competence of the AP KiM and thus give the right to perform both parent activity in the area of library. Therefore, all those amendments relating to this case, where only these two parent libraries are mentioned, their parenthood is regulated by law. Therefore, no one deliberately and consciously avoided mentioning the Pristina library, but observed the laws we had passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58045	Thank you. The 32nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Zlata Đerić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58046	The New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted two amendments to this same member. I have to thank Mr. Minister for one of these two amendments, regardless of which is not mine, but from counterpart Miroslav Markevic, he accepted. Although, I think the same could have been accepted and the amendment that my colleague and I submitted. Both these amendments concern the appointment and resolution of the Director of the National Library. Since this is a very sensitive area and a very sensitive function, I thank you for your understanding of our other amendments as well. I think by accepting the amendment of counterpart Miroslav Markevic, you did the right thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58047	The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic to Article 33. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nikola Žutic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 35a and 35b be added after Article 35a and the title above them. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. You just need to re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58048	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I have proposed that new members of 35a and 35b be added to the amendment after Article 35a, and titles above them – the tasks of the National and University Library of AP KiM, Article 35a: "The achievement of the general interest and the basic tasks of the Library and the University Library of AP KIM are the following. Collection, processing, research, storage and giving to use library information building sources. Under 2. – provision of library information services to library users. Under 3 – reception, processing, protection, preservation, representation and administration of any publication supplied under the law governing the obligation and copy of the publication. Under 4. – application of standards in the processing of library information building, source and unique classification system. Under 5. – carrying out research and professional work and publication of publications of books, catalogues, magazines, bulletins in the fields of library and information science. Under 6. – collecting, processing and keeping and using old and rare library buildings. Under 7. – carrying out the work of protecting the old and rare library buildings. Popularizing library-information building sources and fostering interest in the book. Performing reference jobs, receiving and preserving doctoral dissertations, master's work, scientific research projects, standards, patents, documents and editions of UNESCO. Providing information from your own database and databases from other information centres in the country and abroad, and carrying out a library loan. Under 11 - making of CIP, CIP records, cataloging and publication before printing. Under 12 - reception, processing, and storage of donated personal libraries. Under - 13 exchanges of library information and sources with organisations in the country and abroad. Under paragraph 14 - the renewal of other jobs established by this law and the Statute of the National and University Library of AP Kosovo in Pristina. I further propose the following subtitle above Article 35b – the Organization of Labour and Management of the National and University Library of Kosovo and Metohija. The article 35b reads: "Organization, mode of work and management at the National and University Library of Kosovo and Metohija are closer to the Law on the National and University Library of Kosovo and Metohija, the Statute of the National and University Library of Kosovo and the Metohija and the Act on the Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the National and University Library of Kosovo and Metohija. "The governing bodies of the National and University Library of Cosmeta are the administrator, the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. In my explanation, I pointed out that such an addition legally protects the unique institutional cultural space of the Serbian people. The ministry replied that the amendment is not accepted because the National Library of Serbia has the status of national libraries, and the Serbian Queen's Library has the status of a parent library on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I am now asking the Ministry and Mr. Minister who has the status of Pristina, in fact the Kosovo AP Library in Pristina when it was completely expelled. It is only nominally mentioned in a specific article, but these provisions have not been elaborated normably in this legislative proposal at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58049	The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58050	We have submitted an amendment to Article 38 where we have asked for it to be changed and read: "The library-information structure and sources are kept on adequate data carriers in rooms in which they are adequately protected from fire, moisture, physical, biological, chemical and other causes that could lead to their damage, destruction, abuse or unauthorized alterations." We explained that if the amendment improves the provision of this member of the law in a linguistic and logical sense, since the interpretation of the proposed text can conclude that it is possible to keep the library building and out of the adequate rooms, we thought it was necessary to specify it. This amendment has not been accepted, although a large number of our amendments have been adopted, we felt that perhaps the subsequent adoption of the minister could correct this error. Indeed, we believe that this precision in the rooms improves the provision of this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58051	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The people's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted together to the 46th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58052	I did report after the last amendment, though. This amendment has been accepted and we thank Mr. Minister and, in the case of a previous amendment relating to Article 46, he is not accepted. We felt that we had a little more precisely laid down the legal provisions regarding the conduct of a graduated librarian's affairs, but we accepted the minister's argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58053	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58054	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, what has been almost in all the legal proposals lately, in recent years, become a form of government, it is a matter of professional training of employees, so this legislative proposal includes it. Employees have an obligation to carry out their work in accordance with the prescribed technology of labour and law. Formal training is necessary only when changing this technology of work or regulation. If the law prescribes an obligation, it is also necessary to provide for sanctions after the implementation of those obligations. This legislative proposal does not have sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the obligations laid down in Article 49 of the professional training of an employee. I don't know if some sublegal act will prescribe it, probably will, you'll say it will, you're up to it. I'm using this amendment to ask you when, in what time will you make changes and additions to this law? I would ask you to answer that, given that individual proposals and the other two laws are related to this roof law. The same changes are necessary, both in the roof and in these laws. Today is Petrov day, Mr. Minister, July 12th. It must be over 30 degrees outside and today you hear whistles, sounds are familiar to you, you've come to power with them. So much for the standards of citizens who are over 30, I don't know who uses the whistle today, but today someone is protesting on the streets of Belgrade. If this law prescribes professional training to be part of that professional training, it falls on the burden of local self-government because they are founders of their libraries. In the principle debate, I told you about the situation, what budget revenues, what budget local self-government is, and whether those who are usually not political persons, which are directors of the local self-government library, will be able to fight for this part, for these legal provisions, and that is the professional training of employees of local self-government libraries. It's very difficult since it's a big asset and it's not just a matter of professional training. The problem is when you choose agencies dealing with this area, then the favorites of each and these authorities get a job, and this I've told you a story about how budget spending is being spent, so that someone and the minister shouldn't prescribe such conditions, and in Article 49, lastly, the way in which the professional training programme is accredited, as well as how to organise and implement permanent professional training in library-information activities is prescribed by the minister responsible for culture. This was all needed, Mr. Minister, to elaborate on the proposed law, to bring in or sublegal acts, and you should have pointed out that when you explained it, you did not, so I remind you, not that even the minister would leave this part of the obligation to prescribe a minister in charge of culture. I remind you that the conditions of the library director's competition are very rigorous. It is much harder to become the director of the local library than the minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this personally does not concern you but I am talking to you about the conditions of the competition, meaning director for libraries and the election of ministers, it can be a purely political thing. For this reason, because of the way you spend, because of the regulation of various licences, I ask you to give an example of the law in Western Europe that contains, in its legislative proposal, Article 49 in this law, and the same type of member has also provided for two other legislative proposals and to link us with the practice of those countries, it is not even developed countries. A commitment like this, she's going into business, not prescribed by law. It is understood by the technology of the workplace, the work, that you cannot be admitted to the workplace, even if you do not comply with certain obligations and if you are already doing and getting licences and carrying out training seminars, then it is usually in more developed countries which are examples of us in legal practice and in other legal frameworks on the burden of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58055	The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Mrs. Djeric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58056	The New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted two amendments to this article. So one is the amendment that has been accepted. This member normally deals with criminal provisions of the law. I think that in the principle debate, we are all very correct, and Mr. Minister has found that the fines that are normally governed by some other law in our country were probably followed by this intruding in this law. It's too big when it comes to this kind of action because if we first know that every country, when it starts saving, starts saving on culture, then we also know what a difficult financial material position all of our libraries are. First the books all give up, and those people who work in this business, I've always stood by that claim, are truly sincere lovers of this job and people who love and respect the book. He will remember Mr. Minister that Dosei said in time – the man who steals the book should be rewarded. So it's the only theft we can tolerate and forgive. I thank you for accepting the amendment relating to the reduction of fines for libraries. Indeed, 500,000 dinars if someone paid for such violations, which are foreseen, could immediately put a lock on that same library, and we know what kind of violations are otherwise committed in other economic activities, so they are not so harshly sanctioned, that we do not say that they are very often rewarded. We felt that you could also accept this amendment by colleagues Miroslav Markicevic and counterpart Aleksandra Ilic, because it would be important to specify this member and perhaps contribute to this better work, but in any case, with this acceptance, I think this law will help the library to be both orderly and quality, as it has been, and now much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58057	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 55th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Mijatovic has the word. You have to sign up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 55 says – the library which performs library and information activities within the meaning of this law will coordinate the organisation, work and general acts with the provisions of this law within one year of its entry into force. We believe that the deadline of one year is too short and we have suggested that since the three years since the adoption of sublegal acts for the implementation of this law. So that's what it is, the minister's gone, but good. The deadline for the coordination, organisation of work and general acts of the library with the provisions of this law of only one year is too short, especially in the light of the fact that Article 56 has a six-month deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts, which are necessary for the implementation of the law and the harmonisation of the work of libraries with the law. It is not possible to determine from the reasons why it is necessary, or at least very useful for the coordination to take place within such a short time, and whether there are material and other conditions to do so. As it is unlikely that libraries can enforce the law within such a short period of time, the question arises whether this state will close all libraries after that deadline, which have failed to bring their work into line with the law. That's what the minister should give an answer to. Otherwise, according to established domestic custom, law violations will have to be tolerated because there are no conditions to apply within that time limit. This, of course, creates a general climate of mistrust in laws and violations of laws, which in our case is "healed" by subsequent changes in inapplicable laws, before applying and starting. This would be neither the first nor the last law that we will not apply to this law, or we will pass by the urgent procedure of the law, and then we will change it in two years. The long-term consequence has been the general state dissipation, which in this country has already ruled against such short deadlines as are prescribed by our new laws in EU countries where this outgoing government is already swearing and the deadlines are sometimes ten years old, and those who are already performing their duties enjoy many reliefs in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58059	Thank you. The 56th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58060	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I still have to look back once more on the previous amendment, because what my colleague Mijatovic said is really very important and what the SNS parliamentary group asked for to change within a year and it would be a legal deadline of three years. I must stress what in the case of, once again, a library that does not, in the sense of this law, do not comply with general acts with the provisions of this law. Does that mean we're gonna lock them up? There's no reason to get into a situation where after a year we're re-branding changes and additions to this, I hope, a law that will be passed and that we realize that these deadlines really for this area are small and there's no reason not to move that deadline for three years. We have so requested an amendment to Article 56 to be adopted after Article 1 of the amendment to Article 56 which states that the sublegal rules for the implementation of this law shall be adopted within six months until the date of entry into force of this law, to add Article 2 which reads: that, until the adoption of the rules laid down in Article 1, sublegal acts will be adopted in accordance with the law on library activity, the Official Journal 34/94 and 101/05. This is legal practice. Under the general legal rules, all sublegal acts which cease to apply, or cease to apply with the date of termination of the importance of the law, on the basis of which they are adopted. It is therefore understood that there is a supplement of Article 56, because I think that by failing to adopt this amendment, you will prevent the normal work of libraries and other state bodies in this area from adopting regulations in accordance with this law, that is to say, in the period until this law is brought into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58061	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. The 57th Amendment, which was submitted jointly by MPs Meho Omerovic, Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. The government has accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of all amendments. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. We have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Old and Rare BIBLE CITY, in particular. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nikola Žutić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Oleta Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz, Nena Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papug, Radovan Kragović, Milorad Buh, Milorad Buh, Goran Mihajlović, Filip Stojlović, Nikola Savić, Zlata Đarović, Srđa Šamović, Mirošić, Miroštović, Miroić, Miroić, Mirović, Mirošić, Miršavić, Mir. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments before the change to the search in particular reminding you that MP Gorica Mojovic, by written means, has withdrawn the amendment that has submitted to Article 24. The National Assembly has carried out a principled search and pursuant to Article 157(3). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Žutic has submitted an amendment to the name of the bill and gets the word. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the bill and I have proposed that the law be amended, that the word – library construction, delete and replace the word – book. I also pointed out in principle the library structure, reminds of some construction wood material, and that it is a completely inappropriate term in the library, and so far it has been used only in the archival profession and unfortunately, historical science, often historians and scientists mention this very term – archival structure, instead of an archival document. As a variant of the name of this bill, I have proposed a solution to call the law – a law on an old and rare book and library material. In my opinion, the term – material, yet more acceptable than the term – is built. I suggested a language formulation of library construction, that it should have been replaced in all the members with the formulation – books, or books and library material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58063	To the 2nd amendment tabled by the 21st People's MP Group, Forward Serbia. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 3 of the amendment, which was submitted by a group of 21 MP groups, forward Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58064	We asked for an amendment to Article 3. The bill should also read – the provisions of this law are equally applied to the old and rare and library building, which was created on the territory of the Republic of Serbia or in public property, or in the property of the natural or legal persons on which they reside, or established on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What did we want with this amendment? A clear expansion to both the old and the rare library structure in the languages of national minorities and that the same provisions of this law apply to these structures. I think still though I said in the principle debate, that there was a gap here and that in Article 7. The proposal for a law on the old and rare library structure is prescribed that the old and rare library works of old Serbian books, books in Serbian and Serbian alike, and I do not think that all that is stated in Article 7 is enough to refer to an old and rare library building that has come out, or that exists in the languages of national minorities. The best way to overcome this situation was to accept the amendment the SNS submitted. Why don't you, you know, but it's not enough that it's listed in Article 7 where point 2 speaks of old foreign books, you don't have to book in the languages of national minorities to be covered only by this term of the foreign books of manuscripts and printed books.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58065	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. No one wants a word. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has submitted several identical amendments to all three of these proposals and these are serious amendments, especially given the circumstances and facts currently current on the political scene of Serbia, which I would like to say a few words, as an explanation, which is why we believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia was obliged to accept this amendment. Article 4 discusses the obligations of the competent authorities, which speaks about the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government, etc. The amendment draws attention to the fact that there cannot be a single Autonomous province in this member, and in all members, laws, sublaws and wherever the Autonomous province is mentioned, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, it is mandatory to stand – autonomous provinces. Serbia has two autonomous provinces. The Autonomous province of Vojvodina and the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. The fact that KIM is currently occupied territory, that they are trying to impose on us the fact that KIM is not in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, is a matter of some others. We in Serbia, wherever we are, and you from the government are overly obliged, i.e. we are obliged not to accept the fact that there is this false state of Kosovo, because it is not internationally recognised. Unfortunately, such things are increasingly being stolen from various international agreements to our laws, where only one Autonomous province appears beneath the grain, and thus the Government of the Republic of Serbia indirectly recognises Kosovo's false state. If the minister were here, you would probably react and say that no one in Serbia is thinking of recognising the state of Kosovo, that's something we listen to every day and no one is questioning it and no one will ask, nor has he asked officials in the Republic of Serbia to recognise Kosovo formally, but in this way and in similar ways, the ruling regime shows that it accepts that another state, a false state of Kosovo, is formed in Serbia's territory. We are increasingly witnessing that officials from various European countries are openly saying that the condition for Serbia's entry into the EU will be good neighbourly relations with the fake state of Kosovo. It's very dangerous and it also means confession. What they won't tell you, sign, Kosovo is a state, it means nothing. If they tell you, sign good neighbourly relations with Kosovo, then that means they ask you to be a false state of Kosovo, in fact the state and you accept it from day to day in one way or another. You're only going to show up in the public media one day, and you're going to say, it's a state of action, and we need to establish good neighbourly relations with who, with a part of our country. Is that internationally possible? It's not. Will you accept that? You will, because you are ready for anything to join the EU. We are witnesses these days, and here Mr. Borko Stefanovic answered the MPs' question, on the subject initiated by the SRS parliamentary group and imagine wonders how you set him up to answer questions and KIM Minister and other representatives of the government, just two days before signing an agreement with Edith Tahiri and a representative of the false state of Kosovo. How come he doesn't set up the President of Parliament to discuss it afterwards? The whole time Mr. Borko Stefanovic has convinced us here that it will not be the way we said it would be, unfortunately. We're not happy it happened. We're not happy that everything we say, we from the SRS, is being proved to be true for a while. But the fact is that we are the only ones who are trying openly and who are talking openly about it and who are drawing attention to Boris Tadic's regime that they must immediately break off any contact with the EU. The EU is an enemy of Serbian national interests, an enemy of the Serbian state. What did Mr. Borko Stefanovic do, we don't know on behalf of who? Recognition of personal documents, ID cards, fake Kosovo states, driver's licenses, cadastrian operations. Where's the interest of the Serbian state? Where's the interest of the Serbs with the kiM who live there? He's gone. Ask those people. People say, "Well, he has done nothing to us. He has helped the Shiptars. Because Serbs know where to find a municipality with KiM temporarily moved home books, catastrian operatives, the people who are from Pristina's territory to Kruševac go well and take out personal documents there. What the regime is doing, the regime helps the Shiptars, that they can, not only reach personal documents on KIM territory, in a work they call the state, a false state of Kosovo, but that they can also abuse them. Imagine what will happen when the catastrian operatives reach into the hands of the Shiptarian so-called. to the authorities, when they draw how they think, so when one day we get into a situation to see that Serbs don't have registered property in the KIM territory? It is very dangerous and therefore this amendment is to draw attention to the need to take every step, to take care of it, never to sign any agreement and never to pass any law where you will not respect the fact that two autonomous provinces exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Borko Stefanovic says that what he has admitted, we ask again, we do not know on whose name he was not sent by the Assembly, and I suppose it should be for the Assembly to authorise him, and that he is acting there in accordance with the views of the Assembly and the Resolution that was adopted in this parliament, he says – in fact, no ID cards or driver's licenses, as he says, of the Kosovo authorities, and we say false states of Kosovo. In terminology you must take care of, no one should ever say the state of Kosovo, the authorities in Kosovo, but we must always say that it is a false self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, and that it is, in fact, the territory of the Republic of Serbia and by the Constitution and really and historically, and whatever you want. He says, therefore, that these documents will not be recognised in the rest of the Republic of Serbia, because on the line of separation, so-called. The administrative line, issue some confirmation to be used in Serbia, in the second part of Serbia, which is not KIM. We are now asking the representatives of the government, perhaps they will ask Borko Stefanovic, on what basis will this paper be issued on the administrative line? Based on documents from the fake state of Kosovo. So, day by day, step by step, gentlemen of the regime, you literally and indirectly recognise the false state of Kosovo. Work against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, working against the interests of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You are committing a crime that does not go out of date, for which you will at that time answer, representatives of the regime, first of all Boris Tadic, who is in charge of all this. Unlike this amendment, which has not been accepted, so if this argument is not enough, then we really don't know what the real reason would be. You say - the amendment is not accepted because using a small letter "a" means that the formulation of the bill applies to both autonomous provinces. That, of course, is not true. It can also apply to six autonomous provinces, which are planning to soon form Mladjan Dinkic, based on this law adopted here, o so-called. decentralisation that is not literally decentralisation but Serbia's new cleavage. If it's even like this, and then what bothers you to accept the amendment of the SRS, so you can make it loud and clear – autonomous provinces? Does that change the essence of the law? No, I don't. But it changes what you have to do, and that's the problem. On the other hand, we in the SRS were very surprised by the submission of one scandalous amendment and by accepting the government of the Republic of Serbia's amendment. That's really amazing. The amendment concerns Article 2. Although the government has accepted that amendment in quite a context with this amendment, I would also like to say something about it. This is Article 2 which says that the old and rare library structure is a cultural heritage of particular national and national interest for the Republic of Serbia, etc. Someone thought to delete the word "state and national" from this. But what is the interest of an old and rare library, rather than a cultural heritage of particular national and national interest for the Republic of Serbia? It's amazing that the government has accepted this amendment. We understand the motives of the applicant of the amendment. The applicants are, to remind, so-called. MPs, those who stole the mandates of the SRS three years ago and who belong to the Progressive Party. Their motives are clear, because their president, Tomislav Nikolic, repeats repeatedly that DS policy is good, only to get them to implement it faster. That, of course, means that they would have given up Kosovo faster, they would have left even more people out of work and would have done it faster, they would have destroyed the economy faster and they would have destroyed Serbia's national interests faster. Here's the evidence. They, therefore, do not want this law to say that the library is of particular national and national interest. You, of course, because the regime and the advances are getting along perfectly in everything, as they share the same political values, you have accepted this amendment more quickly. An amendment where we ask that in this law, as in all laws, I repeat, and sublegal acts, and in formal and informal communication, it must never be left out that there are two autonomous provinces in Serbia, you did not accept it. This really speaks of the relationship between the ruling regime, above all, according to the Republic of Serbia, according to Serbian national interests and respect for the Constitution. Of course, this also goes one step at a time, which will ultimately result in a change in the Constitution, and the essence of the change in the Constitution will be the erasure of the preamble that guarantees that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. That's why you pass laws that are unconstitutional today, but you plan on someday being constitutional. So what you're doing is unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58067	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58068	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, and I have proposed that Article 1, in Article 4, point 2, which is to be added -- the Republic of Serbia is obliged to ensure the consistent application of international conventions on the protection of the material and immaterial cultural heritage in the region and abroad. It is very important for the SRS to install in one law a clause that will oblige all state institutions to take care of cultural construction, both in Serbia and in the region, because the unfortunate circumstances of the 90th to 95th year have left many Serbian territories where Serbs built, worked and created, where they left huge cultural heritage and the obligation of the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia is to protect everything that represents cultural heritage. Unfortunately, you have rejected this amendment with a radical explanation, where you say - the amendment is not accepted because it is not specified how the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to care for the protection of material, immaterial cultural heritage abroad. One who gave this answer to know the matter would then see that in international legal practice, there is a huge number of international conventions in international law that were passed especially after World War II by the UN Organization, among other things a specialised organisation, UNECO organisation, which is responsible for protecting the cultural heritage of the world, has been established. That this state, the state institution of the Republic of Serbia, is taking care of it, all these conventions and all other international rules have been ratified in this assembly, that is, the previous congregations, and they are in the legal lives of the Republic of Serbia. The obligation of state authorities to protect cultural heritage as you have stated, but to strictly apply international conventions to which we have the right, because these are international rules. What was the goal besides this amendment? It is to protect the cultural heritage of Serbs in those parts of Serbian countries that are now ethnically cleansed, where Serbs today do not live or live in a very small number due to ethnic cleansing that followed in the 1990s, 91s. Preferably, he means the premises of Republika Srpska, where between the 1990s and 95s, the genocide activities of the Croatian state have ethnically cleared the premises of Dalmatia, like, Banija, Korduna, Slavonia and other areas of Serbian countries. In this area, 78 Orthodox icons with icons were destroyed, with the spiritual treasure found in these Orthodox objects. 29 museums were destroyed, all assets were moving and the immovable property was destroyed, burned, devastated. 40 libraries were burned and burned, all Cyrillic editions found in these libraries were burned, just as the Inquisition worked in the Middle Ages, so was the Croatian State and Croatian Armed Police Forces. 920 monuments were destroyed most of those of World War II. The same state that swears on anti-fascism destroyed everything that is a sign of the fight against fascism. The 3,000 monuments of the tablets that speak of Serbian life, the creation of Serbian literature and Serbian culture in the territory of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia have been destroyed. With the right of the politician and respected professor Svetozar Livada in his book "Ethic Cleanup – the Lawful Crime of the Century" says that it is a culture and says: "Culturocide did not result from war conflicts but is part of an ethnic cleansing strategy without the rest. In the light of the world, the land and the disappearance of the landscape's spiritual and cultural treasure, the torment and silence ruled over the spiritual being of the Krajisnik Serbs. Fear, hopelessness, loss of identity and national dignity turned into a sense of absolute hopelessness. A passive relationship between Serbian institutions means giving consent and approving enemy demolition policy." Unrecorded that a nation loses its culture, and the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia are doing nothing to preserve the remaining cultural heritage, to put it in a relationship, to protect itself. The obligation of this country and this people is to protect what remains there and to resuscitate everything that can be resuscitated. Unfortunately, there's no movement. We have witnessed the last ten years of Croatia's demand for their cultural heritage to return to them. Cultural heritage should be restored. However, it is also a matter of Serbian cultural heritage. From Orthodox churches in Vukovar, in the Far, etc., which have been transferred here, which are even recovered here, in terms of the recovery of those damages that occurred during the war, etc., all of this has been returned. What is the fate, specifically, of the libraries, of all those libraries that were burned there, the cultural heritage that went missing in the flames, which I burned? That's what we need to talk about. This parliament must be framed in everything that represents international law. International law, international conventions give us the right to protect and preserve everything that is part of our history, part of our being on the premises of Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija etc. For the past month, we have seen cultural heritage and cultural monuments on KIM. From who? By the international community, we must make that clear. Who's coming after you? To the French and Americans, because behind the activities of Albanians they stand and they push for our sanctity to become and reshape as part of Kosovo's identity, Kosovo's being and Kosovo's legacy. Fortunately, it has not yet been done, but it is not excluded that we will not experience such an insult in the future, where they will take away and take away everything that is part of Serbia's identity. What's important to stress is that the state isn't in office. I will present concrete facts, where I am a witness and where witnesses are certain cultural workers who participated in the activities of saving the cultural treasure of Serbian Dubrovnik. What is important to stress is that very few Serbs know that the Serbian Dubrovnik Matica worked in Dubrovnik at the beginning of the last century. It was founded on 1 August 1909, a very important cultural, educational and scientific institution of Serbs, Roman Catholics and Orthodox people. This cultural institution published books, magazines, scientific papers and had a very rich publishing activity. In addition, she cared about education, young staff, educated young people in Serbian spaces, Vienna, Rome, etc. The Serbian mother of Dubrovnik, from 1909 to 1914, published 16 significant works by Serbs of Roman Catholics and Serbs of Orthodoxs. So, a hundred years ago. When one group of intellectuals tried to find those books published by the Serbian Dubrovnik Matica, we encountered problems as to how to reach them, a total of 16 editions. Why is it so hard to get to them? Because the cultural treasure of Serbs was destroyed. In Dubrovnik, the Mother of Serbia had a library, somewhere in the war, whether it was destroyed in World War I or World War II, and the question is where in the cultural institutions of the Republic of Croatia there are now works. We found one part of the building in the Serbian Matica, the other found in other cultural institutions in the Republic of Serbia, but no institution in the Republic of Serbia has 16 books, not to mention magazines, hundreds of magazines published by this cultural institution. I promised the minister, as well as my colleagues, Momir Markovic, that we would hand over the editions of this important scientific institution of the Serb people. We've kept the 16 books from being forgotten. A scientific meeting was held here in Belgrade, and I have to take a critical look at the position and position of the president of the Assembly and the administration of the secretariats of the Assembly, because we asked that a scientific assembly be held in the small hall of this assembly, aimed at preserving cultural heritage and cultural life, and that all that is related to the Serbs of the Roman Catholics and Serbs, in terms of preserving the Serbian identity of Dalmatia and Dubrovnik, be collected in one place and announced. At this scientific gathering, which, unfortunately, was not held here, but in Zemun, 25 scientific papers were published and all of this is here. We'll give it to you, as we gave SANU, the Serbian Library, Marica to Serbia in Novi Sad, and we'll give it to the ministry, because the ministry needs to know. On behalf of the initial committee to convene this scientific meeting, however, I informed the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture, as well as the competent other institutions, the Academy and the Matica of Serbia. So many are interested in heritage and tradition, in protecting old and rare buildings, that no one has come. What is important to emphasize and that is that the activity of a few enthusiasts is preserved from oblivion, the publishing work of the Mother of Serbia of Dubrovnik, everything that was related to the identity of Serbs in the premises of Dalmatia, Dubrovnik, Boke Kotorska, Banije, Like, Korduna etc. So, a total of 18 books, no one's material support or help. If we analyze the work of the Ministry of Culture and these scientific institutions a little bit, then we see that they are more concerned with some other activities than really protecting old buildings. Thus fate and this law will be put aside somewhere and the real material protection of cultural goods and cultural heritage will not be as provided for by this law. We don't have a strategy in terms of protection, we don't have written plans on what we're supposed to do in terms of protection, we don't have financial resources, so this law is just a dead letter on paper, and it's not going to have its own materialization as such, and we're bringing it in just to materially protect everything that has to be protected. When we talk about protection, then we must say that in addition to the state institutions, the Ministry of Culture, there are significant cultural institutions that must be in function, primarily SANU, which is the basis and basis of knowledge, profession, experience and all that is related to our cultural tradition. However, SANU is also out of service. A Serbian mother in Novi Sad, as a significant cultural institution, has also strayed from the path. Mostly, they don't have any money. On the other hand, part of the management staff runs one policy that is not national. This concerns the issue of Serbian language, the issue of place and the position of Serbianism in all of this. The main brakes in the national sense, in terms of the sustainability of the Serbian language and of the Serbian letter, are just the representatives of the Serbian Mother in Novi Sad. Where is the place and position of other scientific institutions, the predominantly library? Libraries don't have enough space to store buildings. They do not have enough space to accommodate everything that needs to be protected, protected, etc., as you have stated here in this article 4 – to care, protect, protect and care for the old and rare library building. It can't be protected, it can't be guarded, it can't be cared, it can't be handled unless there's an adequate space. The state of Serbia and the state institutions of the Serbian state have not given adequate treatment and an adequate place, and they do not have adequate resources. I was a witness, during the period when I was the director of a municipal company in Novi Sad, when the representatives of the Serbian Mother begged me and the godmother to help them, because their rooms had not been painted for 30, 40 years. Some people who had so many years of employment said they never saw anyone doing any construction work there. After 30 and a few years of a certain office, organised by my company where I was a manager, they came out on the spot and remedied the already damaged rooms and threatened rooms, even for the life of a dangerous space in the Serbian Matica. If such a situation is in the Matica of Serbia, I ask the question of how is it in other cultural institutions, how is it in libraries? We know the story and we can find it in the media and see what is happening in these institutions in terms of protection, preservation, that this old and rare structure, is very important from the aspect of the preservation of the identity of a nation, to protect and preserve it in an adequate manner. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58069	The word has Mrs. Donka Banovic's folk emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58070	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I would like to support my colleague Milorad Buha's amendment to Article 4. It's a member of the bill, where these basic provisions are. The member speaks of the obligations of the competent authorities when it comes to protecting the old and rare library buildings. The first position in the proposal is – the Republic of Serbia, AP, i.e. the unit of local self-government, is obliged to protect and protect old and rare library buildings as a cultural heritage of general interest, to provide adequate facilities for them, professional management and provision of services to citizens. I also suggest adding this 2nd position, which reads: "The Republic of Serbia is obliged to worry about the consistent application of international conventions on the protection of material and immaterial cultural heritage in the region and abroad." In practice, UNESCO violates the Conventions on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the acquisition of Serbian material and immaterial heritage, so it is necessary that the state, through such provisions and in this law, prevents the aggressive kidnapping of Serbian heritage and cultural treasures, both in Croatia and in the area of KIM. When the Minister of Culture, the Proposer, in the principle of debate, at the beginning of the debate among other things, when he spoke about this law, he said first of all that the intention of this law was to ensure the protection of its structure, regardless of its property. And then he told us, let's say, I didn't know that he called it illegal exports here, that's smuggling or smuggling cultural treasures from this area, that these criminals in the previous year earned more than those criminals who smuggled narcotics. We're talking about a terrible phenomenon, and I'm afraid we've been very late, when it comes to the protection of our cultural treasure, because if there was no record, except in the institutions, where there was a record, or we didn't have any data on how many of these items are owned by a private person, or private property, so I guess we can give some estimates, but we're probably not aware of how much our cultural treasure was the subject of smuggling and how much individuals and criminals have just earned by doing these criminal activities. I'm glad the minister's back, although the ministry's representatives are here, they'd tell him, I'd like to remind the minister, and to God all the citizens of what happened in late June, or early July in Paris this year. You know the 35th session of the UNESCO Committee was held. This has been reported by many of our media, particularly written, that the Serbian delegation has been exposed, to say, that is, our cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija with one unscrupulous attempt to kidnap those saints and four monasteries that have been on the list of protected monuments, endangered monuments since 2006, and these are precisely the four monasteries on the UNESCO protection list, so it is amazing that there has been an attempt at the sitting of that organization by some of our great friends from the European Union, that the High Decani, Gracanica, Pecka Patriarchia and the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška are among the medieval cultural heritage of Kosovo. You know, the newspaper had headlines -- France is trying to kidnap Serbia's monasteries. So, from those headlines, I wasn't at that session, I was reading a report in the paper, like you, it's clear that exactly France, which hosted this meeting, tried to include these monasteries in the medieval heritage of Kosovo. They asked the Minister of Culture's application to pay attention to the work, i.e. the lack of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because if the Foreign Ministry had done its job properly, then Serbia would not have come to such a situation or the opportunity to prove that Gracanica or that Pećka Patriarchia is just a Serbian medieval heritage or Serbian cultural heritage, not some kind of Kosovo heritage. So, in the Serbian government, no one does their job. Note what the foreign minister is doing, of course, from tournaments to tournaments, I guess something is doing, except he only says Serbia will never recognise an independent state of Kosovo. A man from his ministry through some kind of negotiations, he calls them dialogues, and these are very serious negotiations, in part, part by part, from negotiations to the independent state of Kosovo. Note, please, that Borko Stefanovic does not put these negotiations on the agenda of Serbia's cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58071	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58072	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on the Old and Rare Library Building - Article 5(2) after saying, "The Matica Serbian Library" adds: "The National and University Library of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija in Pristina." With this change, we protect our unique cultural space across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Just the events of a few weeks ago, they themselves speak of the contribution to this proposal. We have witnessed that the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo has tried to carry out a terrible and sneak attack on the field of our faith and culture. The Albanians tried to vote at the 35th session of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, under which the High Decani, Gracanica, Pecko Patriarchia, Bogorodica Ljeviška and other monasterys across Kosovo and Metohija would be so seduced as the medieval well-called Republic of Kosovo, not Serbia. Serbia managed to prevent another attempt to kidnap our monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija after an 11-day drama and the real diplomatic war that took place in Paris. In the end, our delegation managed to stop this proposal, but they will not stop at this, they will continue with the theft. We cannot and must not give up when we know that there are a large number of books in the treasures of our monasteries that are older than these monasteries that were built even more than eight centuries ago. All the books found in our monasteries and churches in Kosovo and Metohija are written in ancient Slovenian, in public known as church Slovenian. Trained by such experience, it is incomprehensible that you have not accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58073	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. It is an honor to inform you and to welcome the members of the National Council for Culture, who are part of today's session followed by the National Assembly Gallery, and are present: Mr Mileta Svesna Injac-Malbaša, Mrs Milica Todorovic, Mr Dusan Kovacevic, Mrs Marina Neskovic, Mr Duško Paunković, Mr Aleksandar Denić, Mr Slobodan Vujović, Mr Dusan Otašević, Mr Miro Vuksanovic, Mr Karolj Vicek and Mr Muhedin Fijuljanin. Welcome. The word has a minister, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58074	I would like to join this applause of all the MPs, because the seat where the members of the Council are sitting right now, the constitutive session began just now, as part of this shared agreement symbolically. We have seen in the principle debate of all parliamentary groups the importance of these laws that govern one area of culture, but thus bring it to an end. So, one whole job we're doing is done, and we're also doing this kind of advisory obligation, but we're also doing the supervisory duties that the council will do, and it's a pleasure that these are prominent members of our culture, which are just elected by the MPs, that we could start a session here at the House of the National Assembly, and this is symbolic for all of us, and I believe for all of us who are present, an important moment. I'm joining those congratulations. As I have already taken the floor, I would like to comment on the amendments that, as I said at the beginning of today's session, have been done extremely seriously in the short term and have helped a whole series of experts who have prepared, to further improve the parts of this text, and thus we have come into a situation that is not legal, here I am primarily speaking to Mrs Đeric with great gratitude for the amendments. It's not legal. It's logical. You have seen that both in your case and in the case of amendments proposed by Mrs Mojovic, in several cases we have two amendments, so one of the good ones was chosen. So it's not legal. Simple, never two good ones at once. So we had to define ourselves always for those amendments that are further functional or in the basic spirit of these laws. Once again, I am deeply grateful that it was possible to adopt amendments from all representatives and, unlike the media, I believe that MPs are serious and that indeed, as they said in the principle debate, all parliamentary groups that have confirmed that they will support these laws and will come to the session and support the laws. In previous situations, I have observed what is said for voters, and when the vote of MPs comes, there is no. I am sure that this time, everyone will be there and that it will be a great pleasure, to show how much we care about culture, because it is a common ground and not subject to politics, as mentioned on several occasions in Paris, I have to show great satisfaction for what representatives of the institutions of the Serbian state's culture, and that is what representatives of the Ministry of Culture have done. I must say, representatives of other ministries have also done their job well. I understand the tones that exist. Finally, they exist in these situations where the choice of options is narrowed down. There are opportunities you can use, there are opportunities you can't take advantage of, so maybe it's not good to talk about them. Here we have also had several well-intentioned amendments, whose adoption would cause a whole series of consequences that could endanger the efficiency of the protection that this ministry and I believe all MPs are insisting on. Once again, I thank you for your well-meaning, but I point out that some of the amendments could not have been adopted without perhaps a sufficiently dry explanation. I am prepared to give any MPs who want an additional explanation, because it is in the interest of the entire state of Serbia and the protection of all cultural institutions. In this case, all of those, not only libraries that care or have the opportunity to care for the old library and archive structure, are often found in private collections, are often found in bookstores, in different places. I'm at my disposal to provide further explanations. Thank you, everyone for understanding. I'm sorry, if I don't attend at the session, there are representatives of the ministry. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58075	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I thank Mr. Minister for this clarification regarding the adoption of certain amendments. But, in order not to be inconclusive, some amendments were not adopted because they were mine or because I was from the ruling coalition. The amendments, respected Mrs. Zlata Djeric, are similar to the amendments I have also submitted. The promoter accepted these probably because they are more in the spirit of the law, not because I am from this parliamentary group. Unless... Please, I am not interrupting anyone during the debate and during the presentation of MPs from other MPs, and I ask your attention and when I expose myself. So the amendments are accepted, or when it comes to similar ones, when they're more in the spirit of the law, or when they follow some of the attitudes of the law, or those that have arrived before. I don't believe mine have arrived before, but I believe that they are more suited to the members they refer to, although I believe that the largest number of amendments that my colleague Zlata Đeric has, and I would say the other MPs, have submitted to these laws are indeed submitted in the best interest, that these otherwise extraordinary legal acts are advanced. Thank you. So much to be clear, whose amendments are accepted, does not work in order, but according to certain principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58077	Thank you, Mrs Mojovic. Of course, you're absolutely right. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58078	I'm sorry, I've obviously made a mistake. It was not a case at all, it was a case of amendments from the same parliamentary group. So, Mrs. Djeric's colleagues adopted the amendment, not yours. So that was a joke – never two good ones at once. I have named those MPs who have submitted an extremely large number of quality amendments. That is why I mentioned the name Mrs Mojovic and Mrs Djeric. I thank all those who are individual, there were also parliamentary groups, so I cannot highlight all members of a parliamentary group. This is simply my gratitude to everyone who has worked on these amendments. You're certainly right, Mrs Mojovic. It's always been an effect. This remark was a joke to Mrs. Djeric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58079	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Is Mr. Yellow going first, or are you going to be Mr. Saviæ? The word is Mr. Savic, the applicant of the amendment, so Mr. Žutić, the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the bill on the old and rare library structure. My amendment refers to Article 6. I must say at first that the government has adopted this amendment. Of course, that's good, but I have to say something about this amendment, first of all, for a reason, what would have happened if I hadn't submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS and what text of the law would have passed. Mr. Minister, your associates and you, in this article of the law, have failed. You failed in the bill, not the adoption of the amendment. I'm literally going to make my argument here that you accepted. By proposing the old text of the law, the legislator fully devalued SANA as an institution. On the other hand, the Dukean illegal, unconstitutional Academy of Science would practically put itself in the same plane, which, we know, would lead to the big problems we have. Certain national minorities are looking for their Academy of Art. That's one case we all know well, we have in the Rasca area, where certain people and certain groups are looking for the establishment of so-called. Sanjay Academy of Science and Art. If, God forbid, something like that would happen, we'd have two academys with the SANU-Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and this other one, which some mention, which we hope will never happen because it's an anti-constitutional, Sanjay Academy of Science and Art. The same situation is also the case when it comes to the SPC, the bill, without being able to adopt an amendment, the SPC comes down to traditionally recognised churches, as well as all other churches, and in the bill there was nowhere to be found to be a religious community, which is essentially the SPC. I want to remind you once again and thank you for adopting this amendment. It's just, he's totally logical, consistent, and you had to do something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58081	The word is Mr. Žutić on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to thank Mr. Minister for adopting this very important amendment to the SRS. A colleague, Nikola, has just stated in his explanation all the key arguments in our party explanation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58083	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58084	Thank you. Why am I talking about the amendment that was accepted, the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group? Because we need to distract the public, what was the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and how they wanted to promote such a disastrous text of the law here. That is what should be the topic of the talks in this House. If you have accepted this amendment and it is good that it is accepted. It's good, not because of the SRS, but because of the Serbian national interests, because of the state of Serbia, but because of the question we don't have an answer to – how could the government not take care of this? This is indeed a major problem and a major failure in the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's no excuse – we accepted the amendment, so good. What if it hadn't been for the amendments? Imagine how dangerous the text of this law would have been, that is, this Article 6 and Article 5 if it hadn't been for the amendments of the Members of the SRS. We appeal to the government to take care of, above all, the Government is here to take care of state interests and national interests. The government is increasingly forgetting it. So this could be the continuation of that amendment by counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic, whom I spoke about about about half an hour ago. And we didn't have the minister's answer when it came to the amendment. The more irresponsible government and the more open representatives of the regime appear, the more open they are to the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Here's to mention what happened a few days ago at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. The German delegation puts the amendment to the proposal for a resolution of the Republic of Serbia, our parliamentary delegation, and the resolution is that we remind the public about the investigation of trade in KIM bodies, Serbian authorities. The SRS stance on the investigation of the crime is that the judicial authorities of Serbia and Albania must do so with patronage, so to speak to the UN. The government, or parliamentary delegation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Serbia, has proposed that the UN do so. What happened? That German lady put up an amendment and then, before the amendment was adopted, she said she had repented and that it was not good that she did it. Then what do we have? We have representatives of the authorities who say -- that we wanted something else, but if it's going to investigate EULEX in co-operation with Unmika, it's not bad, it's better than nothing. Stop doing that better than nothing, stop listening blindly to the EU. The European Union is an enemy of the Serbian state, an enemy of Serbian national interests. We will daily draw attention to the government of the Republic of Serbia to avoid this poor path that leads us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58085	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58086	Ladies and gentlemen, by amendment to Article 7(4), I request that the words of the Boskelean be written and that the word of Croatia be deleted. Under the legal proposal, the language formulation remains, belonging to Serbian culture. So Dubrovnik cultural creation belongs to Serbian culture. I explained that Boklejska and Dubrovnik literature are inextricably linked because of the related thematic literature of Serbs Orthodox and Serbs Roman Catholics Boka and Dubrovnik and the related migration of each other in those areas. So a culturally fully intertwined unique area. All of this is viewed in the unique archival documentation stored on one side in Boka Kotorska in Kotor and Herceg Novi and in Dubrovnik itself. On the other hand, Croatia in Dubrovnik is only beginning to be created in the second half of the 19th and early 20th centuries, so the editions of Dubrovnik literature concluded with 1867 cannot be associated with Croatian culture. According to the government, the amendment is not accepted because the editions of Article 7 paragraph 2 (1) of the bill do not belong only to Serbian culture. On the other hand, Croatia only starts to create in Dubrovnik in the second half of the 19th and early 20th centuries, so the editions of Dubrovnik literature end with 1867. So they can't connect to Croatian culture at all. According to the Austrian census of 1850 in Dalmatia, so Dubrovnik has no significance of Croatian name. Only Serbs Roman Catholics and Serbian Orthodoxs and several thousand Latins stand out, i.e. future Italians. To remind me, the Serbian nationalism's main ideology is that the SRS is national over religious, since religious divisions have only divided through history and thus reduced the number of members of the Serb people. The Serbian people are older than the period of religious Christian baptism during the 19th century, so there is pre-Christian pagan ancient Serbism. My discussion is not any political pre-election marketing of us members of the SRS. Everything I'm saying and what I was saying in the principle debate on the spread of the Serbian people from the south and west to the north of Istria and the Slovenian borders and scientific marketing, the scientific basis of Serbian nationalism exists precisely from a number of sources and serious literature established by the Western historical Serbian Orthodox and Roman Catholics. In the principle debate, I pointed out that Serbian old and rare books cover space from southern Dalmatia to the maritime coast of Istria and to the Slovenian ethical space. In his book, Serbs and Roman Catholics, so-called Croatians in the edition of the SRS, I have investigated explicitly, consulting the Austrian census of 1850, that the western Serbian historical ethnological media is going symbolically. Northern Istria, the town of Peroj, the Serbian Moravice, the mountain Kotar, and towards Žumberd. According to the list of Istrian Kvarner Islands, there were exactly 134555 Serbs, Roman Catholics and Serbs of Orthodox religion, about 60,000 Latins, future Italians and about 30,000 Slovenes. It doesn't matter about Croats and Croatians. The Serbs are still Roman Catholics, they have not started to bear the Croatian name, but certain Istra elements in the Krležin Encyclopaedia of Yugoslavia say that Slovenians, Italians, Croats lived in Istria, and this number of Serbs from 1850, 134555 Croats are mentioned there. So, the Serbian name was simply replaced with a more modern name of Croats. The so-called ethnological, western Serbian border I listed in my book has drawn far, 1873. year, Costa Atanaskovic Šumenkovic in his historic, ethnographic, geographical map of Serbs and Serbian countries, which was done according to research by historian Milos Milojevic, who is unfortunately animated in Serbian science. Earlier in 1846, Vuk Karadzic published in Vienna his famous for the history and languages of the Serbian custom all three laws, which is the law of the Roman, Turkish and Orthodox. In Vuk's famous work, Serbs were all and everywhere, written in 1836, it was found that Serbs were all those who spoke, and they were in Žumbert or Vranj, in a stokvahic order. According to Vuk, the name Slovenija was not adequate because it was about Serbs who asked to not be specifically called. It is little known to the general public that a writer and linguist from the Serbian Krajina Sava Mrkalj, born in 1773 in Sjenik, near Karlovac, Kordun, started standardisation of Serbian language, and died in Vienna. The hoove and the wolf greatly appreciated him for his attitude of the fat JERA, which, based on the rules of "write as You Speak" and with as many letters as in the language of the vote, reformed the then Serbian alphabet and proposed a new one, which the Wolf took as the basis of his alphabet. He also started writing grammar and language searches. On the ethnographic and philosophical and linguistic line of Mrkalja, Vuk, Milojevic and Kosta Atanasković was famous linguist Aleksandar Belić, especially with his book "The Dialectological Card of Serbian Language" published in Russian in St. Petersburg in 1905 and recommended for printing by the Imperial Academy of Russian Sciences in September 1905. In his book on Serbian dialects, Belic added a geographical dialectological map of the Serbian language to the mentioned line, west of Serbian stretching. The lines of northern Istria, mountain Kotar, Žumberak. The esteemed philosopher Belic later eased his teachings on Serbian dialects in the Yugoslav phase of the monarchic brotherhood and unity after the creation of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia because of the scientific survival and the need for the state to be the subject of the hypothesis of Yugoslavia as a combination of three old peoples, Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. So he was under certain ideological and political pressure in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and he began talking about the Serbian-Croatian language during that period in the 1930s. So more serious, scientific sources come to the same conclusion, the same geographical line of spread of Serbian language, Serbian dialects, Serbian Cyrillics and Serbian verbs, and so on, Serbian rare books. The general Serbian, Velic, to point out, shared a Caucasian, Tchaikavian dialect, which was further shared in the Ichava and Ekva and the Ekava Pronunciation. As a Serbian squad, he has defined the Chakove-Ikavian variant and the Stoqua-Ikavian version of the pronunciation. It is known that later than many of the authors, the waitings were rejected by Serbs and only attached to the Croatian cultural space. So this is an explanation of my amendment and especially the government's position that in this bill, Dubrovnik culture does not only belong to Serbian culture but also to Croatian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58087	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58088	With the right of counterpart Žutic, he points to the problem of Dubrovnik literature and the belongings of the literature, whether to Croatian or Serbian. In literary theory, however, this is not controversial. Today, Croatia's Dubrovnik literature is its own, regardless of whether it is the old Dubrovnik literature 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, the 20th century, and where it is the place and position in Serbian literature of Dubrovnik culture and Dubrovnik literature. Unfortunately, during the period of communism, literary theorists left out the Serbian literature of Dubrovnik and simply disappeared from Serbian literature. In Serbian literature, there is unfortunately no Dubrovnik literature in a hundred books published by the Serbian Literature Association. In Serbian literary criticism published in 25 books, there is also no Dubrovnik literature. In the 1990s, Serbian literary cooperative and Matica Srpske in Novi Sad released Serbian literature, and there is no Serbian literature in that part of Dubrovnik's literature either. So we consciously threw Dubrovnik literature out of Serbian literature. It is interesting to note here what Serbian writers Dubrovnik, Serbian Orthodox and Serbian Roman Catholics say. I will mention one, Mato Vodopic, bishop, member of the Roman Catholic Church, otherwise writer, collector of the famous folk treasure, which is declared a Serb Roman Catholic. He says, "The forces of us to be Croats, and that should be, if you don't want many to persecute you, even though neither we in childhood nor our fathers nor our grandfathers knew that name." So it's the '80s of the 19th century. The Croatian name in Dalmatia, especially in Dubrovnik, is an unknown name to Zagreb Oncil in 1900, when the decision of the Roman Catholic Church gave all Roman Catholics the task of pleading as Croats. It is a genetic engineering that was done with the support of the Vatican and Austria, or then the valid state of Austria. The project was submitted and wiped out by the Serbs of the Roman Catholics and after that they received pressures, under terror, received a commitment, instruction and a warrant to plead as Croats. One of the most important writers of Dubrovnik intellectuals in the second half of the 19th century is Ivan Stojanović, poet, historian, priestly face, who is delighted to say that he is a Serb both by origin and by sense. "Well, who is closer to me than the Serb race, the Catholic religion does not threaten me, does not prohibit me from pleading as a Serb." Unfortunately, in a later period, after Zagreb's Oncil in 1900, pressures began, etc., which caused this genetic change. It is interesting to quote the opinion of Serbian Roman Catholic Stjepa Kobasica who says, whenever it comes to Catholic Serbs, immediately think of ancient Dubrovnik, the largest oasis of Serbian culture until the 19th century. We must also mention the Serbian Roman Catholic Antony Strožilović, writer, historian, publicist who says "in history we are pure Serbs, blood in Serbian vessels that were born and carried out in all neighbouring Serbian countries, and spilled over the hills here to the walls of Dubrovnik", etc., etc. Look, the genetic Serbs wanted to plead, defend Serbianly, defend Serbian identity. Is the current government, especially the communist government, and this 90s, and this newest power has the moral right to allow someone who is a genetic Serb and who is fighting for Serbian identity to be kicked out of Serbian culture, literature that belongs to that literature. You see what this power is and what it does specifically. When we talk about Dubrovnik, not only are these Serbs Roman Catholics who emphasized their Serbianness and their Serbian identity, in historical terms historians, but now not Serbs, but we will start with Mavrov Orbin, Dubrovčanin, who says in his 1601 part "Kingdom of Sloven" that the towns of Dubrovnik are inhabited by Serbian people from the area of Puma and Trivunia and he in his 400 and some pages, 200 pages is dedicated to Serbs, 100 pages of Bulgarians, because he talks about Slovenes and only 10 sentences about Croats who he says is a distant people and a distant country, that he was a Croat would probably talk about Croatian history far more. One of the most significant historians of the 19th century, German Ivan Engel, in his history of the Dubrovnik Republic, tells Dubrovnik that it was an area inhabited by Serbs and the Romanised population of the former great Roman Empire, which during the period of the 8th, 9th, 10th century, and particularly in the 11th century inhabited the towns of Dubrovnik, but mixing with Slovenian tribes, predominantly Serbian tribes, lost their identity, culture, mostly Slovenian, or Serbian. For Dubrovnik, it comes from the word "Dubrava", when we mention this synonym today, each Serb says immediately Raguza, immediately goes to that Latin variant, i.e. the Italian variant called Dubrovnik. We are Serbs, we give up what is ethically belonging to the Serbian people and to the Serb being. French historian of the 19th century Fuža, in his travelogues from the Balkans, says that Dubrovnik's population is mostly of Serb races, we can also mention Croatian historian Ratko Nodell who said that Serbian and public institutions and families have been spoken in Dubrovnik since ancient times, etc., to prevail alongside Italian and Serbian etc. Here I mentioned the Matica Serbian Dubrovnik, it is very important and important, to say, because few Serbs know about the Matica of Dubrovnik, few Serbs know that only Serbs had two Matices, one in Novi Sad, which was founded in 1826 in Pest, and the other is in Dubrovnik in 1909. When we talk about this scientific, cultural, educational institution of the Serbian people, we must say that one group of enthusiasts, cultural workers, politicians and politicians have made an effort to restore work on the 100th anniversary of its founding 1. 8. In 2009. The work of this cultural institution has been restored. This is where I showed 16 representative thinking, two chambers of work, etc. In addition, a group of people from the Serbian Renewal Movement with Professor Milosavljevic led the effort, along with the government of Republika Srpska in the persecution of 2007, held a scientific gathering at which we collected a huge collection of Serbian Roman Catholics, Serbian Orthodoxs at the premises of Republika Srpska's Krajina, on the premises of the Serbian Krajina. Four chambers of papers have been published. Why is it important to emphasize all this? To preserve everything that is a Serb being and everything that is a Serbian tradition, Serbian culture in areas that today, unfortunately, are not territorially ours. But we have to commit, it's our country, it's our original culture, and we have to do everything we can to save it, save it, and have everything that's related to a Serb being in the premises of those countries, save it for all time. It is these two institutions, which I mentioned, that the Republika Srpska government, in persecution and the Serbian Renewal Movement, have made an effort, have collected huge structures and continue to publish everything that is important. Here I will read from the book of Laza M. Kostic, "Catholic Serbs", part of his speech. It is a well-known lawyer, politician, politician, versatile intellectual, who has published many works. He's talking about the Serbs of Primor, Istria, Dalmatia, Bohemian Kotor, Banije, Like, etc. He says: "The Catholic Serb of Dubrovnik represents one of the brightest points of our national movement. The Catholic Serb opened new aspects and spread the idea of Serbia and national identity. As a child, I admired them. I saw the apostles, the patriarchs, the tribunals. Each one seemed endlessly large, unattainable, and I am happy that at the end of my life, I have given them the opportunity to repay them in the name of the heart, to mention them, to tear them away from oblivion and to express their posthumous gratitude," and in that direction he published this book and a few more books, now I can't, I don't have time to talk about it. This is exactly where I see the great success and the effort made by the Government of Republika Srpska in the persecution, the Movement for the Reconstruction of Serbians, which has kept from forgetting 16 works and made a financial step in terms of providing financial resources without anyone's help, regardless of what you have addressed to various institutions, and also the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, which rejected us with a request, that is to say, the Ministry of Culture has given us some financial resources for the pride parade. To them is a more important parade of pride than the preservation of cultural tradition and everything related to the being of Serbs in the territory of Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija, BiH, etc. I must mention here, given that it is a mega-project, people who are responsible for all of this, who have made a huge intellectual effort and have financially helped this project, these are people from the Serbian Renewal Movement, Dr Petar Milosavljevic, Dr Radmilo Marojevic, Dr Milos Kovacevic, Dr Momcilo Subotić, Dr Nikola Žutić, academician Veselin Đuretic, Predrag Dragic, the playmates of intellectuals who selflessly agreed to the business to preserve everything that is between the other and the obligation of the state. This country doesn't care about cultural tradition, and that's why our amendments, those you didn't accept, and it's a shame that you didn't accept them, because they were founded in our practice. Our practice is very bad, the state doesn't care, it doesn't care about this country, and even less about the countries in the region. I was a member of a delegation in Macedonia who visited Serbs in Macedonia and listened to the cries of our brothers from Macedonia seeking co-operation, support in terms of preserving our cultural tradition. Macedonia is an original Serbian country where we have a huge number of monuments, a vast culture is now left at the mercy of the forces of globalism that rock and break, because they want to destroy a Serb being. This power must make a step, it must take care of all this. Until now, you have not done so, it is a sad position of this authority in terms of protecting our cultural tradition. In the end, I will only mention one parallel with what makes the current government. In fact, almost all countries in the world have their own scientific discipline about their language, their letter, and they call it different. In Croatia, it is croatistics, German Germanicism, and in Bulgarianburglists, only Serbs do not have their science, officially defined as scientific discipline of Serbia. As a rule, our scientific disciplines are called the Serbian language cathedrals. Everyone else has disciplines about their language, about their letter, about their written culture, we're the only ones who have cathedrals. See where we are? The Serbian Renewal Movement has been pointing to this problem for years, but there is no movement. The globalistic views of this have broken our intellectual elite that monitors all of it, calmly monitors and does nothing to enable institutions to shape one scientific discipline, and from all of it runs the SANU, the Serbian Mother in Novi Sad, and the ministers are not even to be spoken of, because they are only transient, they come here and so on. Everything behind the scenes agreed by the ministers, that goes away. It's a sad situation in this building, this law should make a step forward, but I think it'll be a dead letter on paper as it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58089	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems, above all, because of the public yes, it is good that more is spoken of this very way and specifically about this amendment and the laws that are on the agenda. These are extremely serious laws, because the cultural heritage of a nation is also a serious heritage and something that must be kept and cherished. Unfortunately, in Serbia, this is not an example and is well noted by counterparts Žutic and colleagues Buha, and unfortunately in addition to these laws that are being discussed today, and this has been repeatedly heard today, to propose to the National Assembly a much better one than the existing, cultural law. You remember how much it was said we didn't have that law, when you adopted it, now it's actually the same as it's gone. The SRS' stance on this is clear and we have always represented the opinion that Serbian national interests are kept, above all, through respect for historical facts through respect for Serbian cultural heritage. Our President, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, is part of his scientific work and has devoted part of his life to this topic, and in this sense I want to remind the public that Vojislav Seselj has issued "The collective works of Laza M. Kostic" and that it is a opus of incredible historical importance and interest for all citizens of Serbia, and above all for Serbian national interests. Vojislav Seselj's "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism" has also given what is necessary to read anyone who is seriously engaged in cultural heritage and politics and who is at all involved in serious social events. "The Roman Catholic Crime Project of the Croatian Artificial Nation", is also the work of Vojislav Seselj, in which many facts can be read, many data, just as a colleague of Buha quoted some Croatian scientists and historians who dealt with the topic. So, the view of the SRS is that this is an extremely serious topic and that, if you want to be serious about this business too, and this is not just a deviation of some draft law, take this and other amendments to the SRS, so you will be able to say that you have done something useful in historical terms for Serbian national interests. Of course, you can't do it nearly as much as our President Vojislav Seselj did, but at least try to be your role model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58091	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 8(2), I asked that the words "old Slovenian" be added after the words "kyrilic letter" and, after "language redistributions", add the words "glagolitic and Bosnian". It is stated in the government's explanation that the amendment is not accepted because the bill already covers the amendments. It is not clear to us whether they are, but it is important that the bill in this article does not highlight them at all, these two editions of Serbian language and Serbian letter. In light of this amendment, I have stated that this legislative proposal should ensure the protection of the Serbian verb and Bosnians from unfounded non-Historian capture from the Croat nation in Croatia and Bosniaks in BiH. It is known that the verb has long been adopted by Croats, although linguist Belic wrote about the verb as a Serbian dialect. For this occasion, I brought a rare and old book, which is "The Dialectological Card of Serbian Language" from Belic, in which he is just pointing out Serbian dialects and particularly points out as a Serbian dialect of Istrian and coastal verbs, i.e. waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58093	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The word is Mrs. Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58094	So New Serbia's parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 9(1). We suggested that after saying "the National Assembly declares" the point is deleted and they add: "in the obtained opinion of the National Library of Serbia". The first attitude is, namely, "the old and rare library building for cultural well-being is declared of great importance by the National Assembly". We felt that this part, to obtain the opinion of the National Library of Serbia, did not disrupt the concept of the law, on the contrary, makes it much better, because we believe it is natural for the National Library of Serbia, as a central national library and a reference institution, when it comes to library activity in Serbia, to be an institution whose opinion the National Assembly will respect when declaring a concrete library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. First of all, this delivered opinion will bring to the public, expressed in this way in front of the high House, shed light on many cultural moments and, to be free to say, educationally act, not only on this institution, but also on the citizens of Serbia who should be introduced through the work of this high House and its adoption of such documents and the content of these documents. No one is more invited than the National Library of the Republic of Serbia to make such an opinion that this home too commits to the adoption of such a document.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58095	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. You have the word, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58096	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to the bill on the old and rare library structure. In Article 9, paragraph 3, following the words "Mother of Serbia's Library", the point is replaced by a comma, and the words are added: "and on the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija National and University Library of KIM in Pristina". Our libraries that guard the old and rare buildings of which are three republics, are the National Library of Serbia in Belgrade, the Mother of Serbia in Novi Sad and the National University Library Ivo Andric in Pristina, based in Belgrade, but its funds remained in Pristina. It's still unclear to me why you're out of this law throwing out an AP kim. The objective of this amendment is to improve the text of this law. With such a language supplement, the Republic of Serbia protects the unique institutional cultural space of the Serbian people throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this article is a very important part of this continent and criteria for assessing the old and rare library building, which are for the first time accurately prescribed by this bill. The Kosovo government, however, the competent Kosovo Ministry of Culture and Youth, the self-called Republic of Kosovo, tried to push through two new laws on library activity and archives in 2003, but in time our state authorities, above all, have responded to the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia and our entire professional public, so because of the negative assessments given by world experts, these draft laws have been withdrawn from the procedure. We just had a similar situation on the World Heritage Committee of Unesco, this year in Paris, as it was prevented from stealing our identity. Which is why I find it incomprehensible that you have not accepted this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58097	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the clean system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the clean system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the title above Article 20 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the clean system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58098	With this amendment, I asked for a new position of 2nd to be added in Article 30 – the restitution of old and rare books from abroad by the competent state authority. I explained in my explanation that due to a dramatic reduction in Serbia's historic space during the 19th and 20th centuries, it is necessary for the state authorities from the new growing abroad to work to recover Serbian old and rare books in the Serbian nation's country of origin. First of all, the Republic of Serbia should restitute the old and rare books of the occupied Republika Srpska Krajina, which, as well as all the new states in the former SFRY space, which were created on the basis of the violently broken Yugoslavia, which was created on the right of the people to self-determination, which was voted with more than 95% of the vote should not be forgotten that the Republic of Serbia was returning to the Republic of Croatia various Serbian frescoes, the arts of the Serbian Orthodox Church from the territory of Republika Srpska, and even the horses of Lipicans were returned, i.e. assuming a new usurperative territorial Croatian order to the territorial and spiritual unity of Serbian Orthodox dioceses. The Serbian historical and ethnic space is also a cultural and historical space for the spread of an old and rare book. It is a space that must be controlled by the cultural and scientific institutions of the Serbian state as their inalienable material and immaterial heritage. I will remind Serbs that throughout history have appeared as a multi-confessional nation, so it is also necessary to take care of the old and rare book of the Serbs of the Roman Catholics, the Serbs of Islamic religion. Mr. Secretary has been in the Vatican these days and opened an exhibition of frisces, which is commendable. However, in order to improve relations with the Vatican, it should require the Holy See to help Serbia protect the old and rare Serbian-Catholic books. In the Croatian Papal Institute of St. Jeronima, which was named the Illyrian Institute of St. Jerome by 1971, meaning Serbian or Slavic through historical retrospectives. It should be insisted with the Vatican on the fact that the old Roman Catholic books from the Western Balkans and the Serbian books, Serbian authors, were, for example, Jesus - Ruđer Boskovic, Djivo - Ivo Gundulić, Jurak Križanić, books of various theological writers and others. On this occasion, I would ask the question of the old and rare books of the Lužič Serbs, the Serbs of Lutheran, Roman Catholic and Orthodox religions. Recently, Mr. Zivovic, a Serb adventist faith in Germany, visited the Institute of Contemporary History, which drew my attention to the problem of the old and rare books of the Lužič Serbs. So, regarding my amendment, I suggest that old books try to return to restitution, and those owned by other states, to protect themselves and to get to know the public at least their Serbian origins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58099	The title above article 34 and article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. There's no answer for word. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. There's no answer for word. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 38a be added after article 38a. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs to the 40th amendment has submitted to the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Mrs. Stojanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58100	We suggest that Article 49, paragraph 2, changes and that "Old and rare library buildings can be exported from the country in order to promote our culture and exhibits at fairs and exhibitions, but cannot be sold or alienated". My colleagues were talking about illegal trade in our cultural heritage. I don't know much about it, so I can't even talk about it, but I would remind you that this law in Article 7 defines an old and rare library building, so that I can explain why I don't think that if it comes out of the country, it can be sold or alienated. So the old and library buildings, according to the letter of this law, are old Serbian books, manuscript books in ancient Slovenian, Russian-Slovenian in Serbian use, Slavno-Slovenian and Serbian, published by 1867 and printed books in the same languages. Furthermore, also in the letter of this law, all books in these languages came up to 1800 are considered culturally beneficial, those created between 1801 and 1867, cultural goods of great importance. I believe the law must state that this part of our cultural heritage must not be alienated at any cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58101	Thank you. National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 49th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. There's no answer for word. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. There's no answer for word. The 56th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. There's no answer for word. National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. There's no answer for word. The 61st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58102	We wanted this amendment to link the former law and the law that will enter into force, because Article 61 says, "Sublegal rules for the implementation of this law will be passed within six months of the date of entry into force of this law." We have proposed that a new position be added after Article 1 which would read: "Until the provisions of Article 1 are adopted, sublegal acts will be adopted in accordance with the Law on Cultural Goods ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia"). 71/94) relating to an old and rare book. Under the general legal rules, all sublegal acts cease to apply on the day of the law's end, which is why we link this up, on the basis of which they were passed, and if the new law is not prescribed, then they continue to apply. Therefore, the adoption of this amendment is necessary in order to allow the normal work of libraries and state authorities in the period until the rules are adopted, in accordance with this law, or in the period until compliance with this law. I think this is just a technical matter and it took this amendment to be adopted, in order to avoid certain problems that we will have in that vacuum between one law and another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58103	Thank you. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. We've completed our review of the amendments. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the 3rd point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Mandatory Prime Ministers Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Poscura, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Svetlana Bjanović, Donka Bjanović, Gorica Mojović, Filip Stojanović, Nikola Žutić, Zlata Djerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Srđan Šamorović, Mirović and Muković. You have also received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, as well as the report of the National Assembly Legislative Committee carried out a principled search, in accordance with Article 157(3). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58104	We propose that Article 3 point 9 be changed so much that it would be slightly expanded. It's about defining what a new edition is. According to the "new edition" law, a subsequent, repeated or updated edition of the earlier published publications, in modified form, on the same or different media, and we suggest that it be added: "as well as any printing of copies over the number for which copyrights have been paid". Here's how we explain it. Issues are defined by the number of copies, that can be 500, 1,000, 10,000, and that's why copyright is paid. If this amendment had not been adopted, copyright holders would have been damaged if, knowingly, they had not transferred their copyrights for all issues. The subject matter of the amendment is the extension of the term "new edition". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58105	Thank you, too. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58106	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. This amendment refers practically to point 13 of Article 3. It is usually a member who speaks of the meaning of individual terms used in this bill. In particular, point 13 defines what deposit libraries are in the Republic of Serbia. These are those libraries that receive necessarily one of the copies of the publication. Here, the promoter defines and says that deposit libraries, within the meaning of this law, are the National Library of Serbia and the Matica Library of Serbia. What the DSS proposes through this amendment is that next to the National Library of Serbia and the Matica library of Serbia, it is added that the deposit library and the National and University Library of Ivo Andric is from Pristina. There has been a lot of talk today about why the Republic of Serbia, through all the bill's proposals, has to take care of the institutions that are having a hard time working on KIM at the moment, especially because the AP KIM is currently under occupation, which means that this is why we have to take care of all the institutions that are difficult to operate in the AP. That's why we suggest that this point changes that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58107	The People's MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Vervain Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58108	How much time do we have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58109	Six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're talking about a draft law on a mandatory copy of the publication. Article 4 above which the title "General Interest" stands for the obligation to supply a mandatory copy which is determined with a view to achieving citizens' right to free access to information, knowledge and other intellectual goods, etc. In view of the 3rd article, you say -- the National Library of Serbia and the Matica Serbian Library are concerned about the achievement of general interest. The SRS says the National Library, the Matica Library of Serbian and National and University Library of AP KIM, is taking care of the general interest. The SRS stance and the motive for why we have submitted this amendment in this text is that we are confident that this is how we protect the unique, institutional, cultural space of the Serbian people. Of course, parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia must take care of the preservation of this unique, institutional, cultural space of the Serbian people. When it came to the previous law, you heard how many problems there are in the territory of Republika Srpska, precisely because there is no preserved single institutional, cultural space of the Serbian people and now we want history not to repeat itself in that part of history, when it comes to AP KIM. That is why we believe it is necessary for this amendment to be adopted in this text. An interesting explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia is why the SRS amendment cannot be accepted. He says – because the National University Library of AP KiM in Pristina has never dealt with the affairs of the previous position of this member, which is delivery, collection, storage and giving to use a mandatory specimen, which is a matter of general interest. It goes on to say – because there are no necessary technical conditions. Wait, are we legally supposed to create the existence of even these technical conditions, and not to go through a line of less resistance if there weren't these technical conditions, we're going to wipe it out of the law like there's no National and University Library of AP KIM? This really is of great cultural importance and, historical and national and whatever you want, and this should never be left out. If you say, the government says the amendment is not accepted because there are no necessary technical conditions for the delivery, collection, storage and giving of this mandatory copy, then we can expect you to say that there are no technical real conditions for the life of Serbs in the entire KIM territory, and then that is the reason to delete it from the Constitution, as the National and University Library of AP KIM deletes from the proposal for this law. You're not good with all three laws. The minister also said in principle debate, and today in particular, he presented his good intentions, goals, desires, etc., but you can see that we are today talking about Serbian national interests that are being passed through all three draft laws and which are unfortunately neglected in all three draft laws that are being discussed today. We therefore draw attention above all to the citizens of Serbia and the public, we hope that this small number of MPs who will vote for this law, who are present here today, have really come to their attention what Serbian radicals are trying to do through the amendments, and not only to draw attention, but to try through amendments to convince you to adopt these amendments and not to create new problems and through these very important laws, which are important both in the cultural and historical and in the national interest, that you do not neglect and that you do not abandon the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, and in this particular case, the National and University Library of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58111	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58112	I would like the amendment to add a new position to Article 4 after Article 3 which reads: "Because of the exceptional scientific and cultural importance of the University Library in Belgrade, a mandatory copy is delivered." In line with the amendment, I stated that the University Library in Belgrade is a library of great historical, scientific traditions and great importance from the period of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. However, this bill does not mention it anywhere. The most significant libraries in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia were the National Library in Belgrade, the University Library in Zagreb and the University Library in Belgrade. That's why I think the University Library, by highlighting it in the bill, is giving meaning to what it should have in the existing network of library institutions. However, according to the government, the amendment is not accepted because the University Library in Belgrade is not a national library and cannot be depositary. A bit of an odd explanation, but by noting the law, it should give the library much more meaning in the national sense than it has. On this occasion, I would draw attention to the fact that Vojvodjan's autonomy has threatened and famous library of the Mother of Serbia, which was founded in 1832, will, after this proposal, become more independent and separate in a single network of Serbian libraries headed by the National Library in Belgrade. I'm afraid the library that protected the rich literary heritage of the Precan Austrian-Hungarian Serbs will rename and become the national library of the future state of Vojvodina. It should not be forgotten that Matica is a Serbian site of old and rare books and that it represents an inalienable cultural heritage fund of the Serbian people. A famous handwriting department, over which a hardworking director Stanojevic has been awake for the past few years. So the political tendency to the provisions of this small law on mandatory copy is, in my opinion, very present. Some provisions develop a unique library system for Serbia's networks. It can be assumed that the provisions of this law, if they do not change, will increasingly lead to autonomy in the library itself. Libraries, as well as states, are connected at European level but will increasingly separate at the institutional level of the Republic of Serbia, with military autonomy and Shiparian separatism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58113	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Based on article 87, I'm setting a one-hour break. We'll continue work at 15.05 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, we're starting our afternoon session. I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica-Djukic Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in light of the search in particular on items 4 and 5 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of Professor Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, invited the sittings to attend Tinde Kovac-Cerović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, Zoran Kostic, Assistant Minister of Education and Science, Branka Totic, Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property and Natasa Ćirić, Senior Advisor. The reminders work, a notice on authorised representatives. The PUPS parliamentary group is represented by MP Nikola Krpic, MP New Serbia – MP Zlata Đeric, MP group LDP – MP Nebojsa Randjelovic, MP group SPS-JS – MP Miletic Mihajlovic, MP group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica – MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, SNS parliamentary group – MP Mileta Poscurica, and SRS MP Radica Jocic. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papug, Radovan Radovanović, Momcilo Duvnjak, Nemanja Sarović, Bojan Mladenovic, Goran Mihajlović, Nikola Savic, Zoran Krasic, Srboljub Živanovic, Aleksandar Martinović, Vladan Jeremic, Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic, as well as the Committee for Science and Technological Development. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The river has a minister, Zarko Obradovic, so Mr. Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58115	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I would just like to inform the People's Republic of Serbia that the government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted 12 of the 26 amendments that have been made. The reasons for accepting these amendments are simply to improve the text of the law, or to specify the language of the law, or certain amendments to the application of the law. Also today, at a session held earlier in the afternoon, the committee accepted one amendment, whose direct basis for the application of the law. We accepted 14 amendments and very detailed explanations were given, as well as reasons why we could not accept some amendments. Otherwise, I would just like to inform the Assembly that we have accepted the amendments of the People's MPs Goran Mihajlovic, to Article 2. item 3), Nikola Savić to Article 2. point 8), MPs Canak, Kostreš, Jerkov, Papuga, Radovanovic to Article 4(3), MPs Đerić, Spasojevic, Markicevic, Ilic to Article 4(4), same MPs to Article 8(3), MEPs Bojan Mladenov to Article 8(3) and MEPs Djeric, Spasojevic, Markicevic, Ilic to Article 9th point 6), MEPs Canak, Kostreš, Jerkov, Papuga, Radovanovic to Article 10. Position 1 of the Parliament of the Imendment of Sarovic to Article 1 1 1 Đerić, Šarić, Spasović, Markićićić, Ilic to Article 12. item 1 of Item 3 of Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58116	Thank you, Minister. The word is Mr. Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58117	Thank you very much, Mr. Novakovic. At the beginning, I would like to point out that a few days ago when we had a debate in principle, we had two drafts of the Law on Optical Discs and amendments to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. For various reasons, most speakers have largely paid more attention to this second law on changes and additions to basic education and education, and this first law may have been unfairly neglected on optical discs, so for this reason we will today defend those amendments that have been accepted, as well as those that are not, so that few Serbian citizens can pass on what this SRS parliamentary group is dealing with in this law. In fact, we have submitted a total of 13 amendments. You've heard from Mr. Secretary that a total of 12 amendments to this law have been accepted. That's four amendments to the SRS. The first in a series is the amendment that I submitted to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 3 and refers to the definition of the material from which "glass master disks" are made. The promoter said these discs were made of glass or polymers containing data in digital form. You see, in order for this law to have a universal character even after five, ten or more years, when some new and better materials are found to be made of discs, I have suggested that a correction be inserted into the words "or some related material", so that this article now reads: "the voice master" is a disc made of glass, or polymer, or some related material. So, even when new materials are invented that will certainly replace the existing ones, it is necessary that this member has its full meaning and that was why we have submitted this amendment, which the government has accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58118	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58119	In short, counterpart Nikola Savic also made one small correction to this amendment, namely in the current version it was said that the production license is a document that approves the production of disks and production parts of the printers, and here we added the words "persons with a given production code" explicitly emphasized that only those legal or natural persons who have a manufacturer's code and thus become a member get a full correlation with Article 3 where this is and indicated, who and under what conditions can be concerned with the production of optical discs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58120	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58121	counterpart Zoran Krasic has submitted an amendment that is not accepted and refers to the definition of the person, namely, in Article 2 of point 11. It is said briefly that the person is legal or entrepreneur. The comment of counterpart Krasic is that whoever reads this in some way is in doubt, so the precise formulation by colleague Krasic is the following: "the face is a participant in the circulation of optical discs and production parts of the tenant with recorded contents marked by the relevant producer code, which can be a legal person or a natural person that is an entrepreneur". The definition of the original is, therefore, very confusing and incomplete and, in the case of the adoption of this amendment, this correlation with Article 18(1), which clearly states that imports and exports of optical discs and production equipment for these discs can only be handled by a person registered in accordance with the provisions of the existing law on the registration of economic operators, and it is clear that it is either a legal person or a natural person, who is also an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58122	National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58123	Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of Parliament, as regards Article 4(2), here it is defined that the producers of the code are assigned within 30 days of the day of submission of the requests. We believe and think that this deadline is too long, that it should and may be shorter, we have suggested an amendment to make it 20 days. You know, if someone decides to do the production of optical discs or its parts, if it takes 30 days to get the production code, so it needs to secure the room where the production is going to be done, it has to be registered, and then when it's finished, it's all applied for another 15 days, and I don't think it's all too long, and that's why we tried to cut this whole deadline in some way, and that's why we suggested that it be 20 days. You have explained here that perhaps this deadline that we have proposed is too short because in order to obtain a production code you also need the approval of the International Federation of phonogram producers in London. I'd like to ask you a question, do they have a deadline when they answer to us? So when we apply, if they respond within five days, three to five days, then absolutely this amendment is acceptable. So I ask the question of the Minister, which is the deadline when the International Federation suits us, what is the time limit, and in accordance with that deadline, then the amendment would be acceptable. The second question for the minister, you remember perhaps in the debate in principle I was talking about the problem of the optical disc importers, that they had major problems that started working in 2007, 2008. When they got the organization in 2009, now only briefly, from PI to pay the copyright fee, it was 4 – 6% for CD and DVD. In 2010, they receive the same claim to pay compensation, but not from the PI organisation, but from the OFFS organisation and they also demand compensation. By looking also retroactively for 2008 and 2009 and 2010 and delivering the invoice, I will tell you only about one company, where they were looking for 2008 and 2009. 11 million and the first quarter of 2010, two million more dinars, a total of 13 million dinars, and this requires that it be paid within three days. It's just that importers don't know what to do, who to pay. There are several organisations that are looking for absolutely the same compensation, and importers are in a great deal of trouble. The worst part is, it's all getting retroactive. So they can't know in advance what price they need to sell optical discs to make their work worthwhile. At the end of the third question would be, why do they even pay compensation for those disks that don't go for music, movies, etc. So, no copyright protection, just these discs go, they're sold in tenders, they're sold to ministries, companies, hospitals, military, militias, and these discs are used to store matter, store data. What kind of copyright does anyone have to charge? I would ask the minister if he is able to answer these three questions either now or in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58124	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58125	My colleague Mladenovic, two out of three of your questions refer to an area that is not subject to this law, it is about copyright and it is a practice that exists everywhere in the world, so we are no exception at all. As for your amendment and the reasons for not accepting this amendment, the Government considers that 30 days is a more appropriate time-limit for getting all these necessary jobs and getting a production code, because there is direct communication between the Institute of Intellectual Property and the International Federation of phonogram producers in London. It should be mentioned that there are several steps to obtain a producer code. The manufacturer of optical codes addresses the Institute with a request to obtain the code, the Institute addresses the International Federation of phonogram manufacturers for obtaining the appropriate production code which it is obliged to issue. After that, the International Federation determines the manufacturer's codes, passes, has no deadline, you're right, but our expectations that it will be quick and the fourth step is to assign the manufacturer's codes to the applicant. That is why we believe that 30 days is more appropriate for the implementation of this whole process and for this reason we could not accept your amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Technological Development Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. The word is Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to thank you for accepting the amendment. I think that by accepting the amendment, this third attitude will be more clear and precise. What I asked through this amendment is to put a deadline when the Bureau is obliged to notify in writing, or deliver an invitation, that the request be completed when it is not complete. I think with this amendment accepted we'll have a clear and precise view that it's within 15 days, which is missed to say when this bill was made, to be put in place. I think now this attitude will be far more precise and clearer and better formulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58127	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted this amendment. No one wants a word. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. The word is Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58128	I'll be very brief. With this amendment, we asked that the deadline, a request submitted to the Office by the applicant who wanted to extend the validity of the licence, was at the earliest 60 and no later than 30 days before its expiry. We put it to be 20 days before the licence expires, because we think they can do it in those extra 10 days and decide whether or not that application will be filed. Now with this amendment, since it is accepted, they will have a longer deadline, instead of 30 they will have 40 days. I think, in some ways, it's going to make it easier for them to work in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58129	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Mihajlović Goran.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58130	In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Optical Disks, Disc Production and Production of Production Equipment, only a natural or legal person who simultaneously fulfils two conditions can be engaged, which is to possess a producer code and a production licence. Both, so the manufacturer's code and license is issuing an IPR. Mr. Zivanovic's amendment applies to Article 12 and Article 12 provides for obligations of the holder of the licence, and, among other things, Article 12, says that the licensee is obliged to take reasonable measures, given the specific circumstances, to determine whether or not anyone has the right to reproduce any copyright protected material. This term "reasonable measures" is an undefined category, so counterpart Zivanovic suggested that instead of the term "reasonable measures" stands for "all the necessary measures prescribed by this law". This means that what is meant by this point of Article 12 is unambiguously prescribed. If we say "reasonable measures" then everyone can interpret it in their own way, so in the interest of everyone who deals with both production and traffic and renting these discs, it is necessary to define the said article as accurately as possible. I suggest that this correction proposed by counterpart Zivanovic be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58131	The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58132	The previous amendment and my amendment are to say connected, to Art. 13th and 14th. The SRS always opposes being placed in a member of the law that something must be done without delay or ended without delay, when something is not clearly specified, when it is not clearly defined. We're always about to set an exact deadline, to know what and what time to process it. We're for that in art. 13th and 14th suggested that when it comes to the withdrawal of the licence, as in Article 13, it was as if it were final, as if in Article 14 and when the authority which decides to withdraw the licence, without delay, as it stands here, in writing to the Bureau. I don't think the term "no delays" is adequate, that it's not good. We suggested that it be in 24 hours. You replied in your explanation that he was too short. All right. Then the board could set another deadline, whether three days, five days, seven days, you set a deadline that is adequate. We have asked this amendment to be precise, it may not have taken 24 hours, it may have been three days or five, but simply in every member of the law we insist that it be precise, clear and time-consuming and absolutely determined how many days it takes to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58133	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted together to the 18th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Mihajlović Goran has the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58134	Article 18. The Optical Disc Act deals with the import and export of optical discs, production parts, i.e. printers and manufacturing equipment. There are two positions in this article that prescribe who and how, therefore, a natural and legal person can deal with these imports. Col. Martinovic suggested adding a new position 3 behind Article 2, which would read: "if imports and exports of optical discs, production parts, printers or manufacturing equipment are found to be an object or a means of execution when illicit actions occur, computer data or their products in material or electronic form, and material damage is greater than a million dinars, illegal action is treated as high-tech crime". The reason why fellow Martinovic proposed this new position is because we recently adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to Fight High Technology Crime in this Assembly. According to the provisions of this law, the establishment of a special prosecutor's office, so-called A special Belgrade-based department, which would be responsible for the entire RS territory in terms of high-tech crime, and in the law mentioned above, one of the provisions says that under high-tech crime, a business where computer data in material and electronic form appears as a means of illicit action, provided that the material damage suffered is more than a million dinars. It would be logical to add that new attitude 3 here is very likely that optical discs can be one of the media that can consciously or unconsciously be in the position of high-tech crime, so that is why it is proposed to throw out and this new attitude that would certainly deter many from illicit actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58135	Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? The word has a Modchilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I have proposed an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 19, paragraph 2, and number 60 is replaced by 30. The estimated 60-day deadline given by the legislator to the market inspection to monitor the traffic of imported goods may sometimes be too long. The recorded material on the optical disc can be lost on its actuality. In order to avoid any disagreements, the SRS considers that the most optimal prescribed 30-day time limit for carrying out the inspection inspection is sufficient. Respect for that deadline would be in the interest of all links in the chain as copyright holders, as well as those engaged in selling and renting and renting or exchanging optical discs or manufacturing parts. This amendment is not only proposed by the SRS for the sake of order, but in the interest of these people dealing with this matter, or optical discs. What are the consequences if these people who deal with this wait 60 days at customs for market inspection to carry out surveillance? What good will they have after 60 days of these optical discs? I am asking and giving you one comparison of how it is possible not to keep two minutes of plastic packaging testes on customs duty in Kruševec, because two droppers cross customs in two minutes on Saturday, on a non-work day, all recorded, handing it over to former Dragutinović Minister Ljiljana Dragutinović, who said it was done – there was crime and abuse, someone earned 300,000 euros, this was made possible by State Secretary Mr. Djidić, Minister Ljiljana Dragutinović, who was still in office. This is just a comparison of what to do on customs. That's how it's gonna be with these optical discs, too. That's where we have the mob to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58137	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58138	A colleague of Duvnjak has no danger of the optical discs being kept at customs because they are optical disks with recorded content and are about music and movies etc. they are, of course, placed on the market by customs, and the law provides for a solution to notify the market inspection on the first working day of the month that certain optical discs have been subject to customs duty, then the market inspection only checks whether these discs have producers, they are on the market in any case, there is no risk of losing to the actuality and as you say in your amendment – the inspection markets have the opportunity to subsequently, after the optical discs are found on the market, once again verifying whether they are supplied with producer codes, since the customs office has already checked, regardless of the time of the month, the first working day of the month they notify, market inspection of the verification, is the essence of whether they have a producer code.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58139	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58140	First of all, in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I must thank Mr. Minister for the large number of amendments that we have submitted as well-intentioned intervention in the very proposal for the text of the law, so this is one of those few amendments that has not been adopted, and this is the one that I, in principle, drew attention to, because we felt, in Article 23(2), point 8. that it should be deleted. Here is what is provided for in the proposal for the text of the law, and it concerns the rights and duties of market inspection. The market inspection which supervises the enforcement of laws under its rights and duties shall be obliged to suspend until the judgment of the court of optical discs, production parts, raw materials or equipment for production, i.e. the multiplication of optical discs, if it raises doubts, we have been particularly skeptical to inform the holder of this law which is prescribed as a violation or violation of another law which is prescribed as a commercial offence or criminal offence, infringement of intellectual property rights and to inform the holder of intellectual property rights, i.e. organisers thereof. So we realized that this point should be deleted, because it leaves too much space to market inspection, or we think it leaves room for chicing entities that are doing business with optical discs by market inspectors. We don't have such clean inspection bodies in many areas, and we always have problems with the inspection that often lay down corruption, and what we specifically drew attention to, that's a word of doubt. The suspicion is too vague a category to be used solely on the basis of it to confiscate the underlying assets for the operation of the licensee. The suspicion leaves a great deal of space, so either it was meant to be different, or to reduce that kind of authority, and to that member of the law, we felt that this amendment should be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58141	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 24 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Science and Technological Development. Proposer representative Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education and Science, accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58142	Article 25 and Article 26 are connected and I can't do it without each other, so I'm going to be quick to comment. Article 25, which my colleague Nemanja Sarovic has submitted to the amendment, refers to sublegal acts to be passed within six months, as set out in the bill here. We have submitted the amendment not to be six months, but three months, because we believe that the deadline is twice as short and more adequate and can simply be implemented in practice. You stated in your explanation that three months is extremely short, that two regulations should be done, a rule on the appearance and content of a licence for the production of optical discs and a rule on how to keep a register, i.e. producer codes, issued licences and at the time of keeping a record of optical discs. Despite this argument, we continue to claim and stand in our position that for the making of sublegal acts it is quite enough three months, it is quite enough 90 days to make these two regulations, to do sublegal acts, only if there is a will, if there is a wish, this deadline is extremely sufficient. Also, I'm going to go right now about this member who's tied up, I can't go without each other, this law is being applied, it's standing here for the end of the sixth month of the day of entry into force, and we've suggested that it be the third month of the day of entry into force. We simply believe, as you claim, that this law is good, you think that this law will give you something, that this law, as you yourself have made, prevent piracy or in some way reduce it, so please, if you think it'll be good, don't wait six months, because then it'll only be applied next year, do it all in 90 days, in three months, so that this law is then applied since autumn.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58143	Thank you. Minister Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58144	We have estimated that the six-month deadline is more appropriate, but we will make sure that both regulations are done before, respecting all the necessary procedures, and we need to make one contract with the international phonogram manufacturer's Federation in London, although it is a team contract, because we still considered this deadline appropriate and to end all three obligations and then over six months, the law would start to apply. We'll probably finish this normative part of the job sooner.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-12-0.u58145	The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. This is what we've done today's work. We will continue tomorrow with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education, in particular, tomorrow 13 July at 1200 hours. Thank you for your efficiency. You were the best.
