ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pizzetti, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) on questions relating to coordination in financial matters between the state, regions and local authorities and initiatives in the field of sport, to which the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Dr Delrio, will reply. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. So let us turn to questions on issues relating to coordination in financial matters between the state, regions and local self-governments. The senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u6	ZANONI (PD). Madam President, kind Minister, I have three questions concerning local self-government. The first concerns the developments of the Stability Pact: everyone understands that it is necessary to contribute to the respect of the parameters of Mastricht, but the constraints of the Pact are likely to stifle Municipalities and the economy. What do you plan to do for municipalities below 5,000 inhabitants? Is it not enough to keep some indicators of current expenditure and staff resources and free them at least from the red tape of the Pact? In view of the current situation in the real economy, and in particular in the construction sector, are you considering excluding from the statement for the Investment Pact, and in particular those relating to safety, school construction and so on? The municipalities can be fly of the local economy even with small investments and immediately can be cantierabile. Also with regard to the project "6,000 Campanili" provided for in the so-called decree of the making, it should be specified that for the realities that see the entry in a year and the payments of the balances in successive years there is a derogation. The second question concerns the service tax and how and how to draw up the budgets of local authorities. The service tax will be important and for its application it is necessary to have certain times. The third question concerns the Provinces. A study by the UPI has recently been published on how much it costs to apply the bill on the metropolitan cities, provinces, unions and mergers of municipalities, from which it is clear that the announced savings of 11 million due to the cancellation of provincial administrators will be paid by the country 2 billion euros. Has the Minister taken into account the alternative proposal to reorder the Provinces put forward by the UPI, which would in the short term really lead to more efficient and effective savings and management, without any need for constitutional change?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u9	CERONI (PdL). Madam President, Minister, Decree-Law No 35 of 8 April 2013, converted into law by Law No 64 of 6 June 2013, has partially released the due payments of public administration debts to companies, amounting to 40 billion euros, which will be paid over the years 2013-14. To date, we do not know how many debts the public administration has accumulated towards companies. We cannot hide that the rules of the Stability Pact have caused a cloaking of public debt and have partly caused this mountain of public debt. Since 2013, the Stability Pact has been extended to municipalities with a population of between 1,000 and 5,000 inhabitants, pursuant to Article 31 (9) of Law No 183 of 2011. Isn't that a contradiction in terms? On the one hand, we pay the accumulated debts also through the Stability Pact and, on the other, we extend this mechanism to other municipalities (mountain communities, unions of municipalities and so on), so that a further debt will be created. Given that we are just at the initial stage of implementation, should we extend the entry into force of this mechanism, which involves a whole range of problems for the municipalities relating to the application of the rules, payments, commitments and control of expenditure for which the municipalities are no longer even equipped? By now the smaller municipalities share the secretariats and have difficulty in supporting even the normal administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ceroni, please finish your speech. CERONI (PdL). In conclusion, Madam President, I believe that, as far as the municipalities are concerned, the cuts made in recent years that prevent them from coping with the essential services for the population could suffice.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u12	MOLINARI (M5S). Madam President, Minister, I am speaking in place of my colleague Mr Bulgarelli who, because of his influence, cannot participate in the work. As you know, the management of funds in Italian municipalities, especially in small ones, is a very difficult operation and often the assets (when there are) amount to very few thousands of euros. From this point of view, we know that resources in the event of undue expenditure can be a serious problem. In many regions of Italy there have been cases of reimbursements to municipal secretaries, perhaps operating in agreement, for the transport from their home to the place of work. Some of these, the most striking ones, are currently being investigated by the judiciary. Minister, I would ask you, on behalf of my colleague Mr Bulgarelli, if you are aware that some local authorities are paying these refunds and if you consider it correct that a municipal secretary, even if he is exercising in agreement, is entitled to receive reimbursements for transport costs on the way between home and place of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u15	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, kind Minister, considering that Decree-Law No 101 of 31 August 2013 (so-called public administration decree), currently under discussion here in the Senate, provides for mobility procedures for employees of the companies involved, and therefore their absorption in other public companies, and that this operation could have a significant impact on the balances of local and regional public finance, it is asked whether the Government knows the number of companies involved, the employees of these companies and knows the amount of the debt of the companies that, according to the measures adopted in 2011 and 2012 (in particular, Decree-Law No 138 of 13 August 2011, and Decree-Law No 95 of 6 July 2012, should be consolidated in that of the ownership bodies. Consequently, it is asked to know whether there is an assessment of the impact that such an operation can have on the balance of public finances and how it is intended to deal with the problem of the accumulated and hidden potential debt of societies and local authorities, also to prevent the phenomenon from widening further.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u18	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, for years the municipalities and local authorities have been confronted with the difficulties of complying with the constraints imposed by the Stability Pact, which, as we all know, has a negative impact on investment expenditure. The Stability Act for 2013 amends the rules of the Stability Pact for Regions and Autonomous Provinces in order to include in this framework the new method of calculating final expenditure under the Pact, defined as "euro-compatible competence." Law No 183 of 12 November 2011 provides that, from the year 2014, the modalities of achieving the public finance objectives of the individual Regions and local authorities can be agreed between the State and the Regions and that such modalities are established by decree to be adopted by 30 November 2013. The full implementation of Law 183, with the consequent opportunity to regionalise the Stability Pact for 2014, is a strategic possibility that we all hope for. Despite, however, the deadline of 30 November is now at the door (practically tomorrow), the Minister of Economy and Finance has not yet adopted the decree, referred to in Article 32, paragraph 17 of Law n. 183. Since we believe it is urgent, we ask if the Minister does not consider appropriate the path of attribution to the Regions of a decisive role in the coordination of territorial finance, working in the appropriate fora to provide for the enactment of the decree that establishes the modalities for the implementation of paragraph 17 of Article 32 of law n. 183, so as to begin as soon as possible the phase of experimentation on the integrated Stability Pact already in 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u21	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Minister, I am speaking with regard to the powers of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano in respect of local taxes. As is known, with Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August 2013, the IMU on the first house was abolished. Unlike 2008, when the Berlusconi Government issued a similar measure, in the current decree there is no reimbursement for municipalities located in the two autonomous provinces, but a totally illegitimate coverage is offered. Since ours is the only reality to have legislative competence in the matter of local taxes, it would be appropriate and more logical to entrust the discipline of the IMU to the two autonomous Provinces; in this way it would be possible to avoid the emergence of persistent problems of unconstitutionality, consequent appeals and so on, also considering that the budget of the two Autonomous Provinces also weighs on the fact that the State does not finance the local authorities included in their territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Delrio, Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u22	Madam President, I will try to follow the order of speakers, although some answers will obviously be common to several questions. Firstly, as you know, a passage from the inaugural speech by the President of the Council on which the Government has received confidence brings back a clear commitment from the Commission to review the Internal Stability Pact for the various reasons that have been mentioned here: the Stability Pact, in fact, involves considerable programming burdens and bureaucratic burdens not only on the small municipalities, but also on the larger municipalities. The Pact has certainly contributed to the achievement of positive balances (which, for the municipalities alone, amount to 4 and a half billion euros) and, therefore, has contributed to the consolidation of the state budget. For its internal rules, however, it is a particularly abnormal Stability Pact compared with those in force in other European countries, where it simply requires a current balance and, if necessary, a contribution to the reduction of net debt. With regard in particular to small municipalities, those with a population of between 1,000 and 5,000 inhabitants, it should be remembered that the Stability Pact contributes to the positive balance of the state for about 800 million euros, which means that the abolition of the Internal Stability Pact for small municipalities would entail a similar cost. The revision of the Stability Pact, which has already been launched because it is considered to respond to this commitment through the stability bill to be adopted in mid-October, is obviously the primary responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. The common approach is to simplify it a lot and, however, for the first time in so many years, to reduce the pact objectives in order to free capital investment. Continuing on this subject, which has been raised in several speeches, I must point out that, as Senator Centinario pointed out, the regionalised part of the Internal Stability Pact has contributed significantly to the achievement of the objectives. Many regions have granted space to municipalities and this has contributed significantly to the achievement of important results. Certainly that experience is unanimously evaluated, both by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and by the Ministry of Regional Affairs and Self-Government, as an experience to be helped and strengthened. Therefore, with regard to the senator's call for full application of the Pact's regionalisation procedures, the government's intention is to quickly activate the body that should be responsible for defining these aspects, as required by Law No 42 of 2009: this is the Permanent Conference for the Coordination of Public Finance which, unfortunately, has never been convened despite the fact that it should have started its work already two years ago. In that forum, with the help of the COPAFF (Parliamentary Commission for the Implementation of Tax Federalism), we can define the new criteria, the new formulas and also the strengthening of the experiences, such as those of the regional pact, which in some way helped the central state and municipalities to achieve the demanding objectives of public finance. Again with regard to the subject of the Internal Stability Pact, a payment issue has also been raised. The mechanisms of the Internal Stability Pact have certainly been one of the causes of delayed payments. However, this should not be used as a justification, in the sense that good programming should have allowed not to accumulate too many late payments. However, it was certainly one of the main causes of late payments. It is therefore absolutely necessary to find a solution by changing the rules underlying the Stability Pact, precisely because I believe that they also help to respect the constraints that the administration has set itself and those that Europe imposes on us: that is, to make payments within specified deadlines. Certainly the government is busy. This debate has been going on for a long time and will be completed in the coming weeks: it will have to find its fulfilment within the law of stability. However, I would like to stress that it is our intention, before the law of stability, to convene the Conference for the coordination of public finance, in order to obtain the necessary consultation with local authorities and the necessary cooperation in achieving the same objectives. I therefore believe that I have responded to the main objections to the Stability Pact. Sending application back to the smaller municipalities is not possible at this time, because they are within the Stability Pact. As you may have observed, the draft law that I have presented and which has been approved by the Council of Ministers contains some facilities for minor municipalities: for example, municipalities that decide to join municipal unions remain exempted from the Internal Stability Pact. So let us try to promote, on the one hand, a process of reorganization and amalgamation of the municipalities and, on the other hand, to facilitate them not only with the incentives for mergers, but also with incentives for greater investments when related to the process of union. I would like to point out that only 10% of Italian municipalities are members of municipalities, whereas in almost all of Europe this percentage rises to 80% or 90%, and this obviously serves to provide more efficient services. As for the other more specific questions, the times of the service tax are those of the law of stability and we are thinking about it. The service tax will have to unite the real estate share TARES and the previous IMU quota, if rethought, and to join also a part of tax on indivisible services, as foreseen moreover in the original definition of law n. 42 of 2009 on federalism. We hope to define together with the Italian municipalities this tax that will become a pillar of fiscal federalism, we hope definitive and not transitory. As far as the study of the UPI is concerned, I must say that I find the premises and conclusions totally unacceptable. It is not true that cost centres will be multiplied. In the meantime, it should be remembered that the Government's programme includes the abolition of Provinces and - as you know - the Government has voted on this and the parties that support it are in favour of it. At this transitional stage, we believe it is important to have a large-area entity, which will have defined and limited functions. According to Professor Giarda's study, delivered a year ago, the savings resulting from the abolition of the Provinces amount to over 750 million euros. According to a provisional study, only with the limitations of functions the savings will be less in the first year, but surely under regime they will reach and overcome this prediction. It is by no means true that cost centres will be multiplied, for the simple reason that municipal cost centres already exist. It is therefore a wrong premise to think that from 100 you will go up to 1,300 cost centers. It is clear that if you start from the wrong premise all the conclusions are wrong: this is the key point. Of course, we can have different views on the abolition of the Provinces, but this is the government's programme and I think it is serious and consistent to implement it as it is established. The savings of the political staff alone do not amount to 11 million, as mistakenly - because of me and I apologise - it was written, for a refuso of the press, in the report accompanying the bill: it is 110 million euros of savings obtainable only by the abolition of the political staff, i.e. transforming the Provinces into bodies of second degree and no longer into elected bodies. The difference, therefore, is substantial. Certainly those savings will be there and, in addition to those, there will be all the savings obtained by the fact that there will no longer be functions in the fields of economic development, culture, sport, social services and so on, which will be merged at the head of the municipalities. I therefore believe that the premise of the study - with all due respect - is profoundly wrong. As far as Senator Zeller's solicitation is concerned, we certainly believe that the subject of the erarian reserve should be overcome. I agree, too, but this overrun has some complicated profiles. I have to postpone the full answer to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, because the question you are asking me is very complex. In principle, I believe that, in accordance with the Constitution and the Statute of the Self-Governments, it is consistent to give the Regions special status to manage local taxes. I'm sorry if I'm going so fast. The question that was asked by Senator Molinari on behalf of Senator Bulgarelli, concerning reimbursements, also concerns a more relevant issue of the Ministry of the Interior. As you know, the Agency for the Management of the Municipal Secretaries' Register has been abolished and competence is now at the head of the Ministry of Interior. I would like to anticipate what I imagine you will be told, namely that the secretaries who hold affiliated secretariats are guaranteed reimbursement for travel expenses. These well-defined cases are therefore governed by Article 10 (3) of the Decree of the President of the Republic No 465 of 1997. I think I have finished my answers with the question about the companies involved. Certainly there are data on participating companies and the question is for the Government's attention. Several structures have reconnaissance activities; in particular, the territorial public accounts (CPT) carry out the analysis and reconnaissance of these societies. Of course, the data are received, inbound, from the autonomous bodies (regions, provinces and municipalities) and, therefore, sometimes the answers do not arrive in time. In particular, we have had difficulties - which I imagine Minister D'Alia will have already reported - to receive personnel data. There is, therefore, a very serious problem - which you have rightly raised - concerning the overall database of these structures. Many regions - I remember the Lazio Region, having met yesterday evening President Zingaretti - are working to close, unify and rationalise these societies. We are accompanying and encouraging the regions in this work. Certainly - and the Government intends to take an early initiative in this regard - rationalization works on second-degree institutions must be built in a more consistent manner with European legislation, including the possibility of setting up a company in house, provided that all costs and possible gains are included in the consolidated financial statements, as you rightly recalled. This is good public administration and it is the direction that the government wants to give. The radical rationalization of second-level companies is one of the objectives that we set ourselves, perhaps even more important than the work on large-area entities, because it will allow us to achieve significant savings and perhaps even subsequent aggregations of scale. Not only do we need to reduce the number of such companies, but we also need to encourage the planning of industrial processes of private entry (privatisation), where possible, and industrial processes of efficiency. This, in fact, really represents a point of lack of competitiveness of our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u25	ZANONI (PD). Madam President, I am partially satisfied with the Minister's response to the Stability Pact. I understand that there is a sensitivity to the subject and therefore a willingness to make revisions. Of course, the fact that the service tax is included in the law of stability means that the municipalities by the end of the year should at least have indications and should be able to draw up their budgets at the latest by the end of February. I would like no longer to repeat this year's aberration, i.e. to have the opportunity to approve the forecast budgets by 30 November, which basically means no longer approving the forecast budget, but merely settling the final account. On the other hand, with regard to the issue of the Provinces, I would ask the Minister, if possible, for more attention, perhaps because I come from an area where the Provinces work well: there is a whole series of competences that, however, cannot be attributed to the Municipalities and that are precisely those of the vast area. Similarly, thinking of assigning them to the regions, especially if they are large, becomes complicated. It is a core of functions on which perhaps it would be worth working again.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u28	CERONI (PdL). Madam President, I am pleased that the Minister has made the same diagnosis of the disease: the Stability Pact provides a concealment of the debt. However, I am dissatisfied with the answer because, in the face of this problem, nothing is proposed. I am sorry, because you, Minister, were President of the ANCI, and when you were, you had a very different position on that. I realize that there is no billion euro that is needed to overcome the difficulty, but I would like to remind you that the Government has introduced a new principle. For example, in Decree-Law No 101 of 31 August 2013, which contains urgent provisions for the pursuit of rationalization objectives in public administrations, 120,000 employees are stabilized at the expense of the public administration, miraculously at no cost. Then, when there is the will to solve the problem, money is a problem that concerns others; when you do not want to solve it, you stand still. Thank you and good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u31	MOLINARI (M5S). I would just like to thank the Minister for his reply, which I will turn to my colleague Mr Bulgarelli, although it means that, if his interpretation of the rule is correct, the judiciary is working unnecessarily in disputes that have opened. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u34	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Minister, thank you for your evidence. I believe that in order to address such important issues it is essential to have a clear picture of the situation: a framework that requires serious monitoring of certain data. In the coming months - I promise you - we will be heeling the government on this issue. From now on I invite the Government to deepen on the topic, also in order to offer a precise assessment in terms of the impact of the adopted dispositions and of possible solutions to eventual criticalities, because this is not rationalization and we cannot buy with closed box. (Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u37	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, you have not answered my question precisely, but we hope that we will succeed in implementing Article 32, paragraph 17, of Law No 183 of 2011, which we discussed earlier. We trust in your competence and, above all, in your love for the public bodies you have shown in your previous assignment. We all know very well that the regions are waiting - they have said it on more than one occasion - for the implementation of paragraph 17. It is not only the regions, but also all the municipalities, especially the virtuous ones, which are currently being strangled by the Stability Pact, and - above all - those of its former colleagues and all those mayors who currently have the money in their pockets and could restart the economy and give answers to our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, however, we all know very well that they are there, stuck, and very often they also make a fool of their own citizens. At this point, we are all in your hands, given what you have shown us in the past.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u40	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I am pleased with the answer, partly because I am convinced that, with the cooperation of Minister Delrio, whom we know as a deep connoisseur and also a great friend of the self-government, we will be able to overcome this situation by separating the powers between the State and the Autonomous Provinces, partly because it is in the eyes of all that it is not good for the State to unilaterally arrange the abolition of the IMU against the will of the Provinces and the Municipalities, and then to settle the account for others.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u41	Let us now turn to questions concerning initiatives in the field of sport, which will be answered by the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Mr Delrio, who also has the delegation in the field of sport. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u44	IDEM (PD). Madam President, after the speech of President Letta on 29 April last, we can give for acquired both the value of the theme of sport that, unfortunately, the fact that the system of sport in our country is in great suffering. Today I would like to focus on one very important aspect, namely Law No 398 of 1991, which regulates the tax management of amateur sports associations. There are some critical issues - and I have already given you a list of the most critical issues that concern this management - that produce a great complication regarding the presentation of documents and the procedures to be followed. Another element of difficulty is the great interpretability of some terminologies. The criticalities I have listed often result in the decline from the status of amateur sport association and therefore result in fines and, sometimes, even heavier tax regimes. Ultimately, a bureaucratic and structural reorganization of the whole sector would be necessary, thinking that the vast majority of the real sports and amateur associations are led by simple people, with little bureaucratic experience, without lucrative purposes, who devote themselves to it after work, for fun or leisure. They must now respect almost more stringent regulations than those that commercial companies must respect and with absurd personal and property risks. It is also necessary to draw a line of clear division between those who really do sports amateur activities and those who use this container to mask commercial activities. I ask what the Ministry of Sport intends to do, with its offices, to thin out and simplify this rule. I would also like to ask whether, with regard to a reordering of the sport sector as a whole, it intends to enter into consultation with the world which will be invested in the solutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u47	CARRARO (PdL). Minister, in June of this year, 10,100 questions came to the fund for the development and dissemination of sports practice, which has EUR 23 million. I'd like to know when you think to give an answer. Secondly, we all recognise the need for a greater spread of sports practice in the school in order to make a qualitative leap for young people and the spread of sports practice itself. Pending structural measures, which are certainly not easy given the lack of resources available and the situation of the school, which is deeply uncomfortable, I would like to know if the Government shares the opinion of the PdL, which is that a very intense collaboration between school, local authorities and amateur sports societies can lead to very positive results. I would like to know from the Government whether it intends to present a bill or a decree-law or whether it intends to entrust itself to Parliament with regard to facilities for professional sports at a high level, namely, football stadiums and sports halls for basketball and volleyball. She let herself go through the last parliamentary term without reaching a solution. I believe that first of all we must agree whether the Government intends to act or whether it wants to let Parliament act; in this second case, we parliamentary groups will seek a dialogue on this matter. Finally, Minister, until 2000 the CONI had an automatism of financing determined by the income of Totocalcio. Now, because of the Totocalcio crisis, it benefits from the State's contributions. Can we return to an automatism of the financing of the CONI, which the world of sport wishes in a very substantial way? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would point out to those who have spoken or intend to do so that only one question should be asked, otherwise the Minister does not have time to answer everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u50	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, Minister, in the 2009-2010 school year, the then Minister of Education and the President of the CONI signed a Memorandum of Understanding for the revival of motor and sport activity in primary school, promoting the project called "Motor Alfabetization." Started in the first year as a pilot project, it was followed as an experiment in subsequent school years until last year, providing for the support of the teacher of an expert graduate in motor science and graduate ISEF. Successive monitoring of the project in its various aspects has provided results well above all predictions. However, after this first phase, there is no news to date on the continuation and implementation of the project of "Alphabetization motoria". Among the objectives of the programme was the establishment of the figure of the teacher of motor activity from primary school. Motor, physical and sporting education has been recognized in fact in recent years, and in all respects, as an essential training discipline. The National Health Plan has repeatedly stressed that physical activity plays a key role in the adoption of healthy lifestyles. We ask you, Minister, if this Government intends to continue and improve the project of motor literacy and whether it intends to set up motor and sports education as an expression of personal value by ensuring that it is carried out, within the compulsory primary school program, with a graduate teacher in motor science and an ISEF diploma.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u53	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, Minister, last April's ministerial decree governing the certification of sports activity provided for the mandatory medical certification for both recreational and non-competitive sports activities. After a few months, Decree-Law No. 69 abolished the mandatory medical certificates for the recreational-motor activity, keeping it instead for the non-competitive sport activity, generating no little confusion both in sports and in the medical field, so much so that the Italian Federation of family doctors asked a clarification to the Ministry of Health. With an explanatory circular, the Ministry confirmed not only the abolition of certificates for amateur recreational activities, but also that of the subsequent diagnostic investigations that the repealed legislation required. However, there remains the mandatory certification for non-competitive sports related to certain types of sports activities, leaving to the professional discretion of the certified doctor the execution of further examinations and clinical examinations. The circular does not mention the behaviour to be carried out in the event of requests from sports facilities that often, for insurance reasons, continue to require such certification despite the regulatory requirements, leaving to the doctor in fact the assessment of the patient and the standard of the certificate to be issued. Even within the limits of the competences of its Department, I repeat, as a matter of interest also to the Ministry of Health, I ask you what initiatives you intend to take to ensure a clear and unambiguous understanding of the legislation, to prevent the spread of non-compliant practices, which are harmful to citizens and contrary to the necessary protection of their right to health.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u56	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, in our case too, we would like information on the school-sport relationship. We know very well that Italian children have the highest obesity rate in Europe because they are the most sedentary and very often are in front of television rather than doing sports. We know very well that sport is a social phenomenon, an activity that has always helped to promote a positive and proactive lifestyle and an attitude to body care. Therefore, we ask whether and how the Government intends to promote sports training as an integral part of the primary school course and to recognize motor education and sports practice as fundamental values for the expression of the youth personality and as essential components of the curriculum. Above all, we would like to know whether it does not consider the structural integration of autonomous school institutions and sports federations to be functional through the organisation of an annual event open to all disciplines, which allows students to compare through participation in sports activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u59	ANITORI (Mist). Madam President, given the role played by light athletics as the queen of sport among the Olympic disciplines, its highly educational value for the new generations and the significant contribution made to maintaining the general health of the population, taking into account the future candidacy of our capital for the Olympic Games of 2024 and found the general abandonment by the institutions of both sports facilities - mostly antiquated and dilapidated - and the practice of the discipline itself, regarding the Capital, I ask the Minister to ensure that for a further six years, the concessions of some historical installations of the Capital (I refer in particular to that of Acqua Acetosa and that of Caracalla, which is in dilapidated conditions, with the lanes of athletic with holes) to Fidal regional Lazio, due to expire for June 2014. Fidal would thus commit itself to investing in these plants to improve their conditions. In conclusion, I ask how the Minister intends to intervene in order to promote and enhance in Italy this discipline now passed from queen to Cinderella. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Delrio, Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u60	Madam President, most of the questions put by the senators relate mainly to the subject of sport and school, so programmes that have already been implemented in the past and strengthened by the action of Senator Idem when he was Minister for Sport, which relate in particular to the issue of motor literacy in schools. The Ministry, also in the light of the experimentation conducted and that from the last results of the CONI it turns out to be highly positive, as in many you have emphasized, has in program the continuation of the plan. Moreover, due to the fact that Italy is one of the very few European countries in which motor education is not present in primary schools, it intends to extend the literacy project also to motor activities in the afternoon entrusting to the CONI the task, given the success of this experimentation, to carry out the above-mentioned afternoon motor activities in sports facilities. This requires a very high level of consultation between CONI, sports associations in general, local authorities and government. We consider this project to promote afternoon motor education worthy of all the funding that the Government attaches to the CONI. Therefore, the entire amount of annual funding this year, if the proposal we are about to fully define is accepted, will be donated to the promotion of sports activity in schools, to try to compensate for these deficiencies. Moreover, it should be noted that some regions - I am thinking for example of the Piedmont Region, which has a programme to promote motor activity in primary schools - can boast experiences in this area and many municipalities invest resources in this activity. I therefore believe that there are conditions, although it will not be easy to implement them fully, to start a large national motor education programme in primary schools. This is one of the absolute priorities of the Ministry, because we think that the putting into system, making governance on this objective, can produce excellent results. In the same way, the annual events of the school institutions of sports federations that already exist: student sports games, youth games, national sports day produce excellent results. They are all opportunities to enhance sports practice within that school area so important and - as has been pointed out by many of you - particularly affected by problems of childhood obesity and lack of motility. From this point of view we must certainly change and provide a much more relevant stimulus on these issues. In addition to the three programme agreements already under way with the Ministry of Education, University and Scientific Research, which concern specific investments in schools in particularly disadvantaged areas, in juvenile prisons and in motor literacy, we will also launch a new afternoon program to enhance motor education in a comprehensive way, including to make school and motor activity a way to prevent discomfort and marginalization and to make children stay in healthy environments and together with trained educators. I therefore share the thought of Senator Carraro, namely that there must be an ever closer collaboration between local authorities and sports associations, and I agree in particular that it must be the Government's task to sign collaboration agreements with the Regions precisely in order to multiply resources, which are obviously scarce. The question of recreating an automatism for sport has not been studied at the moment, but the Minister is available to the demands and possibilities that the senators wish to suggest, because at this moment recreating certainties of financing would be a remarkable success for the whole sports world. We will also try to defend in this year's budget the state contribution to the ICON, given the very fruitful collaboration we have had, both in the past and with the new management. As for the law on sports equipment, a bill was presented to the House. The government was ready to present one of its own. We should take stock of these very days with the President of the Council to understand how to coordinate the bill already ready for the initiative of the Ministry with this parliamentary initiative, legitimate, and however absolutely useful, because we also believe that this can be an advantage for the redevelopment of the sports plant, including what Senator Antinori pointed out earlier. It should be remembered that we have unlocked the procedures for sports credit and so we hope soon to have it back in operation. This instrument, even in the phase of discussion of the law, can be very useful in order to give force to this type of redevelopment, also in energy terms, of the sports plant. As regards the questions relating to certification for sports activities, as you have rightly pointed out, Senator Di Biagio, the subject is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. I certainly believe that we can clarify further what has already been mentioned, namely that, for reasons of simplification, the certificate for amateur activity has been abolished. On the other hand, with regard to the correct emphasis of Senator Idem on amateur sport and its tax regime, there have been many - she, Senator, knows them better than I do - tax measures, (facilities and facilities) aimed at supporting amateur sports companies and associations, which have sometimes given rise to varied interpretations. Therefore, a special commission has been set up at the CONI to study, in agreement with the Agency of Revenue, details of the implementation of the tax assessment. You have highlighted a very, very important problem. We risk, in fact, killing a constituent part of our social cohesion, that is, the world of associationism, which is not particularly equipped, especially amateurism, with bureaucratic obligations, VAT registers and depreciable goods. That is the reality. We must find a way, on the one hand, to ensure the protection and adequacy of the activity of the tax system facilitated, on the other hand, given the great discomfort complained by the federations and amateur sports associations, in order to arrive at a formula of verification that is agreed with the CONI and with the sports associations registered in the national register kept by the CONI in such a way as to avoid that these investigations determine the closure of sports associations simply out of ignorance or non-intended and certainly not serious failures. This is an absolutely serious matter, which we will try to deal with in conjunction with the associations, and perhaps in a meeting with them we will be able to obtain further elements. We also work alongside this body so that, together with the Revenue Agency, we can find more suitable formulas to save, on the one hand, the social and civil heritage constituted by sports associations and, on the other hand, to ensure the adequacy of the tax facilitation schemes envisaged. I think I've responded to almost everything, if not on the issue of concessions, which I'm not aware of, and I apologize to Senator Anitori. Of course, the revival of light athletics is under review by CONI and FIDAL, which we have heard. The specific point of the renewal of the concessions I believe is to be deepened, and at this moment I am not able to give the senator any guarantee in this regard, not having the elements to be able to give a timely answer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u63	IDEM (PD). Madam President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply. This is a very thorny and sensitive issue which, as I said, must also be addressed in order to ensure tax justice. In fact, due to the door of the law on amateur sports associations, unfortunately, there are many real commercial activities, masked, that enjoy a favourable tax regime, which must be marginalized, while it is right to facilitate amateur sports associations, often conducted in management and accounting by people who do not do this by profession. I think it is a matter to be dealt with with by the competent people, who are the managers of the associations and, let me tell you, even the accountants, who know very well all the cleverness, the criticalities and the problems related to amateur management.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u66	CARRARO (PdL). Madam President, I am very pleased with the part of the answer that concerns the financing of the ICON. With regard to sports facilities, Minister, I would urge the Government to take the initiative, especially because Parliament is clogged with decree-laws and it is difficult to include parliamentary initiatives. The cooperation between the school and local authorities is a very positive fact, and I stress the importance of the presence of sports clubs, especially in view of the fact that some local authorities and some regions are much less efficient than others, and it is not right for citizens to pay for this deficiency when sports clubs can complement the initiatives of local authorities. As far as the Fund is concerned, please let us know from the website, when you will reply, what the situation is.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u69	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank Minister Delrio for his reply and I hope that this motor literacy programme will be implemented and feasible, for this and for the coming school years.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u72	ROMANO (SPI). Madam President, I am speaking in place of Senator Di Biagio. I would like to thank the Minister for the information and the points he has put to our attention, in view of which we note a certain difficulty in guaranteeing absolute health protection for all those who, at amateur level, face sports activity. That is why I ask you, Minister, because of your recognized sensitivity on these issues to intervene in the times and in the ways you consider appropriate, in order to allow associations and sportsmen, even at amateur level, to deal with the sporting activity so defined in terms of safety, clinical activity and possibly also prevention of the problems that might arise.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u75	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, I am momentarily satisfied that the question I have asked has been answered in a satisfactory manner. The hope is that we do not stop here, in the sense that the sport activity in the school sector is not seen, as always, as a series B activity, together with a few others, and is not therefore, as often happens, relegated to an area not well defined among the activities carried out within the school. The hope is that also those structural activities, therefore also competitive, will be restored within the school world, perhaps together with sports clubs, in order to allow those students who excel in sports activities, as happens in America, to demonstrate their value.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u78	ANITORI (Mist). Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister, although he has not answered me in part, for obvious reasons. I would like to hang up to Senator Centinario's intervention by saying that the formative aspect of physical activity is very important, and in particular - I would like to stress this - not only of that turning point within the school, but also of that practiced outside. Now the school takes the kids to participate in the Youth Games, it starts them, and then there is no follow-up: after all it ends, both because amateur clubs struggle to keep the kids and create these schools, both because they don't have the money, but mainly because the structures are dilapidated and now possessing other types of disciplines, such as football. Light athletics is disappearing from our sports fields. I remember in particular the World Athletics Championships of 1987, to which I participated, and the young people then were so many; now it is the elderly who do athletic, the boys are no longer there, and it is a very important outdoor activity. Therefore, I still call on the Minister to consider this problem, because it is important that Italy also has its nursery at world level, and not only at European level, and that you start again with athletics.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u79	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I would like to thank the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Mr Delrio, for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-118.ana.u81	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 8 October, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5 p.m.
