ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglila, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00168 on the protection of the palace of Carditello (Caserta). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u4	Madam President, I am referring to the question by which Senator Pepe, together with other colleagues, asks for information on the well-known complex of Carditello's palace. In this regard, this Ministry, also through the careful surveillance of the territorial offices, has been following for years and with the utmost attention the evolution of the situation. Several times, in various meetings and demonstrations, as well as in communications to the press, the local Superintendence has complained about the difficult situation that concerns all aspects of the protection and use of the monumental complex, but continuing to carry out an action of punctual control over the state of the monument, carrying out periodic inspections, in agreement with the police and other territorial authorities, such as the prefecture of Caserta, and with the involvement of the command of the carabinieri and the command of cultural heritage protection. In the last decade, restoration works have been carried out covering the royal building and the two lateral wings, carried out in some cases also with emergency procedures, aimed at curbing the degradation curve of the entire complex. A further more recent intervention is still being carried out and is aimed at the recovery of the western octagonal tower that retains a very important original wooden cover still in situ. As regards the issue related to the auction procedure, the competent Superintendence and the Regional Directorate, with the support of the District Vetting of the State of Naples, have activated any measure to ensure that the alienation of the complex is subject to the authorisation provided for in Article 56 of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape in order to ensure, as far as possible, the protection and protection of the real site. I would like to point out that the procedures provided for in Articles 60, 61 and 62 of the aforementioned legislative decree n. 42 of 2004 (code of cultural goods and landscape), which allow the exercise of the right of pre-emption by the Ministry, the Region and other territorial public authorities, can be activated only after the conclusion of an act of sale, provided that, of course, the financial conditions exist. This Ministry, while not ignoring the serious economic situation currently facing the country, cannot but share any proposal that aims to allow the continuation of its institutional activity regarding the most necessary interventions to recover a complex that represents one of the richest examples of the architecture of the Bourbon age.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u7	BOCCHINO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for her timely reply to the question that we have tabled, which I am satisfied with not only because, in particular, we have learned that restoration procedures have been carried out (even very recent ones), aimed at safeguarding the complex and that we believe to be absolutely necessary, but also because all the protection procedures for the alienation of the property have been put in place. We also welcome the Secretary's proposal to share the actions planned for the future of this work, which is why we reserve the right to take action with legislative measures. In particular, for the management of the complex, so well placed in the territory of Caserta, we would like the involvement of associations or cooperatives of citizens, as happened in other cases in other Italian cities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u8	The following is Question 3-00106 on the employment relationship of INPS tax doctors. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u9	Madam President, in this Parliamentary act, Senator Bianco and other senators draw attention to the fearful suspension of official tax visits by INPS for the sick leave of private sector workers, and to the consequences of this determination on the work of doctors who have so far carried out this function of verification on behalf of the institution. In this regard, I would like to point out immediately that the INPS, at the express request of the Ministry that I represent, has indicated that it has never suspended such checks but that it has only provided for a temporary reduction of the medical examinations arranged by the office for the current year. This determination is justified in the recent regulatory provisions which impose significant reductions in the operating costs of public welfare and social security institutions. In particular, Article 1, paragraph 108, of Law No 228 of 2012 (the Stability Act for 2013) imposed cuts on INPS to its operating expenses in order to achieve, from 2013, additional savings in total not less than 300 million euros per year. The INPS has moreover specified that, in the course of 2012, on a total little more than 1,200,000 medical visits of control, approximately 917,000 have been arranged of office, for a total expense pairs to approximately 50 million euros, and that to the outcome of such visits it has been possible to reach a reduction of the prognosis only in 83,000 cases. Therefore, in the light of these findings, the INPS has determined to increase the efficiency of the medical checks through a more careful selection of the cases to be monitored, even if there is a significant decrease in the number of medical examinations carried out at the office. This decision is, moreover, in line with the need for an ever-increasing efficiency of administrative action, which the INPS has been able to cope with through the use of innovative technological tools, such as a data mining system, through which the choice of subjects to be checked is guided by an expert computer system, which guarantees objectivity, conservation and predictability of the actions carried out. In fact, through the constant elaboration of all the acquired and historical certificates present in the central databases, the institute is able to identify all those in constancy of prognosis. In this sense, the model of disease certification analysis is based on a particular statistical technique of analysis that allows to report the most risky certificates in terms of the adequacy of the prognosis, based on a probability indicator. Secondly, the INPS has used the so-called computer briefcases, which doctors are equipped with, for the preparation - at the home of the worker - of the computer report, which is transmitted in real time to the computer systems of the institute. In this way, the outcome of the visit is immediately available for the activities covered by the INPS and made accessible at the same time. The third instrument is a new procedure, called SAVIO, still being released, to optimize the assignment of visits to list doctors. The INPS also announced that it had assessed the risk of a possible increase in expenditure on sickness benefit as a result of the reduction of medical check-ups. In this respect, the institute pointed out, on the one hand, that workers' sick leave must always be justified by the presence of a medical certificate - which is supposed to be truthful in terms of the state of illness - and, on the other hand, that it has prepared at both territorial and national level a careful monitoring of the medical visits, through which any anomalies can be detected regarding the development of the expenditure for the management of the medical visits in question. In view of this, I would like to point out that the Institute has provided for the reduction of official visits to be made only on a temporary basis. With regard, however, to the redefinition of the current type of working relationship between the INPS and the fiscal doctors, according to a perspective of stabilization of the same, the institute has specified that, with the ministerial decrees of 15 July 1986 and 18 April 1996, issued in implementation of Decree-Law No. 463 of 1983, is confirmed the nature of free-professional activity of the relationship of trust collaboration that is established with the Institute and the full professional autonomy outside of any hierarchical constraint. Therefore, a redefinition of cooperation based on the rules of stability and certainty cannot be without an analysis of the constraints imposed by the current legislation on employment in the hands of the public administration and, more generally, by the provisions of Article 97 of the Constitution, which imposes the rule of public competition. With reference to the current public selection for the recruitment of 998 external doctors, the INPS confirmed that the relevant notice recognizes a specific score for the activity carried out in the public administration in the field of social security and welfare. In conclusion, to confirm the attention given by the Ministry that I represent for the matter in question, I would like to point out that a comparison is being made with the INPS aimed at seeking solutions that can go in the direction of a continuous working of the doctors in question and the establishment of a single hub of tax visits to be managed with the direct involvement of the administrations in various interests.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u12	WHITE (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Santelli for her speech and for having politely answered the question, but I am not satisfied with the answer. I shall therefore try to explain why I am not satisfied. Firstly, we are not faced with fearful suspensions: the visits have been suspended for two months. Secondly, it is true that they are filmed, but with a frequency of six to seven visits per month, which means an amount of about 250 or 300 euros for professionals. Thirdly, it is true that the Stability Act for 2013 provided for the reduction of operating expenses of the National Social Security Institute for around EUR 300 million, of which EUR 50 million are reductions in the field of tax visits, in the logic of coarse cuts, rather than linear cuts. This sector involves about 1,300 professionals: it will be true that they have a free-trade relationship, but let me have some doubts about this interpretation, because I fear that the free-professional relations that have lasted for twenty years and which also provide for incompatibility mechanisms have some serious problems of sustainability, also from the legal point of view. The INPS argues that data mining can be a replacement system: it may be, but, like all computer systems that work from the point of view of defining risk categories, it needs to be constantly informed. Visits are resumed, but at a rate of 90,000, 95,000 or 100,000, while previously they were made 1,200,000. I believe that this amount of visits, distributed in the country and for the various types, is not able to make this system consistently experienced. Of the 50 million euros of expenditure on the fiscal activities arranged ex officio, about 20 million were only part of the reduction of the prognosis. Let me say that the effectiveness of reducing prognosis depends also on how and when the tax visit is reported: if you point out and do it on the last day of prognosis, it is clear that you will not have a concrete result in terms of reducing the prognosis itself. I would therefore like to stress that we are in an extremely difficult situation: as you know, a possible 0.1% increase in absenteeism can lead to an increase in INPS spending of EUR 100 million. To date, sickness benefits - let us call them - are paid for approximately EUR 2 billion; a 0.1% deviation in absences involves an increase in costs of EUR 100 million, or twice the estimated savings. I therefore have the impression that we are dealing with a sort of accounting aesthetic rather than a logic of rationalization of expenditure. I believe and allow me to say that perhaps the intervention of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as a vigilant Ministry, should allow a more effective resumption of this issue, in the interest of workers, which, for the sake of charity, is legitimate, but also in the general interest of the Institute of Social Security, to which I recall that every year the State budget operates transfers of 110 billion euros, in addition to the contributions paid. Let me say this: the INPS claims that these are temporary lists, but they have been in force for ten to fifteen years and the average age of these professionals is fifty years. They have not been able to work differently and are now in a very difficult situation. These are the reasons for which - while thanking the Undersecretary and, of course, aware of the great commitment of the Ministry, the Minister and the Undersecretaries - I once again call for more incisive and different attention to the issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u13	Question 3-00171 follows on the voluntary continuation of the payment of contributions by so-called exodus workers. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u14	The parliamentary act presented by Senator Puppato and other senators concerns the problems of workers authorized to continue voluntary work. In this regard, I would like to point out, on the basis of the information provided by the INPS, that the workers authorised for voluntary continuation covered by the question received payment bulletins up to the last quarter, which, in the case of the most recent positions defined, is March 2013, with possibility of payment by the end of the following quarter, i.e. 30 June last. With regard to the payment of voluntary contributions to meet the pension requirement, it is recalled that, under current legislation, the voluntary contribution is intended to be carried out on a regular basis if the amount of contributions due for each quarter is paid during the following quarter. In the case of late payment, the bulletin shall be made for reimbursement. If, however, the authorised person intends to cover a shorter period than that indicated, sufficient to meet the pension requirements in force, or the minimum requirements to benefit from the legislation on the protection of the right to a pension, he may, by accessing the payment portal of the institution's website, modify and print directly the split newsletters and pay the corresponding amount, less than previously notified. Alternatively, this can also be done by making contact with the competent office or with a reference patronage, to request the preparation and issue of a newsletter of an amount appropriate to the desired period of coverage. With message No. 010406 of 27 June last, the Institute's territorial offices were interested in ensuring the usual advice to those who show the will not to pay the entire period and to limit the payment only to the contributions necessary for the right. I would like to point out that voluntary contributions paid are useful for calculating the pension, increasing the amount of the pension, and are deductible from the tax return for the year in which the payment was made. With reference to the provisions in the matter of safeguard, please note that it is possible for the institute to issue safeguard certifications only in favour of the subjects who are in the subjective and objective conditions referred to in Article 24 of the so-called decree save Italy, referred to in Article 22 of the decree on spending review and referred to in Article 1, paragraph 231, of the law of stability for 2013. The worker's option to pay the voluntary contribution as a result of individual or collective agreements in order to be assessed in the ceiling of the category of voluntary prosecution workers shall remain without prejudice to the existence of all the legal conditions laid down for the latter category. Finally, I would like to point out that in the event that the prosecutor pays voluntary contributions relating to periods which are temporarily beyond the date of retirement, the institution has ensured that it will automatically reimburse the contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u17	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government, but, with great regret, I must say that I am dissatisfied with the answer now heard to the question put by Senator Puppato and myself, along with many other colleagues. In fact, in Question No 3-00171 we asked specific questions to which no adequate answers were given, in my view, appropriate. It is clear that the problem is large, I would say gigantic, produced by a reform that, if it has determined positivity, has unfortunately also given rise to very critical issues, including the affair of exodus. Already having to resort, in order to define workers of our country, to categories such as that of exodati or that of which we speak today, the so-called voluntary prosecutors, makes us understand that the Italian population, or at least this portion, has been divided into dozens of categories that, in the various measures taken in the last year to try to buffer the wounds, have been divided and articulated. We asked quite specific questions in the question. We asked to know whether the Minister in address felt that it was not necessary to issue simple, clear and easy-to-understand instructions. We know that the INPS provides support, but the various requests made to our people in the light of the institutional role that we play by numerous organized committees highlights the need for further specifications, also considering that the question indicates the date of 30 June 2013, which has been exceeded since we are already in the first week of July. It is clear that no further clarification has been given to users and that - I repeat - the date has now passed. In addition, we had asked whether it was not considered appropriate to ensure that these workers still do not benefit from the safeguards provided for in the safeguard packages. In this regard too, the answer was not timely enough, unlike what we wanted. The topic remains on the table of the Government; of course it must be our care, together with the colleagues who raised it, to invest again the Government of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u18	The following is the question 3-00032 on the criteria for the inclusion of teaching staff in the completed rankings. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u19	Madam President, Senators Stefano and Petraglia are calling for regulatory initiatives to allow additional categories of qualified teachers to be included in the rankings, as well as to set up a new recruitment system and an extraordinary recruitment plan. I would remind you that the subject described by the interrogators has already been dealt with in a series of recent acts of inspection union, to which it was given feedback during the last month. Here again, however, it is worth remembering that with the financial law n. 296 of 2006 the recruitment channel constituted by the permanent rankings was closed, transforming the same into graduations when exhausted. The subsequent Decree-Law of 1 September 2008, n. 137, provided for the inclusion in the rankings of those who attended the so-called SSIS courses of the IX cycle and the biennial qualifying courses of second level teaching address (COBASLID) activated in the academic year 2007-2008. The above-mentioned courses - the two-year qualifying courses of second level at didactic level - as well as the two-year courses for the training of teachers of musical education and musical instrument in the middle school, as well as the degree courses in primary education sciences, have continued to be activated in the following years. This is unlike the SSIS which were suspended. This is the reason why with Decree-Law n. 216 of 2011 (Article 14, paragraph 2-b) an additional band has been introduced to the run-down rankings where to bring together the graduates of these courses in academic years from 2008-2009 to 2010-2011, thus ensuring to the latter an adequate professional outlet. Otherwise, it would not have been possible to place them anywhere else. The setting of the academic year 2010-2011 as the final date for the achievement of the title seems consistent with the overcoming of the enabling paths that - as you will recall - have been replaced by the active training internship (TFA). As pointed out on previous occasions, the Minister, during a hearing on the policy lines in front of the Chamber and Senate Commissions, announced the start of a careful reflection on the system of initial training and on the recruitment of teaching staff. With regard to precarious staff, the same hearing underlined the intention to draw up a new three-year recruitment plan for 2014-2017 to ensure the absorption of part of the staff serving in the school with fixed-term contracts.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u22	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his reply, but I am partly satisfied with it, because the Undersecretary has given us some information that is not really timely. We do not question the intentions of Mr Carrozza, with whom we had a hearing in the Commission to talk about the new plan, and we know that he has at heart - and this is one of his policy points - the theme of precariousness and school, but also of thinking about a reorganization of the whole sector. This is because in recent years every successive minister has unfortunately introduced training systems for the certification of teaching always different, producing plural ways of access that have not always turned into entry into a role, but rather have helped to create additional categories of precariousness. I do not want to retrace the whole story in the different stages and in the various financial laws that have followed, because the Undersecretary has already mentioned it, but when in 2011 the rankings have been updated to exhaustion of the teaching staff in reality have been excluded entire categories of enablers and enablers from 2008 onwards. This is unless you give us the news today that those of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 have also been included. Among other things, there is a very great anomaly, because, while it was stated that it was going to do some run-down rankings precisely in order to put an end to the enormous problem posed by the precariousness in the school, the Ministry continued to establish in the previous years these specialization courses, for which other figures of teachers were created with the title of specialization, but without the possibility of accessing the teaching. We therefore consider ourselves partially satisfied, because from the data in our possession the enablers of 2009, 2010 and 2011 to date are not admitted in this category. We therefore ask the Ministry to take charge of this problem even before facing a new arrangement of the whole sector and to find solutions through a recruitment system or an extraordinary plan of hiring. We believe that the large number of precarious teachers present in the world of education who have been teaching within our schools for years must find their own dignity as well as their own work. We are talking about a real social problem, because it is not only about young graduates, but about a generation of thirty and forty years old who often have so many qualifications accumulated over time and even years of teaching behind them, but who are still precarious.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u23	Following is the question 3-00086 on the Deaf State Institute of Rome. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u24	Madam President, Senator Lanzillotta is asking for a series of reports on the State Institute for the Deaf in Rome. In particular, the senator asks what are the times for defining the reordering regulation, what is the legal position of the extraordinary commissioner and raises doubts about the construction of a multi-storey underground parking lot in the building, hoping that the Ministry will intervene to suspend the initiative. With regard to the request on the state of preparation and timing of approval of the Institute's reordering regulation, it should first be recalled that a first draft of it was not admitted to registration by the Court of Auditors in 2004. The procedure was reactivated by the MIUR in 2007, with the transmission to the Ministry of Economy and Finance of a new version, which took into account all the observations made at the time also by the Court of Auditors. The Ministry of Economy and Finance, however, once again expressed itself adversely, not so much on the content of the regulation, but on the desirability of its adoption, considering the initiative in countertrend with the political-financial line of containment of public expenditure, which has long been pursued even then by the Government, inspired by a drastic reduction in the number of public bodies. The initiative was resumed in 2009 with the reposition to the Ministry of Economy and Finance by the MIUR of a further scheme of regulations, but also on this occasion the aforementioned Dicastery has reaffirmed its opposition. All this does not imply that the MIUR's will is not yet to complete the process of reordering. There is a commitment on the part of this Ministry to resume the issue, also with the MEF, in order to find a solution and to implement a law of the State. With regard to the position of the Special Commissioner, Professor Ivano Spano, the latter was appointed by decree of the Minister in 2007. No working hypothesis, Senator Lanzillotta, is currently being studied by the Ministry. We will be right in the short term and that will be an opportunity to check also the position of Professor Ivano Spano, who, as you rightly say in your question, was designated as early as 2007. In the second part of the inspection union act, the questioner detailed the plan for the construction of a multi-storey basement parking lot on the ground owned by the Institute and raised a number of concerns about the impact that this initiative could have on ordinary educational activities, users and also on the urban context of reference. The Ministry shares what it represents. There is no doubt that, given the scale of the intervention planned (there is talk of several underground levels of parking) and the continuation of the construction work for a long period of time, the activities of the Institute and the psychophysical well-being of all users will be seriously impaired. It is easily imaginable that during the works the structures for teaching and related activities will not be fully utilized and that the performance of the same activities, in a context that, due to the side effects of the excavation work of the subsoil, is compromised the environmental health, is extremely dangerous. The start of the work will prevent the Institute users from using the only green space available, all the more serious as the use of this space is mainly children, many of whom - I remember - have a reduced capacity for interaction with the social environment. For these reasons, the Ministry ensures all the support of the case, with the possible start of a technical table to identify different financing modalities of the Institute, that does not affect in such negative terms the educational activities and the structures prepared for this. I would like to assure you that all the relevant initiatives have been taken to prevent the problems raised by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u27	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Madam President, undersecretary Galletti, I am pleased with the answer, which conveys all the concerns about the fearful intervention in the structure in question, which, among other things, represents a green lung in the centre of Rome. Such intervention would not only affect the functionality of an institution that is unique in the capital, and in particular the activity of integration and inclusion between deaf children, multi-handicap children and deaf children, but would lead in perspective to the elimination of this green lung resulting in the felling of secular trees along the Nomentana route. I take note of the awareness and sensitivity towards the problem. Among other things, the Deaf State Institute of Rome has been recognized several times, even in ministerial scores, as a structure of excellence. It has recently been visited by the Ministers of Education and Agriculture and has become part of a convention with the Ministry of Agriculture aimed at creating gardens which, if the garden was dismantled, could hardly be realized. I trust therefore that the interventions announced by the Ministry, both to suspend the procedure of ban of the parking lot and to find other financings (in reality the purpose declared by the commissioner was to find resources for a meritorious agency abandoned to itself), lead to a concrete solution of the problem and in any case to find an alternative that, of course, must be linked to a definition of the legal form. I find it very strange that the Ministry of Economy and Finance unilaterally decides not to implement a state law for fifteen years; in this case the law changes and there is another institutional structure. On this point I hope that we will find a solution: either we implement Law No 59 of 1997 or we find another way, possibly in the law of stability. That said, however, in the blackberries, I do not think that a Commissioner can be left to life, whose powers are indeterminate and which has been in office for seven years. I believe that a principle of rotation is physiological and useful in all public structures and therefore, if we do not go quickly to a definitive structure, we hope that we will still assess what to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u28	Questions 3-0021 and 3-00205 on the situation of Berco SpA follow. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u29	Madam President, the questions raise a subject which is at the heart of the Government's attention at the moment. The story of Berco is marked by a productive and employment situation that has gone away worsening in recent years. 16.44 p.m. (continued DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development) Already by decree of 26 August 2010, at the request of the company, the Ministry of Labour approved a first restructuring plan, presented at the time, authorizing at the same time the payment, from 1 May 2010, of the extraordinary cash-integration treatment for 24 months for a maximum of 2,609 work units in force at the three establishments of Berco: Copparo, in the province of Ferrara, Castelfranco Veneto, in the province of Treviso and Bussano, in the province of Turin. Subsequently, in view of the particular complexity of the production processes activated and the permanence of a surplus of staff, the Ministry of Labour granted, on 30 October 2012, the extension of the restructuring programme until 30 April 2013, authorising a further payment of the extraordinary Cassa Integrazione treatment. At the end of this procedure (30 April 2013), having aggravated the crisis situation in the company, Berco communicated the activation of the mobility procedure against 611 working units in force at the units of Copparo, Castelfranco Veneto and Bussano. Following this initiative of the company, the Ministry of Economic Development, in agreement with the Ministry of Labour, conducted a series of meetings both with the company itself and with the unions, in order to examine the issues raised precisely by the questioners and the complexity of the crisis. Just in recent days a meeting was held in which representatives of the territorial institutions and representatives of the trade unions, together with the Ministries of Economic Development and Labour, were present. In short, a comparison has begun, on the one hand with the social partners and on the other with the company, on the economic and employment prospects of Berco, aimed at seeking a possible understanding on the solution of the crisis. Finally, the Ministry of Labour, in agreement with the Ministry of Economic Development, has convened for the next 9 July the table with the company and the unions for the examination of the mobility procedure, but within this it is intended of the two Ministries to ask the company to clarify to the end its industrial plan, to clarify the productive perspectives and positioning of market of Berco and, according to this, to make a reasoning on which are the most useful social shock absorbers to manage the situation; that is, we do not assume that the mobility procedure is the only possible tool. I would point out that society operates in the field of agricultural earth moving machinery (in particular it builds tracks), and from this point of view it is one of the world's leading companies, in particular on the so-called free market, that is, where it is produced for third parties. To understand us, the main company in the sector worldwide is Caterpillar, but Caterpillar produces widely under vertical integration conditions, thus providing tracks to its machines. Instead, Berco, like other companies, produces tracks for third parties and is one of the world's leading companies. Therefore, the government judges the future of Berco extremely important for our country, as well as of course for the territorial areas in which the plants are located. Berco has suffered a very heavy deterioration of its economic and financial conditions and a contraction of the activity certainly as a result of the overall economic crisis that crosses our country, as more generally the European area at this time, but it must also be taken into account that Berco has lost market shares and therefore has lost positions on the market. This process has been worsening during 2012 and in this beginning of 2013. So, the situation is very complex and difficult. The government considers Berco a company of fundamental importance for our country, so the key point is how to redesign an industrial strategy of the company that gives a productive and competitive future to Berco; within this perspective the best social shock absorbers can be activated from this point of view. I will be able to update the honourable Members after the meeting on 9 July, which - I repeat - is very important precisely to clarify Berco's prospects.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u32	BERTUZZI (PD). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, I take note of the story in chronological order of the facts, also because both the importance of the company and the involvement of all the institutional levels precisely because of the importance it holds in the economy of the Province of Ferrara and the Emilia-Romagna Region have allowed all the actors involved to follow the process that you have today in a punctual way reported in all its nuances. I want to emphasize - this is heartening that community - the recognition of the strategic importance that a company of this size has for the economy not of Ferrara, not of Emilia-Romagna, but of the entire country, together with the will of the Ministry of Economic Development to keep open a table at its own inside to signal how much Berco is part of a more comprehensive speech, relative to the presence of Thyssen in our country, of which we have lived and are experiencing the results of the decisions on the whole steel industry. Compared to what you have told us, I can say that I am satisfied; in the satisfaction, however, I rest my commitment to coming to report again. If it is necessary, I will propose another question with the other signatories, which will allow you to come back to this House and update us after the date, which we have been waiting for a long time, of 9 July, when the company will finally have to sit at that table at which it has either not yet presented itself or has done so separately from the other actors, preferring different tables. The real issue, as you said, is that of the mobility procedure which was opened on 8 May, a few hours after a meeting which, on the other hand, had led to the opening of negotiations with the social partners, which did not take place. It was almost the answer to that meeting, and it is a procedure that expires on 22 July; after that date, 611 redundant workers will become redundant in fact. It is crucial, therefore, that on July 9, if the Government has managed to hold an open table within the Ministry of Economic Development, it actually comes to understand what an end this company has in its own destiny. The real problem is that we have not yet seen any industrial plan; we do not know if there is any intention of sale at the end of the previous period of coverage of social shock absorbers. We spent the summer trying to figure out if there were any interest and what kind of interest might have been manifested towards the company. The sales opportunities have not been realized and, to date, we do not really know what Thyssen's intentions are, i.e. whether they intend to sell the company. It is clear that a restructuring destined for sale is different from that imagined in the continuity of the same management. You will certainly know that the representatives of the local institutions - I went with them - went, together with the representatives of the social forces, directly to Essen, where Thyssen has its seat. There was a first opening on the part of Thyssen's Director-General of Staff, to say: we trust much in the role of intermediary of the Government in this matter and we are bearers, also towards the CEO, so that the opening of the negotiations on 22 July will in fact be lifted and the opening of a negotiation that will bring out, on the one hand, a safety plan for workers and, on the other hand, a development plan for the company.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u35	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr De Vincenti for being here and for the answer he has given us. Although I certainly do not want to diminish the institutional importance and the role it plays within its Ministry, I would have preferred to have been present today Minister Zanonato, as Minister representative of a territory - Veneto, is my Region - which presents different situations that create social alarm for corporate crises, including the case of Berco, which we are examining here. He is therefore a Minister who can better know the reality of the Treviso area and, in particular, of the Municipality of Castelfranco Veneto. I note, like my previous colleague, the reconstruction that has been carried out, which takes into account the progress made in trying to have the business leaders and the social partners and the institutional bodies in the Ministry dialogue, precisely because the concern that we feel to date is what, unfortunately, the state of affairs tells us: a situation of corporate crisis that does not seem to have, as you mentioned, an easy solution. The situation is very complex and, as regards in particular, the Berco SpA plant in Castelfranco Veneto, there are 59 employees (and their families) who have - to date - no counts of their future. There is talk of mobility in the final stage, but the fearful real risk is that of dismissal. To date they have no knowledge of what their immediate future might be and what will happen. Therefore, I can feel partially satisfied with this response, because I welcome the attempt by the Ministry to launch more serious discussions between the social partners and - I repeat - the business leaders, who have deserted the last few occasions. I really hope that Minister Zanonato, precisely as a connoisseur of this territorial reality, will be able to think and provide for broader reasoning that will give more guarantees to these workers than can be the immediate consequences in their working life, but also with regard to the social and family impact. I hope that, at the meeting on 9 July (which I am pleased to see coming), initiatives will be taken to enable us to reason, as you rightly said, not only on social shock absorbers, but also - if necessary - on alternative measures. I remember that the employees of the branch of the company based in my municipality have made themselves available to alternatives, such as solidarity contracts, but it was precisely the company on this point that did not prove to be very helpful when listening. I believe, however, that the government must do much more. I am pleased that you have emphasized that the Ministry has knowledge and awareness of the important and strategic role that the company plays, not only for the Venetian area and for the territorial area of Treviso and the Municipality of Castelfranco, but for the entire country. I would like to remind you that it is a productive area that suffers from other situations of severe crisis, which gives so much in terms of contribution not only to work, but also economic, productive and social to the rest of the country, but which, as a counterpart, unfortunately gets little. I hope that at the meeting on 9 July we will be able to deal with a longer-term reasoning which also takes into account the Government's intention to adopt different economic and industrial policies. At this moment, in our country I am absent and I am witnessing a sort of immobility in this respect. It is essential to act, precisely because it is easy to imagine that the record of redundancies and redundancies that we are talking about today is going to increase in the course of the year, and unfortunately the recent ISTAT data show this. I therefore ask you, Mr Secretary, to speak to the Minister so that he can make every effort to give truly quick answers to these workers and their families about what their future and destiny will be. Following the meeting on 9 July, we will certainly ask the Government to report back to the House, as the previous speaker rightly pointed out, in order to have an early response and to understand the progress of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u36	Following is the question 3-00023 on the reorganization of Selex Galileo and Selex Elsag companies. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u37	Madam President, this question concerns the Finmeccanica Group and, in particular, the restructuring and reorganization of the Selex company within the Finmeccanica Group. The Government is following with great attention the process of reorganization and revival of the activities of the companies of the group. The new Finmeccanica leadership group has addressed and is addressing complex market situations that require rapid initiatives to improve competitiveness and overcome remaining imbalances. The new management group has developed a restructuring and revitalization program that is being implemented and further focused. The programme enhances the sectors and companies in which Finmeccanica excels, starting with aviation, helicopters, electronics applied to satellite and telecommunications technologies, transport and energy network control systems, traditional and nuclear electricity production equipment, etc. The current focus does not mean that the civil sector does not have an important future within Finmeccanica. We believe that there are spaces for a future of the civil sector. It is certain, however, that there is a need to clarify more the core business of Finmeccanica and also to give in the civil sector - but in particular I am thinking of Ansaldo Energia and Ansaldo Breda, two very important realities of this sector of Finmeccanica - also international partnerships that allow an improvement of the market position of these two companies and their integration into international synergies that strengthen its competitiveness and widen its market outlets. Coming to the theme Selex, I would like to point out that Selex is a key company in the field of electronics technologies for defence, but also for security systems, and also for the civil sector. Selex ES, that is Selex electronic systems, was born on January 1 of this year through the concentration of the activities of Selex Galileo, Selex Elsag and Selex integrated systems. The objective of the creation of Selex ES is the pursuit of better competitive positioning in the reference sector and a concentration on products of higher quality and penetration capacity on the market. The new company's declared vision is thus to be a strong point of reference for customers and partners, offering technological excellence in electronic systems and solutions to build a safer and smarter community. To achieve this goal, Selex ES has set out a path towards an investment policy aimed at the development of new products and the maintenance of core ones; the realisation of economies of scale necessary to reach the critical mass to compete on the global market; a business reorganisation plan aimed at creating a streamlined, efficient and more competitive company. In order to realize the strategic guidelines that I have just indicated, the company is already intervening on the following areas: rationalization of the product portfolio to increase the profitability, competitiveness and sustainable growth of the society; optimization of the engineering and production, focusing them on centres of excellence and internalizing the valuable activities; efficiency of the policy of purchase; optimization of the staff structures, currently distributed in 39 sites in Italy; rationalization of the sites to avoid the dispersion and the overlaps existing; sizing of the staff, in Italy, with an intervention in two directions. The amalgamation and exploitation of economies of scale, with the rationalization of sites and the optimization of staff structures, implies a reduction of working resources for 840 direct units and 1,098 indirect units in our country. Then there are also reductions in other countries, particularly in Great Britain, but at this moment I keep out of the picture I am describing. In particular, the plan of scaling of the staff is conditioned by the attainment of the targets of acquisition of the orders in the period of plan 2013-2017. On the basis of the industrial plan and the reorganization of Selex and of this plan of scaling down of the staff, an in-depth confrontation with the trade unions began. We started with a very important protocol agreement, signed on 20 February, in which the company undertook not to take any unilateral action without the prior confrontation with the unions. We then had an agreement with Federmanager and the trade union representation of the executives, for the reduction of 120 executives in three years, an agreement for the placement in mobility of 810 units and one for the closure of four sites in Italy. The comparison is continuing and in the last days of June an agreement has been signed between the company and the unions. The plan on which the agreement was reached provides for 1,610 structural surpluses, which will be managed with voluntary mobility aimed at accompaniment to the pension, with solidarity contracts, with the stabilisation of the precarious. In addition, 300 young people with apprenticeship contracts are to be recruited in the course of the reorganisation plan. In other words, the management of the surpluses on which the company has committed itself is carried out through the use not only of social shock absorbers, but also of the resources of the company itself, in addition to social shock absorbers, in order to minimise the impact on the protections for the workers involved, for example with a strong emphasis on accompaniment - also at the expense of the company - up to retirement, on solidarity contracts and on the stabilization of precarious persons. We consider that the recruitment process for 300 young people with apprenticeship contracts is significant. In announcing the agreement, the trade unions expressed a positive opinion on the overall text of the agreement, although aware of the sacrifices that concern a considerable part of the workers of Selex ES, convinced however that such sacrifices must be aimed at the rehabilitation and relaunch of the Selex ES. To us it seems that the plan presented by the company goes exactly in this direction, therefore with a strengthening of the competitive capacities of the Selex, and therefore makes a very important contribution to the productive future of the company.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u40	FADELI (PD). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, I have appreciated the punctuality with which the path has been rebuilt and I believe it is above all important to take note of the choice of the Government - if I have grasped it and understand it well - to invest a lot in the reorganization, but also in the competitive revival of Finmeccanica and all its valuable parts, including those relating to Selex. I believe that, from the point of view of those who asked the question, this represents a first ground on which, in the last period, the comparison has been positive. At the same time, I would like to stress that the agreement recently concluded with the trade unions is serious and important, both by the trade unions that signed it and by the workers who must support it, and, of course, by the company. I do not think anyone can escape the fact that that type of understanding contains an important choice, which the Undersecretary has rightly mentioned, concerning solidarity contracts, and not only the accompaniment to the voluntary pension of certain parts of the staff, the recruitment of young people and the stabilization of some precarious: with solidarity contracts the workers have certainly taken responsibility for a hourly reduction, but also for a reduction in their wages. The workers are therefore counting on the fact that the industrial plan, which the Government considers positively, must actually be a plan to relaunch the company. I believe that this is the most significant thing and, if I may, I think it is particularly important that the Government and the Ministry of Economic Development monitor this path to the best of its ability and that a table be set up to accompany and support it. In fact, I believe that public action, the Government and the Ministry must be supported, both from the financial point of view and from the point of view of strategic choice, which can direct this part of development towards a positive future. I particularly appreciated that, among the choices that the Undersecretary has brought back on behalf of the Government, Finmeccanica intends to invest also on the parts and products that concern the civil sector of its activity. In this regard, I call for a commitment from the Government in particular on the TETRA project, which is a technology adopted by the European Union and which therefore lies within a European linking dimension, as a digital standard for secure police radio communications, and on national investments in aerospace: in this way we are moving back to strategic points, on which this company can give a lot, for Italy and also in the context of international competitiveness. Although I am satisfied with the answers and how the government representative represented things to us, I believe it is important to maintain real support for the reorganization and investment of a strategic perspective, in a very short time and in a very short time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u41	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u42	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-59.ana.u43	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 8 July, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.16 p.m.
