ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5.30 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 30 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Senator Secretary to read the letter sent to the Presidency by Senator Mario Mantovani and received today.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u5	Dear President, I am hereby resigning from the office of Senator of the Republic to assume the position of regional councillor, as well as Vice President of the Regional Council of Lombardy, both positions incompatible with the parliamentary mandate pursuant to Article 122 of the Constitution. I thank my constituents for their extraordinary parliamentary experience and cordially greet you. Mario Mantovani.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u6	Since it is a resignation resulting from incompatibility, pursuant to Article 122 of the Constitution, the Senate can only take note of this. I would remind you that at the meeting of the Council for the Rules of Procedure of 9 April 2013 the powers of the Provisional Council for the verification of the powers referred to in Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure were extended until the formation of the Council for the elections and parliamentary immunities. I hereby authorize the Provisional Board for the Verification of Powers to convene immediately to proceed with the determination of the successor candidate to the resigning senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 662, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators D'Alì and Santini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u8	Mr President, the report will be presented by Senator Santini. However, I reserve the right to make some final remarks.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u9	I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Santini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u10	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law before us defines an important and awaited set of rules and procedures to speed up the payment of the previous debts of public administrations to companies, cooperatives and professionals, for a total amount of EUR 40 billion to be paid over the next 12 months. The House of Deputies approved the text by a large majority, with a number of amendments largely improving the initial text, and also with the contribution of the oppositions. The Senate Budget Committee, in turn, has made some limited changes that complement the framework of interventions in favour of businesses and local authorities, which have, however, left the overall scope of the Decree-Law unchanged. In particular, the issue of the past debts of public administrations that have remained outside the €40 billion initially mobilised by the measure has been addressed. For these, a double State guarantee has been provided, i.e. the granting of the State guarantee aimed at facilitating, in compliance with the planned public finance balances, the delivery of the related credit certificates to banks and other financial intermediaries, including the Cassa depositi e loani, and the transfer of State guarantee to the benefit of national, Community and international financial institutions, also aimed at speeding up and completing, albeit in various ways, the payment of the claims of the companies by 2014. Another important novelty for creditors of public administrations is the one that establishes for all administrations subject to the measure to make public, on their respective websites, by 5 July at the latest, the complete list of creditors against whom the balance will be made. In addition, it is envisaged that the credits covered by certification and recognition, in addition to those for supplies and contracts, will also include those relating to professional services. On the part of local authorities, some forecasts have been introduced which should make economic and financial management easier, especially in the current year, also because of the postponement of the TARES and the June instalment of the IMU, which are causing many difficulties in drawing up the budget estimates of the municipalities. These include the possibility for municipalities to be able to use the resources deriving from the urbanization charges in order to bear the expenses of a current nature, in any case not exceeding 50% of the revenues deriving from building concessions. In addition, without prejudice to the penalties provided for in the event of a breach of the Stability Pact, for the municipalities which in 2012 paid their previous debts to suppliers and companies, and because of this initiative they exceeded their spending limits, the penalties of the Pact are limited to the amount that is not directly attributable to the aforementioned payments. On this point it should be added that, on a proposal from the Government, two important measures have been envisaged in relation to local authorities. The first relates to the postponement of the deadline for the submission of forecast budgets, which runs from 30 June to 30 September 2013. The second concerns the non-accounting, with respect to the obligation to pay the IMU, of the buildings for productive use classified in the cadastral group D owned by the municipalities and which insist in their territory. In this regard an economic intervention is planned, agreed with the National Association of Municipalities that for 2012 and 2013, provides for a reimbursement of about 600 million to the Municipalities for these illegitimately required burdens. In substance, the measure contributes to the achievement of the public finance policy objectives set out in the Financial Programming Documents and updated with the 2013 Report to the Parliament. In this regard, the Public Finance Report, updating the macroeconomic and public finance framework, highlighted the need to complement the consolidation of public accounts with specific measures to support the economy, capable of addressing in particular the acute weakness of domestic demand. The amount of corporate loans vis-à-vis the public administration has so far been a significant weakness of the financial structure of the companies, for which the availability of liquidity is one of the necessary conditions to increase investment plans and to improve the ordinary management, as well as to limit the phenomenon, in recent months, of closure of productive activities. The release of debt payments to its suppliers implemented with the measure under consideration is, therefore, the instrument chosen to resolve the positive relationship between public administration and companies and to put liquidity in the system in a short time. The measures in the matter of the payment of the debts of the public administration previewed from the provision, of amount pairs approximately 20 billion in the second part of 2013 and of ulterior 20 billion in the course of 2014, would result, according to the estimates of the Government, a greater total increase of 1,2 points in the three years, of which 0,2 in 2013, 0,7 in 2014 and 0,3 in 2015. As mentioned above, for the rest of the debts a phase two has been foreseen, which, starting from the 2014 Stability Act, should identify the remaining part of the debts accumulated by the public administration, the size of which is not yet certain. At present, there are no reliable data on the amount of public administration debt to enterprises. According to reports from the Bank of Italy, a sample survey carried out on companies operating in the industrial sectors, non-financial private services and construction shows that the total commercial debts of public administrations to enterprises would amount, at the end of 2011, to around €90 billion (5.8% of GDP). More than 10% of the total was sold to financial intermediaries and is therefore already included in the public debt calculated under Community law. As for the distribution, about half of the debts would be due to Regions and ASL, while among creditors the largest share would be held by large companies and by those providing private services, although, in relation to turnover, to suffer more for late payments turns out to be construction companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. Specifically, the decree provides for the following measures in respect of the resources allocated to the payment of debts. The first: exclusion for 2013 from the Internal Stability Pact of payments of capital debt at 31 December 2012, both entered in the budget and off-balance-sheet, amounting to EUR 5 billion for local authorities. The same exclusion is also provided for by Article 1 for the regions with regard to certain types of transfers made by them to local authorities, amounting to 1.4 billion, as well as Article 2 for investments co-financed by the European Structural Funds, for an additional 800 million. The second: the institution (Article 1, paragraph 10) in the budget of the State of a fund to ensure liquidity for payments of certain, liquid and payable debts, with a budget of 9.5 billion euros for 2013 and 14,7 billion for 2014. The fund is divided into three dedicated sections, among which compensatory changes can be made, for the payment of certain, liquid and payable debts of local authorities, for amounts equal to 2 billion for each of the years 2013 and 2014; of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, for amounts equal to 2.5 billion in 2013 and 3.7 billion in 2014 for debts other than financial and health care; of bodies of the National Health Service for amounts equal to 5 billion in 2013 and 9 billion in 2014. The budget for the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, in the text approved by the Chamber, was reduced by approximately 472 million in 2013 and 1,272 million in 2014, to ensure the coverage of the burdens deriving from the vertical incentive pact, provided for by article 1-a of the measure. Another measure of the decree is the extension from 3 to 5 twelfths (of the current revenues established in the penultimate previous year) of the maximum limit of recourse to cash advances by local authorities until the date of 30 September 2013. In Article 5, there are also the increase in payments for tax refunds (i.e. compensation) of 2.5 billion in 2013 and 4 billion in 2014 and the refinancing of 500 million in 2013 of a special fund for the payment of central government debts. With regard to the criteria and procedures to be followed in order to obtain payments from public administrations, the measure, taking into account the different types of credit of the enterprises and the nature of the debtor institutions, has set 30 April 2013 the deadline within which Municipalities and Provinces are required to communicate to the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) the financial spaces they need to support the payments of the debts subject to the measure under consideration. For regions and local authorities with available funding, such payments have already been authorised by decree of the MEF. The Ministry of the Economy, with a statement announced on May 9, has evidenced that 1,500 demands have been received and that all available ceiling of 3.6 billion euros has been granted for requests for anticipation of liquidity in favor of the local authorities received by April 30. Therefore, part of the payments has already been started and the amount of resources allocated has been determined on a proportional basis. For local authorities, regions and entities of the National Health Service without liquid availability, a financing channel has been set up based on the availability of the fund specifically established to ensure liquidity for certain, liquid and payable payments, with a budget of 9,5 billion euros for 2013 and 14,7 billion euros for 2014. These institutions are required to apply to the Cashier for deposits and loans the resources necessary for payments and, upon receipt of the payment of the sums, they will have to pay off the debt within the next 30 days, providing certification to the Cashier. Also the Regions will be able to ask similar anticipation within the aforementioned date of 30 April, that it will be delivered with ministerial decree; for the agencies of the National Health Service, finally, the anticipation of liquidity will be carried out with directorial decree for the definitive parting of the sums to assign, including also of 2014. It is also recalled that, in connection with the release of public administration payments, an agreement has been signed in the State-Regions Conference. Regions that have applied for liquidity anticipation shall be allocated resources to make certain liquid and payable debt payments on 31 December 2012, or debts for which an invoice or equivalent payment request has been issued within the above deadline, other than financial and health care payments, including payments to local authorities, accrued on 31 December 2012. The Regions have attested that the requests for anticipation of liquidity for the payment of debts referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 2 of Decree No 35 of 2013, not extinguished on the date of April 8, are pairs to 10,598.78 million euros. As regards refunds on sums received, local authorities are required to submit a depreciation plan of up to 30 years and at an interest rate determined on the basis of the market yield of the five-year Treasury bills. For the regions and health authorities, a special contract with the MEF will be required to establish the methods of refunding the sums, which may also include a period of up to 30 years. With regard to the criteria for the settlement of debts, Article 6 provides that administrations are required to give priority to making payments to non-distributed claims (i.e. to undertakings); between several non-distributed claims, the payment must be charged to the earlier claim as a result of the invoice or equivalent request for payment. In any case, administrations will have to communicate to creditors by certified mail sent to the PEC addresses of the digital code, referred to in Legislative Decree No 82 of 7 March 2005, the amount and the date by which they will make payment (this is an innovation). The same article also authorizes the Government to promote the conclusion of agreements with the professional associations of the credit system concerned with the creation of monitoring systems to verify that the liquidity resulting from the payment of the transferred credits and the recovery of financial resources by the companies is used in support of the real economy and the productive system. In order to ensure the effective availability of resources for creditor undertakings, the sums allocated to debt payments may not be the subject of seizure or foreclosure; the impignability also applies to funds intended for the payment of compensation for unreasonable duration of the process. Moreover, it is expected that, for the purposes of the payments covered by the measure, the determination of the contributory regularity, to be carried out through the transmission of the single document of contributory regularity (DURC), will have to be made with reference to the date of issue of the invoice or equivalent payment request. Finally, with regard to all the provisions contained in Articles 1 to 6, it is foreseen that in the event of failure of the Regions and local authorities, the Government may exercise a power of substitution within the meaning of Article 120 of the Constitution, also with the appointment of extraordinary commissioners for the adoption of some of the acts provided for in these articles. In relation to the completion of the process of liquidation of previous debts, the decree introduces, in Article 7, provisions aimed at ensuring the full recognition and certification of the sums due by administrations for administration, supply and procurement, as well as for obligations related to professional benefits, of the debts accrued on 31 December 2012 and not yet extinguished. In particular, the Administrations are required to produce a complete list of debts to be honoured and communicated to the creditor companies, by 30 June 2013, the plan of payments, as well as to register by 29 April 2013 (which they have done to a large extent) on the electronic platform for the issue of the certification of the debts constituted at the Department of the General Accounting of the State. By next September 15 the ABI will have to prepare the complete list of debts to the public administrations that have been the subject of sale to banks and intermediaries, distinguishing between disposals prosolved and prosolving. On the basis of this list, with the Stability Act for 2014, prior to agreement with the European authorities, the payment of such claims may be planned through the allocation of government bonds, or provision may be made for the execution of appropriate financial transactions aimed at the cancellation of the debts of the administrations, through the granting in the year 2014 of the State guarantee intended to facilitate the transfer of the credits to banks and financial intermediaries. In addition, it is expected that a report on the state of implementation of the Decree-Law under consideration will be attached to the 2013 DEF Update Note. The report will also indicate the necessary initiatives, which should also be taken under the Stability Act. With regard to the compensation of certified claims, in order to facilitate the process of placing liquidity in the economic system and to speed up payments by the public administration, the Decree provides, in Article 9, for measures to simplify and detaxe the disposals of claims, as well as for the extension of the possibilities of compensation of commercial credits certified with tax debts, including by raising from 516,000 to 700,000 euros of the current threshold of compensation between claims and tax debts. In addition, the provisions in force concerning the compensation and certification of claims are amended, including that the procedure for the compensation of claims with amounts due on the basis of the institutions defining the tax claim of the tax litigation takes place only at the specific request of the creditor; the suspension of payments by public administrations in the event of the taxpayer's failure to comply with the tax obligation for more than 10,000 euros does not apply to those who have obtained the installment of payment; the certification necessary to access the compensation of claims with amounts due on the basis of the deflated tax claim institutions is accompanied by the indication of the date for payment. The aim is to facilitate compensation. Finally, in order to find the resources necessary to ensure the liquidity for the release of payments, the decree authorizes, in Article 12, the issue of government bonds for an amount of up to 20 billion euros for each of the years 2013 and 2014, with a charge for public finance deriving from the increased expenditure on interest resulting from this issue quantified in about 576 million euros for 2014 and 640 million euros from 2015. In order to comply with the public finance objectives, Article 12 itself also contains a number of precautionary measures designed to limit expenditure to the limit set. In this regard, it is expected that the Ministry of Economy and Finance will monitor the implementation of the measures introduced by the decree and that, if the risk of exceeding the programmatic objectives indicated in the DEF 2013, allows the Minister of the economy to adopt in time, after a special report to be sent to the Parliament or to be attached in any case to the Note of update to the DEF, the necessary measures for the remodulation of the expenditure authorized by the decree-law, or to arrange the limitation to the assumption of expenditure commitments or the issue of securities of payment according to the accounting rules in force. In addition, other measures relating to the introduction of the Incentivised Vertical Stability Pact are provided for in the measure, which concerns the regional relationship between local authorities and allows regional regions, provinces and municipalities to adjust the objectives of the Stability Pact. Article 6-a introduces a transitional rule to the Procurement Code which allows the performer of the works, until 31 December 2015, to promote an exception of non-compliance with his obligation in the event that the amount of the down payment, for which the certificate or the title of expenditure has not been issued in good time, reaches 15% (as opposed to 25% now in force) of the net contractual amount. In this way, therefore, the provider of the works is encouraged. Finally, some changes introduced to Article 10 covered the criteria for the reduction of the resources of the Provinces for the 2013-2014 period, providing that these reductions are determined in proportion to the costs for the purchase of goods and services in 2012, except for certain categories of the latter. Also in article 10 and in article 11, some norms, that here do not be detailed, have made changes in the matter of local taxes (TARES and IMU) for Regions and Provinces to special statute and in the matter of rebalancing of regional budgets, with particular reference to the Regions Piemonte, Sicily and, regarding the confrontation with the Government, Sardinia. In conclusion, reaffirming the importance of the measure to our examination, in particular for the system of the companies involved by a phase of serious economic and financial difficulty and an increasingly uncertain international context, it is hoped that the rapid approval of the measure, in order to allow the Chamber the definitive conversion into law of the decree by the deadline of 7 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alì, to supplement the speech by the rapporteur, Senator Santini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u11	Mr President, the complete report by Senator Santini allows me to make only a few comments on the importance - which Senator Santini himself mentioned at the end of his speech - of this measure. With the draft law we are going to solve a very serious disease of our national economic system, exclusive in the European panorama (and I would like to say western and civil), that is the failure of the public administration to pay the orders, the consideration of the works and the performances carried out precisely towards the public administration from the sector of the enterprises and the professions (let me point out that in the passage of the text to the Senate has been inserted also the reference to the professions). This disease has created great hardships for our companies, risks and not only: sometimes, unfortunately, the results have even been failures, layoffs and increase in unemployment. Certainly this measure in its initial formulation was not useful in defining the entire stock of debt, but also on this subject we must say that the government has moved not with caution, but with certainty of usable resources. The 20 billion in 2013 and the 20 billion in 2014 were also agreed at Community level and their subdivision - in part in the 2013 Stability Pact for local authorities, in part in public debt issues, partly in the form of compensation - includes what could be done. A further consideration I intend to make concerns the fact that this stock of public debt, as Senator Santini has already said, is not defined, and I believe that it is another legitimate demand for economic and relational civilization between public and private parties in our country that this definition is reached as soon as possible. I believe that in order to be able to decide the country and, therefore, Parliament also has the right to know how much public administration owes to the system of companies, suppliers and professionals. I would add that the Senate has introduced a very important change that concerns the possibility, through the State guarantee, to expand the available ceiling for these payments. Moreover, as a broad ceiling on the basis of guarantees to be provided by the State on the national and international financial system, this forecast also allows to reach figures not yet fully known. We believe that the Government, with this measure that will have to close, as Senator Santini said, with the third passage to the Chamber by June 7, has been put in condition, by the end of 2014, to pay the stock of the resulting debt at December 31, 2012. There is, of course, a very strong question mark about the future debt that local authorities and public administrations are accumulating against the business system from this year (to June) and that must be fully covered. The way in which this debt can be covered must be found in a strict manner, even in accordance with the European directive which requires such payments to be made within 60 days of their maturity; a European directive to which we must stick and which has helped to urge the government initiative. As I have already said, the basis for this initiative was a very strong need for a national economy. We are waiting for the government to propose as soon as possible a mechanism which, in compliance with the European directive, allows us to enter the system without waiting for debts to be accumulated for which extraordinary measures are then necessary. Particular attention has been paid to local authorities, both on the 2013 Stability Pact and for a partial and limited recovery of equity in 2012 to the system of municipalities as a whole. I am referring in particular to the speeches announced to the House by the rapporteur, Mr Santini, which we will highlight during the sitting, which act on certain forces (legal as provided for in the law, but morally illegitimate) that the application of the IMU had determined against the municipalities. As the rapporteur, Mr Santini, has pointed out, we are talking about the IMU on the so-called instrumental and productive buildings owned by the municipalities, which appeared to be a tax of the Municipalities towards the State, while the IMU is a tax that should concern citizens. It was an initiative of "interinstitutional" justice (let us call it so), for which we thank the Government and which as rapporteurs we gladly vary. These are the few comments I wanted to make. The others will be expressed in the examination of the amendments and in response. A formal note: this measure required very rapid implementation. For this reason the Government has included in the decree-law of operating terms, as obligations of its operation, the expiry of which is prior to the date of conversion by Parliament. It is a practice which in this case is justified by the extreme urgency of the measure, but we do not want this to become a rule. Any operational model that the Government gives itself in the decision of urgency, if implemented before the conversion into law, could prevent Parliament from making any changes that Parliament itself should consider appropriate. In this case, we consider its justification to be positive, but, Mr President, I would point out to you that we do not want this to become a rule, because it would prevent Parliament from being free and fully expressing its will. (Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u12	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u13	Mr President, first of all I think it is right to thank both the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government who, in a few days, together with the Groups, have done an excellent job, including in this measure, which the House had already extensively instructed, of substantial additions, as the rapporteurs have pointed out. I think it is also right, however, to remember that this decree-law is the last legacy of the Monti Government, and this is a measure that (I think it is right to remember this too) is adopted after years of unnecessary attempts to address the problem that has become now dramatic of the debts of public administrations. In the past, as you will recall, there had been many announcements, but never any concrete solution, so much so that when the implementation of this measure was started it was not even able to know the amount of the credits and the effect of these unsuccessful announcements was, over the years, to increase the exasperation of the enterprises and the distrust of both the entrepreneurs and their workers towards the institutions, because it is clear that in this case the interests of the entrepreneurs are the same of the workers, because there is an unbearable asymmetry between a State that claims to respect the duties, first of all tax, by the citizens and a State that instead does not fulfil its obligations, and this is something that deeply delegitimates the public authorities. However, it is also worth remembering that this is the first fruit of the new opening of credit that the European Union has made to Italy thanks to the prospect of closing the excessive deficit procedure, then obtained, after the adoption of the decree-law, a few days ago, thanks to the result of structural consolidation of our public finances, result that has resulted in the possibility of increasing the deficit-GDP ratio to 2.9%, operation that has been carried out with the resolution to update the DEF. And the decree-law adopted thanks to that modification precisely at the end of the activity of the Monti Government made a first operation, that is to allow payments for 40 billion between 2013 and 2014, operation that affects the deficit only for the share of payments related to the capital part credits, while those of the current part will affect the debt but not the deficit. Today the measure dismissed by the Commission, in addition to other important innovations concerning in particular payments relating to the performance of professionals, on which our Group has committed itself in particular, and to the Stability Pact, completes the operation of the payment of debts under Article 5-a. Adhering also to the solicitations of the governor Visco in the last annual report of the Bank of Italy, of other authorities, but above all to answer to the cry of alarm that comes from the world of the enterprises and the job, is realized what, between decree-original law and law of conversion, I think will be the only real action, the only real intervention of economic policy and support to the economy of the biennium 2013-2014. We must be very aware of the fact that if we have come out of the excessive deficit procedure, as Mr Saccomanni has rightly said, we have obviously not done so in order to return immediately afterwards. This means that the margins of expenditure and action of public finance for the crisis remain very tight, also because Article 81 of the Constitution, in the text that we have approved, nevertheless places very strict limits on the possibility of spending in deficit, and on the other hand there is no doubt that the data on the crisis of our production system and the fabric of our small and medium-sized enterprises, which in some areas of the country risk suffering a process of real desertification, are very serious. We cannot allow a heritage to be destroyed which would then be very difficult to rebuild. This crisis is certainly the result of a strong restriction of domestic demand, inevitable consequence of inevitable policies of financial restriction and increase of the tax burden. But it is above all the effect of a global crisis that has brought out the fragility of our production system, the fragility of a system that in the fifteen years that passed - the fifteen years of the euro - would have needed deep reforms. Today, of course, the path of reform must be resumed, and it must be pursued with determination, as we do not tire of repeating. In the meantime, however, our production system must be preserved and, in order to do this, the priorities are to put liquidity in the system and reactivate the credit. The changes made to the Senate go in this direction, because they allow to conclude the operation of payment of current part debts in 2013, and in 2014 also those of capital part, and to put immediately in the economy as much as 75 billion euros, equal to almost 5 points of GDP. This will allow companies to have liquidity and, at the same time, banks to improve their ratings and thus increase their ability to give new credit to the business system. But public finance will also benefit, because the payment of the additional tranche of debts will result in an additional revenue of about 5 billion for the higher VAT paid for additional invoices than the 40 billion and will therefore lead to an increase in GDP, improving our parameters. In short, it is a decisive action with a series of virtuous effects and it is an opportunity that we cannot waste. For this reason, now, the Government has a great responsibility to ensure that this operation succeeds and does not get stuck in the sands of bureaucracy, and it is up to the Government to prevent the phenomenon of unpaid debts from being recreated in public budgets. On the first aspect it is necessary to avoid viscousness in a complex path, which must be monitored step by step. On this there will be the constant commitment of Parliament and, in particular, of the Budget Commissions, which will push the Government to help it, not in a negative spirit, but precisely because we think this operation is strategic. Then it is necessary to avoid blockages at local level, and especially at regional level, where payments are linked to return plans and further expenditure reductions. The risk here is that the greatest difficulties are created precisely in the Regions that have the most problems of public finance and in which are also greater the economic difficulties and the risks of infiltrations malavitose. So we will have to be very careful in this regard too. But we also need to equip ourselves, from a regulatory and organisational point of view, for the payment directive to really be applied now. This means overcoming the system of legal competence, but also making public budgets transparent and readable, so that the scandal of opaque public budgets is not repeated and completely inscrutable for the government authorities and Parliament. The rules are there. We need others, let us write them, but the new management of the Treasury is expected to this important test, to show that the professionalism and independence of bureaucracies can be spent at the service of the interests of the country and not against them. [[Applause from the SCPIe Group by Senator Del Barba]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u14	Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Government gentlemen, at a time of lasting and terrible recession, such as what we have been going through for too long now, marked by dramatic indicators for our companies, with serious repercussions on families and even more aggravated by a very negative European economic picture for the credit sector, which has led to a contraction in exicial liquidity for the entire Italian economy (the notorious credit crunch), the blocking of payments by the public administration is a very serious circumstance that has now become unacceptable, as well as extremely risky. Well then the Monti Government, even at the behest of Parliament, to operate, through Decree-Law No. 35 of 8 April 2013, the release of 40 billion of the debt, which today we know total amount to the unacceptable sum of about 90 billion. The main novelty that this House is about to realize today with the conversion into law with amendments to the decree - as the rapporteur Santini recalled - is precisely the possibility to free these resources potentially in their entirety by next 2014, also using the guarantees offered by the State to financial intermediaries. Overall, this is a fundamental intervention for the entire Italian financial system, which finally sees the return to companies of the debt stock contracted by the public administration in a growing way in recent years and which brought with it, in addition to the financial effects already mentioned, the mark of distrust in the recovery and in the capacity of the State to cope with the interventions demanded by the productive world, where not paying debts and boasting promptly and peremptorily its credits had become a paradoxical necessity, no longer understandable by the citizens themselves. It is not only that, ladies and gentlemen, we are putting in place an urgent and no longer postponed intervention for material reasons, but we are intervening to restore that relationship of trust between the State and the citizen that must be the basis of this delicate legislature: we cannot pursue the ambitious objective of tax justice where the inability to fulfil our responsibilities and obligations is systematic and pervasive. I would like to recall here, not without a certain emotion, the most illustrious of my fellow citizens, the late Senator Ezio Vanoni, several times Minister of the Republic, famous for the reform that bears his name and who established the tax return. Vanoni with the reform wanted to lead everyone to contribute to the life of the state and greatly increased tax revenues while lowering all the rates then in force and deriving from the post-war period. He believed in the role of the State for reconstruction and for guaranteeing human freedom, but he was intent on researching, even on the ground, the right balance, denouncing himself that excessive taxes would stifle the freedom and development of individuals. He argued that: It is the duty of the State, of the administration, to be just to all; the effort that I have made so far is precisely this: to give Italian citizens the feeling that the administration is just, that the administration can come to give justice to all, to do justice to the little ones and to do justice to the great, so that everyone bears their share of tax sacrifice. These words, which we must treasure even today. Perhaps it is now clearer, ladies and gentlemen, that we, here, recover on the wool wire much more than a large amount of money that will be good for the credit sector, the real economy and the markets. Today we restore in a single stroke healthy criteria for a mutually correct relationship between the State and the enterprises, eliminating with determination and transparency a twist that has become emblematic of the crisis that together, state and citizens, we cross and that will show in the coming months its hardest face. In a measure built up for companies, of which the rapporteurs have already mentioned the essential aspects and of which colleagues will illustrate the beneficial effects, there are also measures that recognize the local authorities and in particular the municipalities, today in great difficulty, tools to operate in the emergency in competition with the State. The shift, although not deferred, of the application of the waste tax and services (TARES) and above all the extension until 2014 for the coverage of current and public green expenditures with share of the urbanization charges are to be understood not so much as a failure to the will to compose municipal budgets attentive to the balances provided by the single text of the local authorities (TUEL), but as the understanding of a necessary greater flexibility in the search for revenue in order to guarantee the fundamental current expenditure cover in the next two years, also because of some current uncertainties still to the study of the legislator. The Internal Stability Pact, which brings about the sharing of public finance objectives between peripheral and central bodies, may require a further revision, not to loosen its effects generically, but to make the interventions even more precise and shared, also in order to prevent the situation from happening again during this year. The mitigation of sanctions for municipalities that have not complied with the Pact solely to pay the debt that was the subject of this intervention, is not a loosening of the tension on the Pact itself, but a targeted and circumscribed deepening, going to regulate precise case studies and without producing in any way a sanatoria that would have devastating effects in this search for collaboration and continuous tension to the improvement of the mechanisms of control and management of public expenditure. Dear colleagues (and I am about to conclude), we have started, with determination and conviction, in the examination of the decree and its possible improvements, a new phase of correctness and trust, taking care to restore that just cooperation between the enterprises and the state that we want is one of the fundamental pillars that directs recovery and feeds the rediscovered propensity to invest and operate laboriously that, alone, can restore the well-being of our citizens for which we mean our so high task. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Fravezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u16	I inform you that the Provisional Board for the verification of the powers has communicated that, it is necessary to provide, pursuant to article 19 of the legislative decree 20 December 1993, n. 533, to the attribution of the seat rendered vacant in the Lombardy Region following the resignation of Senator Mario Mantovani, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned senator belonged is Lionello Marco Pagnoncelli. I acknowledge the Provisional Council for the verification of the powers of this communication and proclaim Senator Lionello Marco Pagnoncelli. [[Applause]] I warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation. 17.54 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u17	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u18	Madam President, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Senators-Rapporteurs for this measure which, with great efficiency, has reconstructed the aims and objectives of this measure which, indeed, this very House, with a united and determined voice, brought to the House with a special motion, asking the Monti Government to put an end, by means of a targeted, effective and timely intervention to a genuine injustice, not only detrimental to the right to find refreshment with the payment of goods and services but also detrimental, perhaps, to the constitutional principles, detrimental to the principles of democracy where the law is central and priority. We specifically said that the measure was to be applauded but we also pointed out the need to put it into action, for a series of critical issues that had been identified. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, we needed to give a timely and concrete signal to reverse a trend that basically saw the inflexible state tax collector with a paradoxical role that essentially turned to those who were, in fact, creditors even before they were debtors. A serious problem that has inevitably transformed an economic issue into a real social emergency because of the repercussions on the stability of our companies, on employment levels and, indeed, on the perception of a state that as a friend of the citizen, as a supporter of the weak, as defender of rights, was considered the opponent from whom to defend himself, and sometimes even in a somewhat extreme vision, the executioner to be fought because he was able to extend the powerful hand of Equitalia around the neck of the taxpayer-debtor, who was also paradoxically foreclosed the possibility of access to credit. How many companies have been brought to their knees, ladies and gentlemen, how many failures and how many jobs have been lost! And how many human lives sacrificed on the altar of a lost dignity and were the victim of a tearing desperation! Today we are here to put an end to an injustice. And the correction that is introduced by the decree appears most necessary. We have corrected too long a time, a labyrinth of obsessive and harmful bureaucracy, excesses of administrative discretion that never do well, a mechanism of compensation between claims and debts practically zero and of course we have left room for the principles of simplification and speed that must instead be priority and must be the watchword of a slender state that meets companies and supports them, especially at times of particular difficulty. Of course, 40 billion are few for 2013 and 2014, in view of the fact that the Bank of Italy estimates debts in about 90 billion euros, equal to 5% of GDP. In a country where the average payment times of public administrations for supplies, services and contracts have now reached intolerable levels, it is clear that the maturity of private and public payments reaches much higher figures. But in such a difficult and delicate economic context, a concrete signal had to be given immediately to the suffering of companies and, consequently, of workers and families. Basically the best is the enemy of good: today we are content with this sum, waiting to be able to proceed in the same direction in the times that follow. It is clear that in the face of a company that is forced to close its doors because it fails to collect its claims, there are workers who lose their jobs and a family that loses its source of livelihood. From this point of view, therefore, this first measure takes on an important political and economic significance in the context of the current international economic and financial crisis, which, among other things, has caused a worrying phenomenon of credit crunch towards companies, increasingly in difficulty in accessing bank credit and all too often suddenly called to return to their debt exposures. In the previous parliamentary term we were not few in this same House, ladies and gentlemen, to demand measures for fairness and development capable of compensating for the policy of rigour. Today, to our voice yesterday, has been added the authoritative one of the President of the Council Enrico Letta who admonishes: Italy dies too rigorously! It is therefore time to give oxygen to our companies; it is time to think about development; it is time to introduce measures that restore confidence and mobilise resources for new investments; it is time that austerity policies leave the field, albeit in due prudence, to policies of revival, growth and investment. This measure gives the State the possibility to collect the VAT not yet paid on the invoices issued but not collected; it modifies the Internal Stability Pact with payment of invoices and progress reports related to the investments made; it increases the liquidity of the companies reducing the effects of the lack of bank financing; it reduces the demand for financing on the banks, giving the banks the same margins to satisfy other demands; it restarts the factoring mechanism today clogged by discounts on invoices of previous years. But, above all, credit from companies will be satisfied earlier than credit from banks. The mechanisms are simplified, so much so that there is a tempered procedure of the principle of silence-consent, which is, of course, a concrete step towards simplification. In addition, the compensation between debts and claims, on which the PdL in the previous legislature fought hard in the two branches of Parliament, is recognised provided that both have been completed before 31 December 2012. Gentlemen of the Government, colleagues, morale in politics is also shown by honouring the commitments made with the people. Today we are delivering to the people and the country an expected, necessary and promised measure, which certainly serves to support the economy, but let me point out that even before supporting the economy it supports the rule of law. This is therefore a measure in support of our democracy. Sant'Agostino says: In the house of the righteous even those who exercise a command actually do nothing but serve those whom they seem to command; in fact they do not command by greed of dominoes, but by duty to do good to men, not out of pride to excel, but out of love to provide. Colleagues and colleagues, the road ahead is very difficult and long. We have taken it in the right direction; I believe that we must continue with a firm and robust step, but also with great tenacity, humility and unity of intent. We owe this to the country. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u19	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u20	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, a measure awaited by businesses and local authorities, especially the most virtuous ones, which live with deep frustration the impossibility of paying their debts, debts often boasted by small and medium-sized enterprises and artisan firms, such as those that constitute the productive fabric of my region, Veneto, and those of that area that the League redesigns within a project called Macroregion, the Macroregion of the North. When we analyze measures like this, which are necessarily built by keeping in the foreground the balances to be respected and the financial alchemies necessary to maintain the state budget, we must remember that we are always talking about people: there are people and families behind the companies in difficulty; entrepreneurs and employees often with the same despair, which unfortunately led them to dramatic choices and without return. But local administrators are also people, who especially in small centres, that is in the vast majority of Italian municipalities, have a direct knowledge, esteem, maybe even affection, but in particular fairness to suppliers who cannot pay and to those users of services that they cannot honour. Our mayors often feel powerless in front of their own citizens, even though they have tried well to administer, after having really worked diligently and with that sense of good family father that connotes them. The North League, therefore, naturally welcomes the ratio of the measure under consideration, aware and responsible for the urgency of taking the measure itself. Decree-Law No. 35 of 2013 is born - we will then see under what circumstances and with what clear limits - with the aim of ending a scandalous situation, and at the same time tragic, if we think of how many companies have failed or are failing today, even if they have worked, but without seeing the legitimate invoices honored. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is almost surreal: it closes not for debts, but for credits! The country is in a situation of such stalemate that our public system, at all levels, does not settle its debts to suppliers. There are many reasons why this is happening. We have mentioned this many times, but it is good to repeat it, in order to make it clear that the situation we have reached today is not inevitable. Above all, it must be made clear that, even in this case, the photograph of our country is not homogeneous; not everyone behaves responsibly. In short, there are responsibilities that must emerge and be stigmatized, because this provision does not risk becoming yet another sanatoria, which humiliates those who behave well and rewards those who have mismanaged. On the one hand, the unpaid debts of the public administration are the harmful product of an obtuse internal stability pact, of centralist conception, punitive towards the autonomous, anti-federalist: a pact built only on the cuts of transfers, which has effectively blocked all expenditure on investment and which has never - I repeat, never - recognized a premium to the virtuous administrations. On the contrary, the virtuous administrations, who have planned the expenses well enough to have cash leftovers, could not spend them with the paradoxical result of keeping funds even large firm in the single treasury, another centralist taxation wanted by the Monti government. However, there are also other bodies, which have built up certain unvirtuous budgets, committing funds that they did not have or that had been skilfully accounted for. These institutions do not pay because they have made commitments that they should not have made, because they have probably made promises that they could not keep. And I think it is very serious that all the political forces in this Parliament, with the exception of the North League, have tried in the Commission to make up for off-balance-sheet debts with a pen! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is above all thanks to us that this widely-shared amendment has been blocked, avoiding yet another slap to the correct administrators. We therefore share the objective of this measure: that of giving immediately some oxygen to the companies that are waiting to be paid by the public system. Who could not share such a goal? Anything you can do is done, but quickly. However, it is a measure that really has many limits, it could be done much better. And we want to make these limits clear, because there are still many debts to be paid, probably for at least another 50 billion, and we will need more urgent measures. So, ladies and gentlemen, after the long work that has involved the House and the Senate, in the Commissions and in this House, let us not repeat the same mistakes in the future. We work together, to give answers to businesses and also to our administrators, on issues of common sense that must have nothing to do with political oppositions and that instead must lead us to work with a single objective, that of the common good and economic recovery. This decree was born as the last act of a technical government already expired and that also in this it has fully demonstrated its inadequacy, meanwhile due to the delay with which it has addressed this issue: the unblocking of the credits to the enterprises, in a period of economic crisis so serious, should have been the first objective of the emergency government, the first measure of a government called to face the crisis, well before certainly of the reform Fornero of the pensions, that it has produced more problems than solutions. Instead, we came to the sound of the bell, with a text produced and then left behind, at a time of political impasse followed by the last electoral round. The decree is the product of a government of bureaucrats, with large limits relative to both the financial scope and the timing, but also to the complex methodology for the certification and the payment of debts, especially if we think that it is entrusted to a public bureaucratic machine of which we all stigmatize the inertia and the tendency to the low assumption of responsibility. We must free our businesses from the costs and delays that they suffer through passive bureaucracy. It is above all a measure that, in order to get the funds to the companies, ends up favoring more the administrations that have accumulated more debts and gives additional money to those who have accumulated debts without having financial availability. The virtuous administrations demanded that they be able to spend their money, stuck in cash by the Stability Pact, and so it was. But the non-virtuous administrations, which are resorting en masse to deposit and loan advances from the Cassa, actually get extra money to cover their holes. As we said, if the aim is to pay for companies, we must accept this too, but as an emergency operation: this cannot constitute a precedent and unfortunately this decree does nothing to prevent the administrations from continuing to spend money that they do not have. In our opinion, the decree had to contain further measures to control and monitor public expenditure and to provide for more sanctions for those who did not manage well. However, the Northern League has actively and proactively participated in the examination of the measure, first in the Special Commission, constituted in good time to address and resolve as far as possible the situation of the creditors of the State, despite the impasse on the formation of the Government. And we recognize that some positive contributions, also conveyed by our representatives in the Commission, suggested by municipalities and regions, were received by the Government, last but not least. A system of dialogue which we believe to be positive, which also took place at a unified conference and which we hope will also be a method for the next steps that we consider urgent. An urgent request has emerged from all sides: that of a thorough and comprehensive reform of the Internal Stability Pact, in order to prevent the continued accumulation of additional debts without the possibility of exiting this negative spiral. It is an issue on which we expect a serious commitment from the Government by the end of the year, without which local and territorial authorities, especially some particularly virtuous and well administered, cannot play a role of incentive and facilitation of the economic recovery (role they could and would like to play), while they find themselves, despite them, to become point of stumbling and worsening of the crisis. The essential point, however, is another. This decree was certainly born to respond quickly to a real emergency, with limited funds compared to the real needs and with a still cumbersome and complex procedure. But we are always standing still, locked up in a vicious circle that will not be able to lay better foundations for the payment of debts from here on out. Why? Because there is no real leap in quality, a mental and cultural revolution that doesn't put the system in place on the supply-payment-debt-replanting mechanism without control and without any rewarding mechanism for the virtuous entities and no real disincentive for those who mismanage the funds and the health of the citizens. The real turning point is called the mechanism of standard costs and requirements, in public administration as well as in health: it is now shared by everyone, even by those who, at the beginning, laughed at the federalist system wanted by the League. In the examination of this measure, both in the Advisory Commissions and in the Budget Commission, it was a continuous reminder of the standard cost mechanism, which was developed on the basis of the legislative decrees implementing Law No 42 of 2009 and which could already be applied today if there had not been the guilty setback of a year of technical government, which wanted to cancel the idea of federalism itself and which, despite repeated announcements of cost reduction and spending review, has produced very little from the point of view of results, without understanding, or not wanting to understand, and accepting the evidence: federalism is the only response to an inefficient public finance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u22	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as the Governor of the Banca d'Italia Ignazio Visco rightly pointed out last Friday in his final considerations, the liquidity crisis and the availability of credit had a significant impact on the negative dynamics of gross domestic product during 2012. In recent months, during the annual Report to Parliament on the performance of public finances, there had been a unanimous call to the Monti Government to intervene on the ground - in many ways dramatic - of delays in public administration payments. Thanks to the positive work of the Commission and the two branches of Parliament, the decree adopted on 8 April last has undoubtedly been improved and is enriched in the right direction: to speed up the concrete responses to a problem involving a large number of businesses and local administrations. Today's measure is, moreover, one of the most important anti-conjunctural maneuvers that have been put in place to counter the effects of an unprecedented crisis for our economic system, despite the awareness that this extraordinary and, in some ways, unconventional intervention, cannot be considered exhaustive. As the rapporteur, Mr Santini, pointed out, although a certain quantification of the commercial debts of the public administration to the business system is not yet available, the total amount should not deviate much from the estimate of EUR 90 billion (5.8% of gross domestic product), recently provided by the Bank of Italy. The phenomenon of the accumulation of residual liabilities, i.e. the commercial debts of the administrations towards the enterprises, is partly due to the constraints imposed by the rules of the Internal Stability Pact, which, while they have helped to induce local authorities to behave virtuously, have in many cases ended up having the perverse effect of not being able to use the liquidity to honour the debts towards the enterprises. The relaxation of the Internal Stability Pact is not, therefore, a concession to those who advocate the return to public spending that is easy, but an indispensable guideline to allow the reopening of thousands of small yards on the ground that can help to restart our economy. The exclusion from the Pact of certain types of payment of local authorities' debts and the modification of the Vertical Regional Stability Pact go in this direction, although perhaps, with an act of greater courage, the way could have been followed of the postponement to 2014 of the introduction of the Pact for Municipalities between 1,000 and 5.000 inhabitants. In the passage to the Senate, at the request of the Government, no changes were made to the articles concerning IMU and TARES. But let us recall a widespread need among local administrators in order to have a stable architecture of the local tax system quickly, because the logic of stop and go creates absolute uncertainty and prevents planning, in the short and medium term, investments that would in turn contribute to the desired recovery of the economy. With regard in particular to TARES, the request contained in several motions already discussed in this House for its application to be postponed to 2014 must be reiterated here. Finally, remaining on the subject of the decree in the process of conversion, it is necessary to draw attention to the failing municipalities, for which a special agenda has also been drawn up. While, on the one hand, they have also been given access to the cash deposit and loan advance, the extraordinary winding-up bodies have not been granted the same access, despite them, to deal with the issue of the payment of the passive mass (which is also mainly made up of commercial debts), in the absence of the instruments to spread these debts over the long term. It is therefore desirable that the Government should address this issue in compliance with the new legislation on the subject and the principle of ascertaining the responsibilities of directors and managers, but also with the necessary flexibility, in order to avoid that the effects of the failure end up to be fully discharged on citizens, with taxes and tariffs at most, on the creditor companies and workers of the municipalities and the participants, as well as exposing the new directors (unable to blame) to an unjust media grievance for the mere fact of enforcing laws and regulations. In large communities, in fact, it is necessary to avoid the outbreak of real social revolts and wars among the poor, caused by the inevitable rigidity in the application of legislation that leaves no room for adaptation on the different local realities of the consequences of the failure, especially if this is generated by a deficit on the side of current expenditure and the participated. In this context, it is urgent to activate adequate social shock absorbers, capable of helping an exit (as painless as possible on the employment front) from situations of disruption. Ultimately, this measure tries to respond to a legitimate expectation of the system from companies, but it would be illusory to think that it has resolved the issue once and for all. This is a first step in the right direction, but others will have to follow in order to return to a proper relationship between suppliers and public administration, within the framework of the EU's rules on payments. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u23	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the general points and the more specific issues relating to the measure we are debating today which have been touched upon by the previous speeches, I would like to focus first on a specific subject, namely the effects that may have on the change that will allow the State guarantee to be granted on the claims accumulated by companies towards the public administration. Secondly, I would like to stress the importance that certain steps will be taken to ensure the economic impact of this measure. It has already been pointed out that, on the basis of the amendment approved by the Budget Commission, the Ministry of Economy will be able to provide guarantees for national, Community and international financial institutions which decide to take over commercial credits from companies in public administrations. Of course, this will have to be done without increasing potential charges for the treasury. The amendment, as we know, also amends paragraph 9 of Article 7 to the part which provides for financial transactions for the cancellation of commercial debts. Three brief comments can be made to underline the potential positive effects that can be derived from this potential. First, to provide for an appropriate State subsidiary guarantee mechanism on certified claims that are purchased by banks or intermediary companies would not affect the public debt, as this would be a guarantee for the payment of debts already entered in the accounts. Secondly, on the banks' side, these claims, as guaranteed by the State, would weigh in a limited way on the valuation criteria which, under the new Basel regulation, tend to examine the balance sheets of the same banks and which, as we have seen in the experience of other countries, such as Spain, can be used by banks for a discount at the European Central Bank. Thirdly, it is possible to set in motion a virtuous mechanism which would allow companies to have suffered the outstanding debts, without, however, that this means exempting the administration from the relative burden; all this, provided that there are various measures to allow an appropriate remodulation of the debt ceilings allowed to each administration. The change - as can be seen from these three examples, to which others might be added - is very important, because from next year it could allow to go far beyond the ceiling of 20 plus 20 billion planned and could allow to pay off a large part of the accumulated debt stock. All this is of course an option and should not be read as an obligation or a constraint: this would be a free agreement between the State and any financial intermediaries involved. With regard to the economic impact this measure may have, I would like to remind you that this is an extraordinary intervention, arranged in agreement with the European authorities, which does not finance new expenditure, but which, although important, is limited to healing critical situations in the flows of payments of the public administration. The total amount is very large: we are talking about 5.5% of the entire bank debt and more than 3% of the total non-financial company debt. There is therefore potentially an important expansionary effect, which is all the more important because it would act on domestic demand, which for more than two years has been the real heel of our economy, as it more than compensates for the positive contributions from world demand and exports. These spillover effects on domestic demand can materialize through multiple channels. I would like to mention, among the most important, the increase in financial resources for businesses, the increase in consumer purchasing power, the liquidity of the financial system. In order for this impact to produce its full effects, it is very important to indicate precise criteria in the priority of payments, both with regard to debtors and with regard to creditors. I think it can be stressed that in the final version, that is to say the one we are debating today, this indication appears to be significantly improved. The economic impact is also closely related to the timing, and therefore to the compliance with the deadlines; hence the importance that we approve of this measure tomorrow and that the deadline of 7 June be respected. Let me conclude by stressing that, in the light of a situation which continues to be worrying and which in some way tends to reaffirm that our economy is still in the midst of a severe recession, this measure is important, but we must hope that it will be accompanied by as many important support actions that are able to face the current vicious circle in which the Italian internal market has been crashing for too long. These support actions, as we know, are also directed towards the relationship with the European Union, so that, for example, we can ask for and obtain the European Central Bank's strongest intervention in terms of margins of intervention for the liquidation of a number of payments relating, in particular, to small and medium-sized enterprises. In conclusion, the intervention of the Government today in our examination is very important, as is very important, however, is the possibility to monitor that this intervention is the beginning of a series of measures that, in some way, ensure a fully effective economic impact. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u25	Senator Merloni is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u26	Madam President, the measure we are debating today is perhaps one of the most awaited by our business system, which is also suffering from delays in payments by public administrations. It is in fact the first positive gesture that we give to the Italian economic system in a phase of persistent difficulty. Unlocking EUR 40 billion of back payments to businesses and private individuals, transferring liquidity from the public sector to the private sector is today thanks to the heavy but rigorous measures adopted by the previous government, which have allowed us to clear up the accounts and the subsequent closure of the infringement procedure by the European Union. As evidenced by the data released by the Ministry of Economy, the requests for access to what is provided for by the decree are many and for this I believe that it is necessary to follow the commitment made by the Government to proceed further to fully settle the debt with the remaining 50 billion euros accrued at 31 December 2012. On the other hand, stimuli for our economy must be a priority in the government's action, and efforts cannot be spared. It is therefore necessary to give continuity to measures that can bring liquidity into the national system in order to engage a recovery which unfortunately does not seem very close to date. Our companies are still immersed in a national macroeconomic environment of extreme difficulty. The main indicators are struggling to show positive signs, and that is why the speed of payments, trying to minimize the bureaucratic constraints that certainly help to stifle our economy, represents a possible way out of this recession so long and heavy. These are sums of money that may be able to restart the internal market, measures that can - if implemented in a short time - give a first positive boost and, above all, oxygen to the national entrepreneurial fabric. The liquidation of corporate loans by the public administration will act, in fact, according to the estimates provided on several occasions also by the president of Confindustria, both on the trend of unemployment (in 5 years 250,000 jobs), and on the growth of GDP (a percentage point for the first 3 years, up to 1.5% in 2018). This is borne out by the events in Spain where, with a similar operation of 30 billion outstanding debts that the Spanish public administration has recently paid to companies, Iberian GDP is growing by 1.2%. The text in this House today, while leaving the overall scope of the decree unchanged, has been improved, made more effective and more efficient. It will be verified that the liquidity resulting from the payment of the transferred credits is actually used in support of the economy and the production system. This point, in particular, appears to be of fundamental importance. The liquidity crisis that Italian companies live on their shoulders and the difficulty of finding new financing to cope with investments aimed at research and development in fact hinder the driving force of our economic system. We are facing the third wave of credit-crunch, after those of 2007-2009 and 2011-2012. Loans to companies have been falling for more than a year and a half and the stock has fallen dramatically. Credit institutions are increasingly selective in granting trusts, rates are rising, many companies are giving up their claims. And we can only imagine how many companies, burdened by the lack of liquidity, have failed in the meantime. In order to restart the confidence of the banks and therefore the bank credit, we need a shock that strongly raises the growth of the Italian economy. And this decree unlocks public administration debts is an important step, but it is a first step: reducing the cost of money decided by the ECB is another positive sign, but still many other measures are possible and necessary. Daily, the European and Italian bodies involved in tracing the future scenarios of our economy show that concrete actions are needed to stimulate recovery, growth, development and help overcome the crisis. We still have a difficult year ahead with an estimated GDP of -1.8% and unemployment of more than 12%, while 2014 is expected to mark a shy recovery in GDP, but with unemployment still growing. This measure is therefore an important act that affects the real life of people and businesses, restores a little lifeblood to an economic fabric composed mostly of small and medium-sized realities that have manifested all their suffering in recent years, asking several times for them to be allowed to work and produce, in compliance with the rules and commitments as they are asked. With the approval of the decree you can give an impulse to accelerate the long-awaited recovery, perhaps since the last quarter of 2013, and the same public administration would no longer be conceived by citizens as an obstacle, but with transparency, efficiency and speed could become a flywheel of development, resource for the relaunch of the Italy system. All this alone is not enough. The result obtained today must be seen as the first step in a path that will have to see, in the coming months, Parliament and Government engaged in a collaborative way to give answers and put in place all the necessary initiatives to hang up the recovery. The recommendations made by the European Union itself must be taken into account, and we must therefore continue with determination along the lines of structural reforms, reduce the tax burden in a selective way by favouring work and production, rationalise current expenditure at all administrative levels by cutting down on unproductive expenditure, simplifying and simplifying bureaucracy in order to make citizens' lives easier and cheaper. Our country needs to continue the fight against tax evasion, to improve compliance with tax obligations and to combat the black economy and irregular work in an incisive way, to strengthen and modernise infrastructure capacity, to develop high-speed broadband in telecommunications. There is so much to do to create work and growth and from all this it is clear that the time of the promises is really over and the only way is to do well, quickly and in a concrete way. Trust in Italy can return if there are clear interventions. This decree, a measure of real economy to help the real economy, to give breath back to businesses and citizens, is a first sign compared to a fair, legitimate and necessary response. It also lays the foundations for reconstructing a less unbalanced relationship between State and enterprises, and it is a great opportunity to initiate virtuous behavior on the part of public administration, allowing to overcome that feeling of distrust, sometimes of dislike, towards the State, politics and institutions. The release of payments confirms a fundamental rule: those who work must be paid and pay with certain times and in a certain way must also be the public administration. For this reason too, today the measure opens a new, even cultural, page of politics. 18.30 p.m. (Merloni followed). On this road, in this way, we must continue, aware that there is still a lot to do in the interest of the Italian production system, of all the entrepreneurial, agricultural, commercial, artisan activities, and of our families, helping to solve the emergencies that are still many, with a great sense of responsibility and positive attitude. It is a method of work that we of Civic Choice claim as success, having been those who pushed for the collaboration between political forces in the interest of the country, a method that we hope can continue. For those like me who come from business, approving a decree of this kind is a reason for pride and real service offered to the country, and in particular to the world of businesses that have been neglected for too long. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u27	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u28	Mr President, I would naturally like to express my satisfaction with the text that has come to this House today and the valuable work that has been done all these days, with a result that will certainly help to heal the wound that has been created in the population between citizens and institutions when there is a risk of losing trust. This is an act that will help us a lot, not only because it will give oxygen to the productive realities, but because it will help to restore a path of trust at the institutional level. However, I would like to stress a problem which I have noted and which I do not think has yet emerged, not because it is trying to create difficulties, but only to keep to what could happen, for example, in small and medium-sized enterprises, where the productive fabric consists essentially of small and medium-sized enterprises and where, coming in this great breath of oxygen, we could find ourselves having a list of creditors of the local authorities at the beginning of which could be, for example, a large company that boasts an important credit. What would paradoxically happen then? That just what is the ratio of this measure would be distorted and violated and an important opportunity would be missed, because those municipalities, those entities that will find themselves to heal that credit would commit all that amount to pay one or two suppliers, and all the others would remain mouthless. This would, I believe, lead to the failure of the good intentions that we have. I therefore call on you to consider how this problem can be resolved, including with an agenda, with thoughts that may come to this House, including by our rapporteurs, who are, of course, much better than me. Paradoxically, in fact, that small company, that craftsman, those traders who have provided, for example, to the kindergarten of a given reality all the supplies and food necessary to conduct a service that is fundamental in a community that wants to live with much civic sense its being could not be paid if the first, the second and the third place of the list of creditors were occupied by larger companies that boast a more important credit. The benefit, therefore, would run the risk of jumping, and I do not know how these municipalities could respond. I do not believe that this is the problem of a single reality, but I believe that it can happen in our small and medium-sized centres, which certainly constitute the great majority of our national community. I just wanted to point out this because, having personally made this reflection, I would not regret not having offered it to the attention of this House, and especially of our rapporteurs. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u29	Senator colleagues and fellow senators, the Presidency informs us that the rapporteurs have tabled further amendments to the decree-law under discussion. In order to allow for a more detailed examination, the Presidency shall, in accordance with Rule 100 (11) of the Rules of Procedure, postpone these amendments to the Budget Commission, which shall report to the Assembly by the afternoon sitting of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u30	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u31	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, all citizens, the delay in payments, both because of the difficulties resulting from the crisis, which since the end of 2007 has affected the entire world economic and financial system, and because this constitutes an illegitimate form of financing of the debtor, has become a problem of increasing intensity and increasing interest. In particular, public administrations are, on the one hand, among the worst payers, especially with regard to the construction and health sectors, on the other hand, they enjoy special disciplines, if not real privileges. The argument that the State, and more generally the public administration, would be a particular debtor, because it has its own ways of enjoying and disposing of the goods and of contracting and paying, has been progressively exceeded since the middle of the last century. Nevertheless, public administration remains a bad payer and the legislator has continued to create new forms of privilege over the years. The decree-law in question, aimed at the opening of a first part of the stock of claims held by companies against the public administration, falls into an economic phase marked by significant difficulties. As is well known, Italy is unfortunately the last place in the European rankings on the timeliness of payments between companies and especially those of the public administration to companies. The decree is a first step, taking into account the delicate political phase that goes through our country. This is a measure that puts in place an amount of financial resources that would be able, although not to solve the issue definitively, certainly to give a little bit of oxygen to the companies, if the measures will be fully and promptly implemented. Basically, over the years 2013-2014, it is expected to allocate resources amounting to €40 billion, against the partial estimates of Bankitalia of 91 billion planned to meet the claims of the companies. However, it is clear that these 40 billion are not enough. In the text examined, the original plant is confirmed, perhaps even more shrewd, which once again shows greater attention to the needs of the accounting bureaucracy rather than to those of the thousands of creditor companies of the tertiary market and the craft sector, now on the verge of collapse. Lately, the International Monetary Fund has also admitted that the accounting constraints detached from the macroeconomic analysis are deleterious for a nation in crisis. We cannot allow them to continue to close fifty and more companies a day. The country is firm, and not because of its inability, but because of the political inability to make the concept of full employment prevail over a merely accounting one such as the one underlying the Stability Pact. Several times we have asked - and last of all with the amendments already tabled to the House of Deputies - that the fund available could be extended in order to be able to pay all the creditor companies and not just some. The proposal, however, has always been to comply with the commitments relating to the Stability Pact. Since the Pact is closely linked to GDP, it is unthinkable that measures should not be taken to prevent a fall in GDP without, in the long term, making it impossible to keep within the limits of the Stability Pact. It is basically a serpent that bites its tail, which finds in the scarcity of resources intended to cover the claims of companies against PAs one of the causes of the terrible crisis that the country is going through. Among other things, it is incomprehensible how Decree-Law No. 35 of 2013 aims to allow companies to take advantage of the compensation between tax debts and non-prescribed commercial credits, certain, liquid and payable, accrued to the State and the national public bodies for administration, supply and procurement, thus helping the companies that still have previous debts with the PAs and neglecting at the same time to allocate part of the funds to non-debitor enterprises but only creditors. In essence, we penalise companies that, boasting exclusively credits, have carried out all the obligations correctly. The Five Star Movement will not tire of saying that austerity alone is not enough and that it stifles the economy of States in periods of recession like this. Directive No 7 of 2011 of the European Union on combating late payment in commercial transactions, transposed by our legal order by Legislative Decree No 192 of 9 November 2012, identifies late payments as the cause of the crisis in the competitiveness of companies, as they determine a virtuous circle in which the company, having no more liquidity, is forced to resort to requests for financing that are often denied to it because of the current economic crisis. The problem concerns all companies, but for simple and intuitive reasons it affects mainly small and medium-sized enterprises and artisans, who form the backbone of the Italian production fabric, have less financial capacity and recourse to credit, as well as less contractual force in the relationship with the large companies and the public administration, so as to be often induced to give up contractual rights owed to them by law. This leads to the failure of companies that, if paid in due time, would be healthy and contribute to the country's competitiveness and growth and create a lot of jobs. The problem is also made particularly acute by the lack of efficiency of the judicial system, which is often a factor of multiplication of delays and costs, so as to neutralize any compensation that the law provides for in favour of the creditor. The European Commission, in its Communication of 26 November 2008 entitled "A European Economic Recovery Plan', called for the reduction of administrative burdens and the promotion of entrepreneurship, in particular by ensuring - to alleviate liquidity problems - payment within one month of invoices relating to the provision of services, including those of SMEs. What must be aimed at from the outset, therefore, is to restore all claims to the public administration, in order to give companies a breath, to put into circulation liquidity, to stimulate productivity and to give companies hope again; as indicated in the directive mentioned above, it should be envisaged to limit the payment periods provided for in contracts between undertakings to a maximum of 60 calendar days. Collective reflection is needed on this, also considering that further measures will be needed for 2014. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u33	Mr President, Senators and Senators, Decree-Law No 35 of 2013, in addition to the urgent provisions for the payment of debts due by the public administration, also includes provisions for the financial rebalancing of local authorities, as well as for the payment of local government fees. To complement some of the previous speeches, in particular those by my colleagues Mr Fornaro and Mr Del Barba, I would like to address three aspects, the first of which relates to Article 10, in which we speak on the TARES. At the moment the municipalities have a very varied picture: some apply the TARSU, some apply the environmental hygiene tariff 1 (TIA 1), others TIA 2. The whole matter needs to be reordered as soon as possible. "The Sun 24 Hours" last May 21 has a little polemically titled: "The TARES" is approved and then canceled. In fact, writing an economic-financial plan and on this basis defining the rates of TARES for each category of users is not a walk, especially in those 6,700 municipalities that until 2012 have applied the TARSU. The municipalities must complete all the calculations in the coming weeks, because without a financial plan we cannot decide the tariffs, without the tariffs we cannot make the estimate budget and without the budget we risk the dissolution of the junta, the council and the Commissariat. Too bad, however, that this complex work (calculus, coefficients and variables to measure the waste produced and so on) risks being absolutely useless, because at this moment in Article 1 of Decree-Law No 54 of 2013 under consideration in the House is expected the overall reform of the regulation of taxation on property, including the regulation of the municipal tax on waste. So, clarity becomes all the more urgent. Standards are useful, but a comprehensive framework is needed. I now come to the final point: an amendment tabled in the 5th Commission responds to a requirement that the municipalities expressed through the ANCI on the possibility of still using, for the years 2013-2014, 75% urbanisation charges on the first title of current expenditure. This is a necessary response, because the municipalities face serious difficulties when they have to close their budgets, but it is not a good thing from the point of view of the goodness of budgetary management. It is only a further indicator of the financial difficulties faced by the municipalities. In conclusion, the provision for our examination must be approved as soon as possible because it certainly provides for good things and because it is necessary to make sure that the text can quickly pass to the Chamber, but with the conscience of those who are putting patches to a coat that has not only gone out of fashion but is now all lysed and has holes. It is necessary to prepare as soon as possible an overall timetable for the implementation of the Municipalities, bearing in mind that if the Municipalities work well the positive impact on the citizens is immediate. It is necessary to give certainty to the rules, a certainty of the process which allows the municipalities, as is their duty but also their right, to make the budget by December, at the latest in February, thus reducing the work of the municipal offices. It is also necessary to give certainty of revenue, so that it can be properly imposed, and to give certainty to citizens of taxation, because citizens are also willing to pay taxes, to pay the right, provided they know how much they have to pay and are not placed in the conditions of having to make mistakes and then be punished because they have made confusion. This would really mean trying to move towards a process of fiscal federalism and the culture of accountability. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u34	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law deals with the sensitive issue of the payment of debts due by public authorities to businesses, the financial rebalancing of local authorities, and the rules on the payment of local authorities' taxes. The decree is qualified as a measure related to the financial maneuver, which contributes to the achievement of the programmatic objectives of public finance set out in the financial programming documents. The report to the Parliament 2013, prepared by the Government pursuant to Law No 196 of 2009, has seen a worse economic development than the one estimated in the Update Note to the DEF 2012 and has evidenced the necessity to accompany the consolidation of the public accounts the necessity to increase the domestic demand having it restarted already from the second semester of this year. In this sense, the legislative action in question is framed; it has identified the unblocking of payments of public debt to its suppliers, the intervention through which to place liquidity in the economic system in a short time. With regard to the amount of public administration's debts, I would like to point out that, while, on the one hand, the Government's analysis, which is prodromic to the decree which is called for to be converted into law, the amount of credit that companies have towards public administration constitutes, in the current phase of the economic and financial crisis, a significant element of weakness in the financial structure of the companies themselves, on the other hand, a thorough analysis of how it has been possible to reach this point, of how it has happened that public authorities have been able to indebt, not to pay suppliers and with accounting artifice to have respected the Maastricht Pact. This is all the more serious only if we consider that, at present, there is no reliable data on the amount of public administration debt to enterprises. The Bank of Italy, in a hearing at the joint Special Commissions of Chamber and Senate, on March 28, 2013, has specified that in our country the current accounting systems of public administrations do not allow a systematic and exhaustive collection of commercial debts. I repeat: the current accounting systems of public administrations do not allow a systematic and comprehensive collection of commercial debts. This was also noted and underlined in the speech by the rapporteur, Senator D'Alì. The data were then collected through sample surveys carried out by the Bank of Italy on enterprises operating in the industrial sectors, non-financial private services and construction: the total commercial debts (including those concerning capital expenditure) of public administrations to the enterprises would, at the end of 2011, amount to approximately 90 billion euro (5.8% of GDP); 120-130 billion instead according to the estimates CGIA of Mestre, that it has specified that the investigation carried out by the Bank of Italy does not take into account the companies with less than twenty employees. As for the distribution, about half of the debts would be attributable to Regions and ASL, while among the creditors the greater share would be boasted by large enterprises and those that supply private services; in this context to suffer more for the delays of the payments turns out to be the construction companies. Regarding the effects of the measures, the payment of public administration debt to the extent of approximately 20 billion in the second part of 2013 and a further 20 billion in the course of 2014 would, according to the Government's estimates, lead to a higher growth of 1.2 points of GDP over the three-year period. With regard to the delays in public administration payments, I would like to stress and point out that the issue of late payments and the need to remedy and curb the harmful and superficial debt action of institutions had already been the subject of several legislative actions aimed at giving concrete implementation to Directive 2000/35 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 June 2000 and to the subsequent Directive 2011/7 of 16 February 2011, transposed into Italian law by Legislative Decree No 192 of 2012. The decree just cited has provided, inter alia, for contracts concluded with effect from 1 January 2013, a maximum period for payments by the public administration of 60 days, as well as an increase in late interest which automatically takes effect on the expiry of the period. In relation to the claims of enterprises vis-à-vis regional and local administrations for administration, supply and procurement, the legislator has introduced a discipline, several times modified, for the certification, by the territorial authorities, of the claims in question against the parties concerned, also for the purpose of the sale of the same claims on banks or financial intermediaries. The credit certification mechanism was subsequently extended to national health service bodies, state administrations and national public bodies. What has been said and what has happened has prompted me, as rapporteur in the 8th Commission, to give an opinion in the consultative forum, which is in favour of the conversion of Decree-Law No 35 of 2013 with the amendments made to date, but with the comments which I have the honour to reaffirm before this House and which have been unanimously voted in the Commission by all the Groups. The current discipline of the Internal Stability Pact, with the criterion of so-called mixed competence, prevents the natural transformation of capital commitments into payments to companies, causing the accumulation of debts even in the presence of cash resources available; it therefore leads to an increase in the amount of uncounted debts, allowing only formal compliance with European parameters. In order to avoid the formation of new capital debts of local authorities, even if cash resources are available, it is therefore necessary to amend the rules of the Pact, introducing the principle of current balance and a limit to debt. In order to ensure the transparency of the payments to be made by public administrations pursuant to the decree-law in question and to enable all creditors to verify compliance with the criterion of payment relating to the seniority of the claim established by the same measure, it should be provided that public administrations publish on their website the complete list, by chronological order of issue of the invoice or equivalent payment request, of the debts for which the communication referred to in Article 6 (9) of the decree-law has been made, indicating the amount and the expected date of payment communicated to the creditor. Such a forecast should be accompanied by appropriate penalties for managers who fail to publish in question. It is appropriate to introduce an obligation for public administrations to automatically certify, within 10 days of expiry, all future debts due, by electronic platform, also in order to allow undertakings to carry out demobilisation transactions with financial institutions. In order to avoid that the public administrations fail to issue the certification of the credit required by the companies pursuant to article 9, paragraph 3-a, of Decree-Law No 185 of 2008, with consequent impossibility for the same enterprises to carry out operations of demobilization of the relative credits to the credit institutions, the aforementioned omission should detect for the purpose of measuring the assessment of the individual performance of the managers responsible and involve managerial and disciplinary responsibility, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, as well as appropriate financial penalties for every day of delay in the certification of the credit. With particular reference to article 6, paragraph 1-a, of the decree-law, according to which the Government promotes the conclusion of agreements with the associations of category of the credit system with regard to the creation of monitoring systems aimed at verifying that the liquidity introduced into the system by the measure under consideration is used in support of the real economy and the production system, it is appropriate to provide that the aforementioned monitoring activity is carried out also through significant contribution of the productive world, which should therefore be part of the aforementioned conventions. In conclusion, in pointing out that some of the comments in the opinion have been incorporated by the 5th Commission in the referee, I hope that on the issue of payments the state and public administrations will change pace and adapt with a sense of responsibility to respect for the laws, showing efficiency and transparency. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a very long-awaited measure by our companies, which, working with public administrations, are suffering and are often forced to close due to the enormous delays in payments due to them; companies with important credits, led to dismiss their employees because of a debtor State, which is often seen as an enemy who steals work by demanding auction rebates, and then sinking companies that are being choked by banks and suppliers. A measure that is also welcomed by our administrators, especially the local administrators, who can finally see themselves given back a little 'of the dignity that at this moment - and we have seen it also during the last local elections - lives a state of dullness; local administrators that are worsening the economic crisis, as they are unable to pay, and that they see the companies of their territory close for credits. Dear colleagues, these things happen only in Italy. A measure seen as a good step forward; a measure that does not create heroes in us who vote for it. I have seen some self-incense colleagues these days, because we are preparing to vote on this act. In my opinion, we are only giving what we owe to Italian companies, our suppliers and companies who comment with a \finally! Â Â. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Marino Luigi.]] A measure that allocates EUR 20 billion in 2013 and EUR 20 billion in 2014, bringing the 2013 deficit to 2.9 percent of GDP, i.e. below the 3% threshold, necessary to close the infringement procedure in Brussels. However, we are all aware that we have exhausted all the room for manoeuvre for further expenditure for the current year; we are all aware of this. A positive measure also for our economic system; for years the Municipalities and Provinces have said so. Thanks to this measure, according to the Ministry of Economy, the placing of 40 billion extra into our economic system will cause a greater growth of 1.2 points over the three years. I prefer to say'may cause', not because of lack of confidence in the Ministry, but because, ladies and gentlemen, some past statements (such as the experience of Minister Fornero-esodati) show me a little with distrust what is said in these classrooms. This positive measure - we must remember - is a one-off measure, so it is not a definitive instrument that will serve to repay the debts of the public administration. It is a positive and useful tool to buffer this moment of crisis, a first step to start to activate a new management of payments of public administration and debts, following the transposition, by legislative decree 9 November 2012, n. 192, of the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, which impose, among other things, in relation to contracts concluded from 1 January 2013, a maximum period for payments of the public administration of sixty days. However, we are all convinced that it is not automatically possible to set it by law, so we risk putting the local authorities in a whirlwind of sanctions and interest in the event of non-payment, so we are careful. A measure that we also welcome thanks to the adoption of the rule on the vertical stability pact: thanks to this rule, an additional 1.2 billion is released for payments of debts to businesses by local authorities. All the premises that go in the direction desired by the trade associations and local authorities, a way that for years the local virtuous authorities and the regions of the North ask loudly: we want to be able to pay our suppliers, we want to be able to manage the economic resources, we want to get rid of the Stability Pact that is suffocating the virtuous Municipalities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The sense of responsibility has led the North League not to hinder or slow down this important measure, necessary to our economy to give breath and oxygen to our entrepreneurial system, which has been suffering an unprecedented crisis for years and up to now has had to bear the burdens of these delays. The decree therefore has only this essential function: to free the resources for the companies that have already provided their services and that now risk collapse because of these unacceptable delays. We have therefore conscientiously and responsibly contributed to the work of the Commission and put forward constructive proposals, which have been supported by the majority and the Government. We have tried to improve this measure in every way, which - if observed more calmly and carefully - could have brought additional benefits. But something must be said, ladies and gentlemen, because we could do much more. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We could have looked for more resources. We all know very well, in fact, that this decree comes very late and covers less than half of the necessary amount. The delay in payments is such and so wide that the Bank of Italy has estimated a figure of around 90 billion euros against the 40 billion that we will pay; this delay has names and surnames and we can say with certainty that the League for years reports this anomaly all Italian. We all know very well that this measure can only be implemented because the European Union has allowed us to consider these 40 billion as a one-off operation, an extraordinary act: for Europe it is an accounting choice, made more than anything else so as not to see us die; for us it is a vital and social choice, given what is outside this building. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] A delay that could have been hit much earlier by the technical government. The Monti Government, called to raise Italy, if you remember, for its international standing, could obtain this benefit much earlier, but it demonstrated with its first measure on debts that it is not able to produce something effective. The so-called technicians - and I emphasize - arrived to save Italy had promised tears and blood and then growth; achieved successfully the first phase, they were stranded on the second, demonstrating what the League said in these months. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We have said this now in all languages: this is a buffer measure, so companies will get a benefit - and this is important - but it leaves intact all the causes that have led to the accumulation of debts, without giving signals on future objectives and above all on how to get out of this situation. This measure does not solve the problem of the virtuous Municipalities, which are penalized. In fact, the virtuous Municipalities, which have the cash blocked by the Stability Pact, can finally pay the debts with their own money, but what do we say about the non-virtuous Municipalities, the spenders, those who spent money that they did not have? These resort to the Deposit and Loan Fund, obtaining a similar sanatorium of the crazy expenses made in the past. So what do we say about those administrators who over the years have wasted the money of their fellow citizens and those of the State without responsibility, creating debts and plastering the structure of public bodies in Italy? Because if public bodies are no longer in fashion today, it is the fault of those who have thrown away the money in these years. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Why did we not take this opportunity, since we are in a moment of renewal and responsibility, today, at this moment? Why didn't we create tools this time to encourage and reward virtuous entities? Why have we not introduced further measures to monitor public expenditure? Why did we not create those sanctions for administrators who did not manage well, leaving everyone unpunished or, worse, rewarded, given the situation? This government could also implement more incisive policies on issues such as IMU and TARSU, which are still nebulous and on which there is no certainty: the problems of debt accumulation, the revision of the Stability Pact and the off-balance-sheet debts of the virtuous Municipalities must be resolved quickly if we do not want to find ourselves here next year trying to overcome these situations again. Finally, we must realise that the real turning point is called the mechanism of standard costs and requirements, a solution that is now shared by everyone. It is the solution to our problems; many have called for it in this House and in the Commission. The standard costs are in an advanced phase of definition, based on the legislative decrees implementing Law No 42 of 2009, and they could have seen the light already today, if there had not been that famous setback of a year ago of a fake government technical [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , that has tried unnecessarily and with every force to erase the federalist idea in Italy, without understanding that it is the only true answer to a financial failure. Responsible administrations, virtuous administrations that are rewarded and spending administrations that are sanctioned; standard costs throughout the national territory and an efficient public administration: this is the future of our country, if we want to keep it in Europe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree puts an end to an absolutely unacceptable practice and to a mechanism for which Italy's first debtor was the system of public administrations; a mechanism which could not fail to have negative effects on the business system and also on the overall socio-economic climate: there can be no permanent non-compliance with public administration and there can be no country which does not respect the rule of debt honor. I therefore believe that this passage is very important, provided that it is the passage of a path that completely puts an end to this practice. This is an issue that must be addressed with determination, because the repercussions it has had on the socio-economic system we know them well, starting from the penalization of small and medium-sized enterprises and the many failures it has caused. I think this is the real positive meaning of the decree to our examination, which also presents some profiles that are not punctually acceptable. In my opinion it is necessary to introduce compensation as a method of regulating the relations between companies and public administration, because this guarantees certainty of rights and duties and gives companies even greater scope for operations; from this point of view I hope that the Government, as in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has guaranteed undersecretary Giorgetti, wants to provide, in the perspective, for the introduction of this type of mechanism. The decree also presents problematic elements with regard to the situation of the Provinces, which, through the UPI, have tabled several amendments which contained profiles concerning general aspects of this decree, but also the particular condition of these bodies. I would like to stress that from this point of view, for the needs of the times of conversion of the decree, it is not possible here to deepen these issues, but they must have a deepening, because, in the current phase of indefinite transition, we cannot lead the Provinces to the inability to give answers to the essential services for which they are still responsible, starting from school building. It is therefore necessary that, from this point of view, once the decree has been approved, the Government wants to wait for a reflection that does not make the residual time of the Provinces as a comatose state with flat encephalogram, but that gives them the necessary operation, since, until the institutional system is modified, they will have to carry out important tasks, which pertain to the essential rights of the citizens: just think, precisely, of the school building. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Airola and Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u40	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is the result of the debate that took place in the current legislature, exactly when the Government presented the report pursuant to Article 10a (6) of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance. It was born at that moment as an instrument, the only possible one, of intervention on an economic situation which, as the Government itself said in that report, had a sharp deterioration, which is not the result of who knows what cynical and cheating destiny, but of a policy of recessionary austerity - which the previous Government did and which this Government continues to do - which puts into difficulty the economic system, blocks (in fact, sends back) the gross domestic product and, consequently, throws the social system into a condition of profound discomfort. This measure is the only one that the European Union allows us to do to bring liquidity into the economic system and try to boost growth and, if possible, employment. All this is very smoky and is not certain: there is no simulation of any scientific character that allows us to assess the relapse of this intervention in a positive way for the whole economic system and, above all, for employment. Moreover, the measure intervenes on a very serious pathology, which has many very particular aspects. First, the public administrations in Italy do not know the extent of the debt they have contracted towards the enterprises: it goes on for estimates (some makes them the Ministry of the economy, others makes them the ISTAT, others the Bank of Italy and still others the organized system of the enterprises) all different: they range from 60 to beyond 100 billion. Therefore, we do not know exactly - the Italian public administrations do not know - what debt they have contracted to companies. This is a paradox, because it is clear and clear that there is a distortion in the functioning of public administrations. If, in fact, they have ordered a supply, if they have entrusted a job and have done it as the rules require us, through a contract, after a race and a negotiation with those who participate in the realization of those activities must know: it is not conceivable that they do not know it, and if they do not know it means that there is a very serious pathology. Someone tells me that there are regions that have had to reconstruct the debt situation by going to track down the acts that had disappeared in the archives and are not in a position to do so, and so much I am not in a position to do so that says this measure, introducing a procedure of certification of the credits of the enterprises to the public administrations in order to finally do a punctual recognition of what the same owes to the enterprises. All this tells us that this is a country in crisis and that it is not just an economic crisis, but a functioning one and that there are heavy responsibilities that are not only ascribed to politics: if we continue to write everything to politics we make so many innocent people who are not innocent. This means that the responsibilities concern in part the bureaucracies, but also the system of enterprises because the delays in the payment of what was due to them by the public administration was the alibi to make prices that would not have done to any private. We must then reason on this issue, and this is an opportunity. This measure, as it has been structured, I do not like it, because it also contains something else that should not have been. However, this is an opportunity to try to make things right, to see what is actually there and to see what are the points of crisis we need to intervene on. For this reason, already in the Commission, my Group has withdrawn the amendments it had tabled in order to speed up the debate. Tonight, however, I hear that further amendments have been tabled. I hope they are not of the majority. It is not conceivable that, in the face of a deadline which is set at 7 June, on 5 June - I think - we should go to the House with a measure which, while it should not have had to have any dramatic changes, but only minor changes, in order to give an answer to those which you - especially you - of the majority say you want to listen to, then end up being bogged down by the amendments that are being tabled in the debate. Everyone says that it is a historic measure for companies, but I believe that, before rewarding you, you have to wait for the result: I am not convinced that this measure will end up realizing exactly what we all hope it will do, namely relaunch the economy, raising our businesses and our economic system from the difficulties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The monitoring work must therefore be well put in place, and we must know that we will have to come back to this measure, because simplifications do not seem very similar to me: on the contrary, in some cases they seem to me to be complications. This is the philosophy with which we are preparing - I hope quickly - to vote here in the Senate on this bill of conversion of the decree. There are many issues that we have raised and which have not been considered. One is, for example, that of the territorial articulation of relapses, which we do not know, but because we do not even know who must and who must not. Another is that of the occult system of the participants and the subsidiaries of the public administration, who also contract debts in the name and on behalf of the State or its joints, debts that will probably not be paid because the mechanisms do not fall exactly within this measure (we raised this question). Today, however, we believe that it is right to move forward. We suggest that the amendments which are not strictly necessary be withdrawn and that this measure be approved, which will then be returned to the House. Then we will see: let's give ourselves three or six months to understand if we have caught the sign and if we have finally identified the pathology, because identifying the pathology also serves to understand the cure. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u42	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to adopt allows EUR 40 billion to be injected into the country's economy, which is in a worrying recession. Companies, suppliers and professionals who have a credit with public administrations will finally be able to obtain the payment of the benefits provided, after a waiting period of months, if not even years, and will thus be able to continue to do business and to maintain jobs. Regions, Provinces, Municipalities, Social-Sanitary Companies and other public bodies will be able to fulfil the obligations assumed, as well as have some margin to issue new orders to guarantee the services and ensure the simple, but most indispensable, maintenance activities of schools and roads, as well as to contract new public works necessary for the development of the territories. There are two main reasons for delays in payments of public debt. First of all, there is the lack of financial coverage in the order of works, goods and services, which some public bodies have misguidedly used and for which a single fund is envisaged to ensure the liquidity of debt payments. Secondly, there is the excessive rigidity of the Internal Stability Pact, which prevents virtuous bodies from spending the money they have in the drawer; it is further confirmation that this institution requires urgent and profound reform: it is an issue on which we expect a serious commitment from the Government, without which local and territorial authorities, especially some particularly virtuous and well-run, cannot play a role of incentive and facilitation of economic recovery and the world of work. In our view, in place of those who are accustomed to spending irresponsibly without having financial cover, more had to be done in support of the virtuous institutions, cast by the Pact, which have well administered their resources. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Further measures had to be introduced to better monitor public expenditure, in order to avoid the exponential growth of debt, providing harsher sanctions for those who did not manage well or for those who would not administer public resources in the future. But so much so; we understand the ratio of the measure under consideration, whose sacrosanct objective is to put an end to the scandalous situation whereby our public system, at all its levels, does not settle its debts to the suppliers, who certainly cannot fail for the responsibility of some public administrator. But this decree, born again with the Monti Government, does not only deal with the release of the debts of public administrations. In Article 10 it also deals with TARES and criteria for determining the cuts in transfers to the Provinces. The TARES, introduced by Monti with the decree save-Italy in December 2011, is the new leap that from this year replaces the old TARSU and TIA, with which they will have to deal, in addition to the IMU and the increase of VAT, families, businesses, artisans, shopkeepers and free professionals. The TARES represents a new stagnate: it provides unsustainable increases for certain economic activities and, in particular, risks putting on the pavement some categories of traders (restaurants, bars, fruit growers, florists will suffer increases of the order of 300-400 percent). The end of the year balance, as introduced in the decree, will only worsen the burden of end-of-year taxes that will represent a real bloodbath for families and businesses. The Northern League, in line with the expectations of all trade associations of companies and ANCI, has tabled amendments for a full postponement of TARES: You're out of your mind. Of course, we have understood the difficulty of the Government to renounce the revenues of almost one billion euros previewed with the increase relative to the indivisible services of the Municipality (such as the public lighting and the maintenance of the roads), with which families and economic activities will have to pay an increase of 0,3 euros per square meter of dwelling, office, store possessed. As a North League, we hope that the House will accept an amendment which gives the municipalities the opportunity, without any new burden on the state budget, to postpone until 2014 the entry into force of the component linked to the coverage of the costs of the waste management service, which is the cause of the senseless increases for certain economic categories. For the Provinces, however, the measure introduces new criteria for the calculation of the cuts (a total of 1.2 billion euros for 2013), as established by the spending review and the law of stability of December 2012. Before the decree, the Provinces, as operated for 2012, had calculated the cut on the basis of the total intermediate consumptions; unfortunately the decree issued on April 8, therefore to the exercise budget for a long time programmed, has introduced new criteria. These new criteria have benefited Provinces like those of Naples and Caserta, which have high costs for the management, insufficient and inefficient, of the waste service; on the contrary, the same criteria have penalized, by chance, many Provinces of the North, like that of Lecco where I come from. It is regrettable to note not only that the amendments tabled by the North League were rejected at the time of the conversion of the decree, which would be more equitable for the calculation of the cuts. Even in the final document we have learned of the introduction of new criteria that further worsen the situation of the virtuous entities: even more rewards are awarded the Provinces with high staff costs, high costs for the collection of waste and high rent costs for their institutional offices. It is in the intention of many to eliminate the Provinces. Well, but as long as there are, until the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, of which the reform process has begun, the Provinces must be able to effectively exercise the functions and obligations assigned to them, including the occupation of provincial roads and high schools, which will certainly not disappear. In the next few hours we will face the decree for environmental emergencies, which will also deal with earthquakes, and all will reflect on the need to do work of prevention and safety of schools against seismic events. To date, however, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one certainty: there is not even money for simple maintenance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u44	She is registered to speak Senator D'Onghia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u45	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, when citizens call us to act in their own interests, when they call on us to take urgent decisions that can counter the daily progress of the crisis in the real economy, of businesses and of families, they refer to measures such as this. It is a measure that we receive as a legacy from the Monti Government, proving that in the impervious economic, political and social situation that the previous The Commission has been faced, even by making some mistakes, with the sole aim of finding a balance between the unavoidable commitments to be made with our European partners and the material facilitation of the working conditions of the Italians. Yes, because although it is indispensable to contribute to the human, social, even spiritual realization of citizens, we must not be ashamed to say that without money, or without the proper recognition of work, a life cannot be dignified. Well, this measure partially resolves a dispute between the State and its citizens, which is certainly not the result of a year of rigorous policies of the Monti Government, but of the adventurousness of the precedents, often interested only in carrying out that kind of reforms useful to a profit. Today we can no longer afford to look after our electoral consent. The citizens continue to send us clear signals of distrust that affect every slice of the political arc. Therefore, it is with the critical spirit of those who today challenge us that our work should be done. This decree is finally to be implemented with a view to the implementation of two European Directives: the 2000/35/EC of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 29 June 2000 and the subsequent 2011/7/EU of 16 February 2011. We must bear in mind that exactly 13 years later we are still failing to comply with the legislation, and this has caused serious damage to the economy. The decree previews a ceiling for the payment of the debts of the public administration for a total of 40 billion euros (20 in the second part of 2013 and 20 others in 2014). A measure that will lead to a growth of 1.2% of GDP over the next three years and an investment that, according to government estimates, will not affect the deficit-GDP ratio significantly, allowing it to remain largely below 3%. On this question there is one question: is it okay to have recovered these 40 billion, and perhaps to this we should apply, but how much does the debt of the public administrations correspond? The figures are very varied: from 70 to 140 billion euros, and no precise indication has come (the Bank of Italy only a few days ago spoke of 90 billion, of which 20 in capital account). We should immediately identify the exact figure: having a correct picture of the situation should be conducive to our action. We must not risk deceiving anyone. Unlocking these funds without having a clear idea of which and how many entities and in what quantities they need support could turn out to be a boomerang. To the companies, to the workers we need to give certain answers relative to the entire accumulated debt, as we demand from them certainties in the payments of the taxes. Therefore, our precise commitment must be to pay the entire debt and define certain times for payments; to be virtuous towards those who work will be useful for this country to avoid possible disputes and tensions between the various institutions. For this decree, it is important to have clear and simple procedures, able not to create shortcuts for anyone. Very well, however, the measure that excludes from the Internal Stability Pact, for 2013, payments of capital debt amounting to EUR 5 billion for local authorities, EUR 1.4 billion for the regions and EUR 800 million for investments co-financed by the Structural Funds. On April 30, the deadline for communicating the financial spaces needed by Municipalities and Provinces has expired, within which to support payments of certain, liquid and payable capital debts on December 31, 2012. Always having the certainty of debt should be a normal thing for a state. Today we are precisely setting up a single fund in the state budget to ensure the liquidity for the payments of those debts for municipalities, provinces and regions that do not enjoy liquidity: a budget of 10 billion euros for 2013 and 16 for 2014, with the contribution of national and international intermediaries and we hope also with the Cassa depositi e loani. In the liquidation of payments, the chronological criterion for each municipality or entity will be observed. With the last European agreement of January 2013, Italy has made a clear commitment to guarantee 30 to 60 days (like the other European nations) for public administration payments, and it would be useful to know if these commitments are respected by us today, in the new contracts. This is what the dramatic nature of the time we live in: long periods are unbearable, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises which, more than others, have difficulties in accessing credit. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the real social fabric in Italy, 95% of the total; they are those that materially guarantee that integration and that great thread of silent solidarity that has allowed our country to survive in this difficult moment. The recovery of loans from public administrations for small and medium-sized enterprises can mean continuing to exist or disappear. We should bear in mind the alarming data of Unioncamere, which sees 1,000 companies every day closed in 2012. The unemployment figure, which is 12.7% untenable, is the last figure of just a few days ago, which tells us that more than 5,000 companies failed in the first months of 2013. Many of them, perhaps, would not have been closed or failed if the State, which should be a protective belt for those who live and work there, had kept its commitments. So, colleagues, the commitment of us and the government that we support must be to give the country the connotations of that civilization that is the respect of the rules, especially on the part of those who make these rules. In our Italy there are many rules, sometimes in overlap with each other, but one essential is missing: the certainty of the times. So, in a world that moves, communicates and decides on the basis of the seconds, we are always in emergency, more from brake and never from towing, feeding that recessive spiral of which you do not see the end. Civic choice has contributed to the drafting of the decree under consideration, to which I must say with pleasure they have worked all political forces, keeping firm the compass that recognizes in the work the foundation of our democracy. As a Civic Choice we will work to give certainty to our country, to protect businesses, artisan work, farmers, traders, families and our young people. We must allow our excellences, which are many and often prestigious in terms of quality throughout the world, to have the strength to compete. Guaranteeing them certain payments and in a short time is the least we can and must do. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u46	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u47	Mr President, I want to denounce this House's bleak emptiness: this is yet another time, and we will never tire of doing so. I shall give up the intervention and use the time available to me to explain more fully the agendas presented. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mastrangeli, Marino Luigi and Palermo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u48	At this point, ladies and gentlemen, when considering the circumstances, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u51	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I would like to highlight a problem that is becoming important in the territory from which I come, and generally in Northern Italy, where the State is withdrawing from the territory and where, thanks to a forecast included in Decree-Law No 95 of 2012 (so-called spending review), the neighbourhood exercises and services indispensable to citizens and businesses are still affected. I am referring to the closure of certain offices of the Revenue Agency. Five locations are being closed in Veneto and another 6 in Piedmont. In fact, this follows 17 closures already made in the course of the year, since July last year to be precise. Nothing is actually known about the future of these structures, which - I would like to remind you - should come together with the Agency for the Territory, which should be strengthened, inter alia by providing citizens with a window for the cadastral services that are currently lacking. If we go to read the various press releases issued since 2008, we note that we have always assured the citizens of these territories that the Revenue Agency would be a firm point, and therefore it would never have been called into question, indeed it would have strengthened, the evasion of practices by further strengthening assistance to taxpayers. What is happening is exactly the opposite. Moreover, we must also point out that the choice that has been made in the cutting of the offices of the Agency of the reference revenue of the territories has been cancelled those of Nice Monferrato, Cossato, Brà, Chieri, Domodossola, Santhià, Pieve di Cadore, Badia Polesine, Castelfranco Veneto, Vittorio Veneto and Arzignano. I would just like to remind you that one of the reasons that with the spending review lead to cancel these services is obviously the economic issue. The fact that the staff will remain in the hands of the Revenue Agency is a concern, and public services for citizens will simply be removed, given that in many cases these offices produce thousands and thousands of certified services per year. Faced with this and despite the large deficit, all the listed municipalities have made themselves available to a free rental of premises to the Revenue Agency. Therefore, there is no objective reason to proceed with the closure of these offices which have very important functions and which, moreover, guarantee the presence of the State in the territories. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u54	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, Senators, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer you a brief reflection from a letter from a man who has served the State and who has recently learned that he has received honorary citizenship from the Municipality of Favignana, in Trapani. He writes: "In reviewing my human path of becoming aware of the true things of life, I have also analyzed my path of deepening my relationship with the State, I have examined my battles not easy but to which I have always believed in the awareness that the logic of a man of state is often a ground of confrontation against the overpowering of the Mafia dictatorship (...)." These are the words of Fulvio Sodano, Prefect of Trapani from 2001 to 2003, affectionately nicknamed the "prefect of the people," because of his role and his way of engaging in the fight against the mafia during his stay in the city. His story also passes among the felons of the public charge in the ongoing trial in Palermo that sees Senator D'Alì, of the PdL, accused for the crime of external competition in Mafia association. These were the times when a great event was being prepared in Trapani that very few knew; among them were certainly the bosses friends of politicians, and one in particular, Senator D'Alì, who was then negotiating to bring to Trapani the preliminary competitions of the America Cup: in other words, to bring in a boat of money to modernize the port. This being the case, Prefect Sodano preferred to turn directly to Calcestruzzi Ericina, a company confiscated in the 2000s to the chief mafia of Trapani Vincenzo Virga, as a reliable company (it was the state company). However, the solution adopted by Prefect Sodano seriously hindered the project of the mafia cosca and the reactions were not expected. "I have been transferred" - he will declare to the investigators the prefect of the people - "though I had asked Rome not to move me for health reasons." "U prefettu Sodano is tingu and avi aghiri " (translated for non-Sicilians: the Prefect Sodano is bad and he must leave"), said the entrepreneur Ciccio Pace, godfather by the will of the boss Matteo Messina Money to an unknown interlocutor. So it was. In fact, in 2003 Prefect Sodano, who had put the mobsters at the door, was suddenly transferred to Agrigento by the Berlusconi government. In front of this indifference passed the former mayor of Trapani, Fazio, mayor in 2005, who said no to the honorary citizenship for the prefect of the people, and the current mayor of Trapani, Vito Damiano, always belonging to the PdL. More than 600 Trapani citizens, while they proposed honorary citizenship from above, have been denied this right. Let's consider that the current mayor of Trapani has proposed honorary citizenship for sporting merits to the president of Trapani Calcio, who went to Serie B. In light of what has been said, I want to highlight how the man Fulvio Sodano, who represented our State, civil society and all Trapani citizenship, was humiliated by the indifference of the local representatives of the center-right, and in particular the mayor of Trapani Girolamo Fazio, the current mayor Vito Damiano and Senator D'Alì, the latter accused in Palermo for external competition in Mafia association. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u57	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, apart from the irritality of seeing this House discuss facts that refer to a judgment that concerns a senator outside the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I am surprised that you have not censored this fact. However, it doesn't matter, because I enjoy the absolute tranquility of the facts and the conscience since, as regards the transfer of the Prefect Sodano, speaks the judgment n. 14116 of 30 June 2011 of the Court of Rome, which has absolutely assured my linearity of behavior as a servant of the State, I don't know if more or how much the Prefect Sodano, but certainly in my role as Undersecretary within, role whose dignity I do not want to allow anyone to question. As for the other facts, I would suggest that Senator Santangelo better document himself on dates and episodes. The dates document that the transfer of Prefect Sodano was done in absolute regularity, as witnessed by the then Minister of the Interior, the then Chief of Cabinet, the then Chief of Police and many other authoritative exponents. This transfer has been made in absolute regularity, as even the temporal coincidences that the senator cited do not exist, since the great event and the transfer of Sodano are at least a couple of years apart from each other. Secondly, unfortunately, I am forced to enter into the substance of other issues, although I am not used to doing so because, as Senator Santangelo said, there is a pending judgment. I have never even gone to the press, from which, instead, Senator Santangelo derives these non-truths. Regarding the episode of the Calcestruzzi Ericina, to which it would have been prevented to make some supplies in occasion of the great event, it is to the acts of the same process that the Calcestruzzi Ericina has supplied 98 percent of the concrete conglomerate necessary to realize the widening of the port of Trapani and that it was not possible to provide the remaining 2 percent because it had exhausted the potentiality of the plants. I say this briefly so that colleagues can understand what it means to be in the media mince after a first judgment and before a second judgment can put a word of truth - or at least a word - about this affair that has been haunting me for years because of media pressure and the effect of someone who believes that I have not acted with dignity and consistency in my role as Undersecretary of State. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Mario Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u58	Senator D'Alì, I can't censor a senator's statements unless they exceed a certain level. Rule 88 of our Rules of Procedure is always at your disposal if you wish to protect yourself through the instruments provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u59	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-32.ana.u60	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Tuesday, June 4, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 3.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.56 p.m.
