ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 890.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u5	Mr President, fellow senators, representative of the Government, the rule proposed in paragraph 1 of Article 11 of the decree that we are discussing moves to 1 October 2013 the time limit from which the increase in the ordinary rate of VAT will be applied, which would thus go from 21 to 22%. The current deadline was set last July at 1 July 2013. With a record public debt (according to Eurostat, in the first quarter of 2013 the debt-to-GDP ratio reached 130.3 percent in our country, and we are exceeded only by Greece in this not enviable ranking), the measure on VAT, although with a clear exercise of prudence, seems inevitable if we do not want to inflict a definitive blow to consumption that, I would like to remind you, are equal to 80% of GDP (source Confcommercio), without of course forgetting that a possible increase in VAT would hit mainly and in particular the weakest and the incapacious. After all, we all know very well that with the current level of tax pressure every possibility of economic growth in our country is seriously compromised, if not non-existent. Faced with a recession that affects all the productive sectors of the country, the path of tax reduction must be forced and must necessarily go through a serious reform of the tax system that leads to simplification and reduction of the cost of compliance. The postponement of the increase in VAT would, for the time being, leave more money in the pocket for the Italians, allowing us to respect the budgetary constraints, but as the spokesman of the Commissioner for Economic Affairs Olli Rehn pointed out, the EU Commission needs to understand how to cover the hole in the accounts created by the postponement of VAT before commenting on the measure. It will therefore be necessary, and inevitable, to understand how to cover that hole, perhaps looking for a solution that goes beyond any postponement and that allows to find the resources to permanently cancel the increase of the VAT. One can try to think of a specific and targeted revision of the spending review or an acceleration of the disposal of the public real estate assets; a spending review that is not just an announcement, as happened with Decree-Law No 95 of 6 July 2012, which in practice proceeded only to linear cuts of the expenditure. The revision of expenditure is an extraordinary operation and as such it must be addressed, investing time (at least one year, the experts say) and investing resources to pay for professionals who have to draw up a kind of strategic plan for each sector and who must have strong political support. Probably in the years 2011 and 2012 the emergency in which we found our country prevented this operation but I think it is time to invest resources and political capital. We can no longer afford to wait; above all, all we need is effective sentences and daily shots, which must be sent back with courage to the sender, especially if this is our political ally. For the current year, consumption is expected to decline further by 3%, along with an increase in absolute poverty. Faced with this picture, the signs of recovery for 2013 are really hard to see. We must then have the courage to design and not only manage; we must have the courage to say that the problem of Italians is not the IMU on the first house, because studies tell us otherwise. We must perhaps have the courage to take unpopular decisions, but they must go in the right direction, reducing the inequality force that makes the rich richer and poorer and poorer. Yesterday a colleague of the 5 Star Movement said that we reduced the Fund by 7.6 million for the ordinary operation of universities; in fact, the appropriations for universities are not reduced, but they are increased, because for the same amount we finance, in Article 2, the training activities during the course of graduation studies in order to make the alternation between study and work effective. The planned budget is €3 million for 2013 and €7.6 million for 2014. Therefore, this decree provides for an increase in resources for universities and not a cut. A colleague of the League yesterday affirmed that with this decree we feed again the Regions not virtuous, like Campania; this does not correspond to the truth, because paragraphs 13 and 16 of Article 11 supplement the dispositions for the procedure of determination of the deficits and, consequently, the definition of the plans of return in matter of regional railway transport of the Campania Region. The return plans will be implemented in five years and have as their aim the reorganization and redevelopment of the regional mobility system on iron. The provisions do not have any financial impact on public finance balances. I conclude with what is contained in the Manifesto of the young ruling classes: it is necessary to proceed to a generational change of the ruling classes of the country in order to ensure that the economic recovery starts from the potential of the young; the country, in order to innovate and modernize, must necessarily draw on what we can define the unexpressed potential of its thirty-forty-year-olds. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u6	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u7	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us contains important measures, and it is particularly important that the People of Freedom, but certainly shared, what is the postponement, or rather the cancellation of the increase in VAT: an increase that would probably not have brought more revenue because it would have caused a decrease in our consumption, so it would have simply contributed to depressing them, with everything that results also at the level of mere revenue for the State, without creating any benefit. Therefore, it is worthwhile that VAT will not increase. The measure also contains rules for the promotion of employment, particularly for young people. I would like to dwell on a specific point of the decree-law recalling an episode of the last legislature: the Monti Government thought of obtaining money, necessary to improve the balances of our budget, increasing the taxes on pleasure boats to an extent, providing for an income for the State, following this imposition, of 150 million euros; of course all this had to go to balance of the expenses and so on. The reality is that, instead of cashing 150 million, 13 were collected, but the damage was much higher than those 137 million euros missing. They were not wrong predictions in the sense that the audience had been misjudged, because the audience was that: if the number of pleasure boats had remained the initial one, the collection would have been 150 million. The fact that from 150 million people fell to 13 million means that more than 90 percent of recreational craft have either been dismantled or moved abroad; therefore, instead of creating a benefit of 13 million for the State (not that is the benefit), a serious damage has been created, because all the induced, all the expenses that are connected to that sector have gone abroad or have ceased altogether and the jobs have been canceled and transferred abroad. I quote this episode because in Decree-Law No. 76 there seems to be another case of this kind: in Article 11, paragraph 22, a specific taxation on electronic cigarettes is introduced. I hope that the Undersecretary, engaged in the papers, will also be able to listen to me; I do not doubt your abilities and I address you as a representative of the Government. Is the government sure that by establishing this tax the revenue will increase and will not decrease instead? I was surprised to see that no one thought to consult, or even to have reliable data on what the market for electronic cigarettes is today in Italy. When this decree was introduced, the association of entrepreneurs in this sector, in which Italy is today leader in Europe, with a significant export, said that a taxation of this kind, not only for the size but even more for the ways in which it is introduced, will probably cause the closure of thousands of shops, therefore the loss of thousands of jobs, and also the cessation of the activity of many plants that produce these substances. It is true that these plants also work for export, but at the time when the Italian market will be deserted, since - as is known - taxation, labour costs, general conditions are not particularly favourable in Italy compared to other countries and many of the companies that produce electronic materials are located in Northern Italy, often close to the border with foreign countries, it is clear that these will move their production plants by a few kilometers: so we will lose thousands of jobs, revenue for the State in terms of income tax and we will end up losing also the existing revenue deriving from the current VAT placed on these products. I have presented to the Commission, and re-tabled in this House, a proposal for a higher rate, not to cancel this tax but to introduce it in a form that is payable and therefore collectible from the State: instead of putting it on the product sold, with an increase and an advance of costs on the part of the dealers, I propose to put it on production. It is good to know that already today hundreds of electronic cigarette shops have closed because they have probably overestimated the growth capacity of the market and the lack of funds needed to invest more. At a time when each of these small businesses - usually run by those young people who claim to want to help in terms of employment - will be obliged to anticipate, under this decree, something like 100,000 euros of taxes (because they will have to be subject to the same regime as those who sell tobacco and ordinary cigarettes), thousands of these shops will likely close, resulting in the loss of jobs and revenues for the state and people who have invested money will find themselves without work and with debts to pay. Assuming that the considerations - which should be fundamental - on the jobs in sales and manufacturing companies are also left aside, 58 percent of nothing is much less than 21% of something from the point of view of revenue. I would therefore ask the Government to examine this aspect carefully, otherwise we will be facing another resounding and very harmful autogol, such as that on recreational boats: in order to compensate for the failure to increase VAT, instead of introducing a devastating tax on recreational boats, it might have been better to remove it; The state would probably have earned money because someone would have returned to our country. We cannot say every day, even with great emphasis and sincerity, that we want to defend and promote employment and then, with measures like this - alas not only - not only we do not encourage but we destroy, almost knowingly and specifically, a growing sector. Is there a growing sector and where Italy is the leader? Let's destroy it: in this way the operators will go abroad and we will have obtained the good result of having less revenue, jobs that move abroad and desperate young people, because without work, after investing in a store, and with debts. I hope that I am wrong where the proposals I have put forward - taxation at the time of production and not resale, which affects only the actual successor part of the smoke and not accessories that have nothing to do with the specific activity and that you can very well buy in an electronics store, being identical for an electronic cigarette, a mobile phone or other electronic equipment - should not be accepted. Who will refuse such a proposal? Wanting too much and killing the golden-egged chicken is not a good investment. At a time when this refusal remains, those who express it take responsibility for it: if in a year's time these thousands of jobs are lost, someone will have to come and explain why he said no to these proposals and killed thousands of jobs. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Favero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u8	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u9	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Decree-Law No 76 was examined in the 5th Commission (Budget), which gave a favourable opinion with observations, as far as its competence is concerned, i.e. with regard to the financial coverage of the interventions. The examination of the more than 700 amendments drawn up on several occasions has been challenging and we thank the staff of the Office, who supported me, as rapporteur, and the other Commissioners in a precise and precise manner. The law we are approving contains a number of various measures, but the most important package concerns urgent measures to promote employment, particularly young people. The aim of these measures is to encourage employers to recruit under permanent employment contracts young people between the ages of eighteen and twenty-nine, to encourage the vocational apprenticeship contract and to promote training traineeships. The measure also contains urgent measures for youth employment and anti-poverty in the Mezzogiorno, the Cohesion Action Plan, education and training provisions and much more in the field of employment relations. The implementation of all these measures will lead to a net increase in the youth employment base and a greater qualification of the job potential. I would like to focus here only on one of these areas of intervention, namely the provisions on training traineeships, and to make a recommendation to the Government on the inclusion of the gender dimension in measures affecting the world of work. With regard to training traineeships, although not always properly conducted by host administrations; the experiences of these years have borne fruit, have given young people a good chance to experience and administrations an injection of enthusiasm and innovation, although sometimes they have been misused to replace vacant staff. The measure provides for the State administrations to set up a fund at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, with a budget of 2 million euros for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, for a total of 6 million; also for the University there is an incentive on the basis of a specific agreement (3 million euros for 2013 and 7.6 for 2014). The only painful note concerns the other public administrations, which have to pay for the burdens arising from this measure using the ordinary budget appropriations, drawing primarily from the funds allocated to the financing of tasks and advice, without prejudice to the invariability of public finance balances. This is a problem: it should be noted that Article 6 (7) of Decree-Law No 78 of 2010 provided that expenditure on assignments and advice should be contained within the limit of 20% of that recorded for the 2009 financial year. These expenditure chapters are therefore very little more compressible; therefore, if we really want to encourage traineeships at local level, we need to find another way of covering them. I come to the recommendation to the Government that the gender dimension should be included in the work-related measures. The reading of the employment rate, unemployment and the number of young people who stop looking for work provides an information basis from which to start to outline policies, which is much clearer if read with the gender dimension. Young women have lower employment rates, higher unemployment rates and, especially in the South, they give up more of their job search, which is the real symptom of distrust of the world of work but also of recognition of their talents. In the difficult situation we are experiencing, rather than getting closer, we are moving away from the Lisbon objective of 60% female employment. In some parts of Italy, in particular the urban areas of the North, the percentage of women in employment is close to the target, while in the South the gap becomes more dramatic. We have all signed the Istanbul Convention together and we talk every day about combating violence against women: well, the best way to combat abuse in the family is to give dignity to women through work and economic independence, which allows them to escape situations of violence. However, I do not want to take on the defence of a disadvantaged category here, but to point out that the work of women is an advantage for the whole community. All studies show that a substantial increase in GDP goes through the increase in women's work; that all organizations are positively affected by a balanced gender mix; that the creation of a female job has a multiplier effect of 1.3, because a working woman needs help at home, if she has children she needs a babysitter, buys ready food and more. In conclusion, I call on the Government to pay greater attention to the gender dimension, in all measures, to better define policies, to make them more incisive in the labour market, with benefits, not only for girls and women, but also for the entire economic development, families and men. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u10	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u11	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this measure, I say from the opposition's benches, has a merit, that of continuing to propose, if we also want schizophrenically, the same interventions that have been present in the literature on labour policy for some decades. These actions have been useful at times, mainly to support an economy that is growing and for short periods, but absolutely ineffective in relation to the current objectives of boosting employment. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and the representative of the Government to this kind of philosophy. The aim is to transform, rather, let's say more, the encouragement of permanent employment contracts, as in the case of Article 1, by helping the system of enterprises to employ people belonging to disadvantaged groups (it will then be necessary to read what are identified)... (Brusio). Mr President, the buzz always accompanies this House. Sometimes it would also be useful to understand why a decree-law, which is therefore already law, identifies the category of young people living alone with one or more dependent persons; to read it in Italian would seem an absurd: how does a young person live alone and have even one or more dependent persons? [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] One might think that maybe they went looking for that young man and that maybe that's the philosophy. Look, this is an intervention "a door", which has the function of giving a few million euros immediately. This type of intervention is also present in literature and has been experimented, so much so that a system was made in Sicily and something was done also in Sardinia; "a door" the facilities are taken: the large shopping centers have become golden through this instrument. It is presented here in the same way, so it refers to who it is to refer to, and we know who it is to refer to: it is a photograph. It is a photograph that does not increase employment and that does not even make it stable, because only for eighteen months the companies will have the reduction of the business cost of an employee through the reduction of social security contributions for one third of the gross monthly salary. For eighteen months, I repeat, and we all know that indeterminate time is no longer such, because when the worker no longer serves, he will be expelled. But the perplexities also concern the way we identify companies. We talk about additional employment because of a net that is the result of an average of the last 12 months, without prejudice to the decreases also of the subsidiaries or participated companies of the subject who has assumed. It is so precise, so detailed that I wonder if we would first indicate the name and surname of the company or the business group that we must favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Maybe it's right. Maybe we have to do this because we are all Europeans, we are all in favour of the free market, but we can use the leverage of public money to help our businesses. Maybe that's right, I repeat. On the one hand, however, we have this attitude and on the other we have an increasingly flexible working relationship. Therefore, we argue that we want to create stable working relationships but, at the same time, we very much favour the flexibility of working relationships because companies use that tool. And watch out, let's do something really unbearable. Do you know what training and guidance internships are? They are tools created to allow voluntary work experience for young people in the interests of young people, and there are parameters for which alongside the young person who is being prepared a tutor must be present; there is no public or private subject who does not have to respect a relationship between trainees and workers for an indefinite time and with experience within the company. However, we transform the training and guidance training, Minister, into a bad case, into a way of exploiting youth work: we insert the young person into the company with the idea of doing his own interests, while in fact we give another help to the enterprise. And this is also the case in the public administration: the State is also enriched with work that does not pay, which recognizes only a reimbursement of expenses, an allowance of four lire. And he manages desperation in negative terms. We cannot continue to cultivate this country in a moisture of illegality that is legalized by the laws, laws that we also contribute to launch and that do not solve the problem: they leave it there and, in addition, introduce negative cultural elements. After all of us have spent our time claiming that we need to qualify young people to give them a perspective, what do we do with Article 1? Let us give priority to dequalified young people. But let's put the problem of removing them from dequalification and qualifying them! Paragraph 2 of the article, Minister, refers in fact to young people who do not have a diploma from upper secondary school or not even a vocational school. We must spend more and better our money, even depriving ourselves of some privileges that we have accumulated, to invest them in behalf of young people and to remove them from dequalification! We have to qualify young people! Bring them back to the universities! Philosophy must be totally reversed. This is a measure that does not help us. It is a manifest measure that we hope the government will change. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Senators Albano, De Pin and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u12	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u13	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, after a long and tortuous iter, carried out also and above all in the Commission, today comes to this House the measure known to all as the 'decree on the postponement of VAT'. The text, in fact, is divided into two important sections that deal with as many important and important issues: work, with some provisions that punctually and inexorably end up at the expense of the North, and, precisely, the postponement on VAT. On one of the two points, the work, with the exception of the intervention on the Fornero reform (reform that everyone has undergone), in order to cancel its negative effects on the term contracts, referred to in Article 7 of the measure under consideration, we do not believe that we can share the other measures adopted to revive the employment, for the simple reason that the strategy pursued by this Government in the matter of employment policies continues to characterize itself of welfare for the South, thus subtracting resources to the North. The resources allocated and the incentives provided, in fact, end up subsidising only southern young people who have not continued their studies and to whom we do not give, therefore, even opportunities for growth or subsequent study and who no longer live with the family of origin. However, on the subject of work my colleagues have already explicitly referred to what we consider critical points and expressed our view on the negativity of the measure itself. But I would like to focus on VAT: this measure, as far as VAT is concerned, shows the government's inability to do so even more clearly than with regard to work. Not later than a month ago, colleagues, the Minister for Economic Development, during the assembly of an important trade association, said that he would like to avoid it, but there was no choice: VAT would increase by one point from July. Vibrant then were the disputes of those who were present in the room, especially because only those who work, trying with difficulty to save themselves from this devastating crisis, know very well what a percentage increase in the ordinary rate of VAT: yet another inevitable fall in consumption! Yes, because this Government, starting with the Minister of Economic Development, would do well to read the consolidated results of the revenues of indirect taxes of the first five months of 2013 that mark a decrease of 3.5 percentage points, with a lower income for the treasury of 2.6 billion euros compared to the same period of 2012. (Brusio). I'm sorry no one wants to hear this, but anyway, I think it's right to report this data to you. In particular, I would ask the Government and the Presidency to pay attention. Do you want to know what is the voice that has collapsed more than any other, according to the data I have just given you? It is VAT, gentlemen: the VAT that in a year allowed the state, precisely because of the high level of this tax, not to collect almost 3 billion euros, an important figure for the country in this moment of considerable crisis. An incredible shortage caused - by chance - by a fall in domestic demand. The citizens, in short, because of the high taxation and the few revenue due to a number of reasons that I believe are known to you, do not consume, or do not buy, and not buying the tax revenue decreases and entrepreneurs, small artisans, traders, close the business. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, those present in the Chamber protested that the more taxes are increased, the more VAT is increased, the more companies die. And the more the companies cease, the more unemployment will increase, that is that tragedy of the work that you count to resolve with the provisions contained within this same measure: the most classic example of the dog that bites the tail! We cannot therefore be satisfied with the decision taken by the Commission within this measure, because the good news of the postponement from July to October of the increase in VAT does not solve the problem, but only moves it forward a few weeks. In short, uncertainty continues to reign, the rule that this Government has now assumed, that is not to choose. Uncertainty, however, is also accompanied by iniquity. As for the previous Executive, in fact, for this Government too, taxes are like cherries: one pulls the other. And so, the only financial cover found to suspend VAT which was? The increase in IRPEF and IRAP advances. What a great idea, what a great news, what a capacity to save this country! Perhaps we could think about it earlier or perhaps it was better to avoid this kind of intervention - and I address the Government - with actions that are even more vexatory towards companies that have to give work. When and how can they give work, if they're closing? Do not increase VAT, fearing a further fall in consumption by taxpayers, to increase tax advances on taxpayers and companies: in the series, with one hand we give you something, with the other we take double! But let us take what taxpayers will no longer be able to produce. I appeal in particular to the Government that has made these choices: an exorbitant number of our companies is closing and therefore will not be able to produce absolutely any type of income for the state in terms of VAT or consumption, because they are going continuously towards closure. The reality now is that uncertainty has become at home in this Government. Not later than a few weeks ago we examined the measure on the suspension of the IMU, the hateful tax that the previous Government wanted and that was voted by majority vote of the PD-PdL Groups. Then that someone is now trying to delete the IMU or modify it doesn't matter: let's remember who wanted this tax. Well, for this measure too, what has the Government chosen? The postponement, yet another non-choice. This waltz of delays and suspensions, however, has now come to an end, ladies and gentlemen. We arrived at the end of July and it will also pass August, but in September the problems will come back. Despite the delays, the municipalities will have to draw up their own budgets and taxpayers will have to pay the IMU instalment (if it will be the first or the second we will see) and prepare to also support the payment of another gabella, always imposed by the previous government, called TARES. I believe that all this can be enough to assume that this country at the end of the year could see the failure of families and businesses, thanks to this government that has followed the line of the previous government. All of us in the League ask: when does the Government think it is going to make concrete choices? When do you think it's time to choose with courage and will to restore momentum to the country and strength to families that can no longer reach the end of the month? We ask to make a choice of courage that has not been there until today. We ask that with regard to real estate tax, which continues to vex citizens, we can think of a solution that leads to the relaunch of the real estate market, the building market and the related input. I remember that the high tax evasion, particularly widespread in some known areas of the country that you well know, continues to burden always and in any case on the shoulders of the usual known. Soon, then, it will also have to be addressed the node of the TARES. This government, therefore, we are sure not only will lack one thing: the work, what is missing from the rest of the country and our young people! But if there is not the ability and the will to put in order and to give priority to the problems in order to solve them, then the whistles I referred to earlier, addressed to the Minister at a meeting with the workers, will probably become for the Minister and for the government very deafening. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u14	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, who look at us and listen to us before arriving here at the Senate, I have often asked myself - and today I repeat the same reflection in this House - whether it is possible, in a country like Italy, to live and live well with tourism. I have therefore made a simple, elementary analysis, since we are simple senators, simple citizens, starting from the territory I know best (maybe on other occasions we will make a virtual trip to the various regions): Sicily, a territory rich in sea, sun and with an architectural heritage of inestimable value distributed in an area of about 26,000 square kilometers. A territory often offended, mistreated, whose cultural heritage is the result of a contact with very different peoples, a contact often unharmonious. In Sicily came the Sicani, the Siculi, the Greeks, the Romans, the Byzantines, the Arabs, the Normans, the Swabians, the French and the Spanish. It is a land full of natural reserves. I list only a few of them: the Isola Bella di Taormina, the nature reserve of Monte Pellegrino, the Zingaro reserve, the nature reserve of Vendicari, the reserve of the Irminio river, the gorges of Alcantara, Etna... MANCUSO (PdL). The Nebrodi Park. SANTANGELO (M5S). That's right, the Nebrodi Park. I also make a brief summary of the architectural beauties, the most important monuments. Why not think of the temples of Agrigento, Segesta, Selinunte, the splendid mosaics of the villa of Casale di Piazza Armerina? Why not remember the superb duomos of Palermo, Cefalù, Monreale, the Sicilian baroque, which is not only that of Val di Noto, the Punic town of Erice, Mozia? And we don't keep going. That's all we stop at. I ask you, Mr President (I do this virtually, because I know that we cannot open a debate at this time), and to all of you senators, dear distracted colleagues in this House: is it possible that we cannot live on tourism in this country? The next item is: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 76 of 28 June 2013 on the first urgent measures for the promotion of employment, in particular youth (...)" I am a member of the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism, and I wonder why one minute has not been spent here in the Senate to talk about the real industry in Italy, that is, tourism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Even today we have not found the time to do so. I say that by raising the tone of my voice a little, and I apologize, because it's something we believe in. I believe that, thinking of a respectful use of the territory, tourism can develop better; but I also think of a clean energy that respects the territory, its planning and the training of young people in the clean energy and tourism sectors. I'm saying a whole series of simple, non-revolutionary things, and we're not talking about it yet. I insist: with the green economy and the blue industry you can find thousands of jobs for young people in tourist services, in the protection of the territory, in the artistic goods, in the agri-food market and in the handicrafts, becoming a formidable opportunity of training and of first employment for Italy, for Italy as a whole. Last technical government made everyone tighten the belt, it really did; so much so that simple people, simple citizens like me decided to come here to try to change or to help you who are experts in changing things. I still remember the tears of a minister in here: they were false tears that did not move Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We all remember her well again. Then, dear President (let me use this term), it happens that, although these classrooms were initially blocked by the failure to form the standing committees, these, after their constitution, were exonerated from the decree-laws arrived the evening for the next day, preventing simple and normal people like us from understanding what the system was to be able to modify and contribute effectively to improving this Italy. Today, therefore, the parliamentary classrooms are blocked by another attitude. The real obstructionism, Mr President, is not ours, but what the Government and this majority are putting into effect: on the one hand, trust is placed and on the other hand, the measures under consideration are being armored. Yesterday on Decree-Law No 61 of 2013, a fundamental measure on the ILVA, but that does not only concern that industrial group, we were asked to withdraw the amendments that had been prepared with serious, thorough work, to improve the decree-law [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , in order to contribute to the improvement. We have also discussed with our colleagues in the PdL and PD; meanwhile they have withdrawn them, not thinking about the interests of Italians and citizens, not thinking that even today people die for this unsustainable and unacceptable development of the territory. Mr President, today I would have brought and shown a thousand signs to the House, but I cannot do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, I still expose them virtually the same way. It says, "Shame yourselves!" [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u16	She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what has been said, this measure has been discussed very thoroughly in the Commission, and it has also been assessed very carefully by the Government, which has made a considerable contribution to improving its text. A text - I am referring above all to Article 1 - which has come out in an unintelligible way and is not easy from the point of view of reading the article and the bureaucratic procedures. I understand the role and task of the opposition, but I am surprised, therefore, that the contribution made by all the Commissioners has not been appreciated, as well as - I repeat - by the Government and by the Presidency of the Committees on Labour and Finance, to this measure which - if we want to - we can still define in progress. In fact, the amendments tabled by the majority are being considered - which, unlike the previous speaker, have not been withdrawn - but also many of the opposition's amendments, which can be rewritten by the Government, as is being done, in order to clearly meet the budgetary requirements. As we all know, and my fellow Members know, many of the amendments have been rejected - a bit like they did yesterday for those tabled on the justice measure - because the Budget Committee has voted against them. Some amendments, however, were also voted on because they were simply against, unlike others who were neither examined nor put to the vote because the opposition had been expressed on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution. This measure starts a change of course for our country, now gripped by an economic, employment and social crisis really serious. It gives the first responses, especially in the area of youth employment, to which it offers guarantees, and is in line with the mainly European policy guidelines. This is, in fact, a measure closely linked to European policy lines and directives, being our - as is well known - a large country in Europe. I therefore believe that the attitude of the Labour Commission, which has worked at times which have gone far beyond those of the Permanent Commissions, should be enhanced, precisely in order to give answers and examine this text which speaks of youth employment and stable work. It allows employers to obtain incentives for young people from 18 to 29 years of age, against the resources available, especially to make permanent employment contracts and thus meet the demand for stable work. We know that the stability of work, thanks to permanent contracts, results in a series of additional safeguards and guarantees for young people, even for those who want to build a family and find it difficult to do so with a fixed-term job. In this case they are offered not only an opportunity for work, but also stability and social tranquility. In addition, Article 1, which has been amended for further simplification of procedures, provides for the possibility for employers to obtain incentives for the transformation of contracts from fixed time to indefinite time. There is talk of start-ups, aid, training internships; resources are provided for young people so-called NEETs (i.e. young people who do not work, do not study and do not form) for training internships, for apprenticeships, but also for curricula, in order to really have an alternance school-work for young people. They're answers. Of course, they may not be exhaustive answers, but they strike a balance and find a solution in the economic situation in which we find ourselves. The measure also contains tax measures. We postponed the increase in the VAT rate: this was also an intervention that had been loudly requested by everyone, not only in this House, but by all categories and consumers themselves. These are not demagogic or useless measures, but a necessary start to change the current trend. Among other things, market assessments against Italy are always negative (even yesterday) because they say that there is no prospect of growth. So let us trust these measures, which are open as a majority - but I have also seen further improvements as a Government by the Ministers and the Undersecretaries themselves. I would like to conclude by taking up a passage from Mr Malan's speech, although it is certainly a marginal topic compared to the importance of the many issues raised by this measure (social shock absorbers, poverty, especially in the Mezzogiorno, the charter for social inclusion). I too have tabled a number of amendments, which I hope will be carefully assessed by the other forces of the majority, but above all by the Government, on electronic cigarettes, taking into account the many e-mails we have received. I too believe that so-called ethical taxation can only be useful on devices that contain nicotine or other substitutes, and that it is absolutely not necessary to introduce this extremely heavy taxation (58.5%) on the technical instrument, that is, what is needed for the use of electronic cigarettes. In fact, surely the measure previews an income (the estimates speak of a total value of the section of approximately 200 million euros); a ulterior increase of consumption is previewed, but always if the taxation on this product is not increased, that certainly is going well. There are many producers, many shops, even online, that would close. Therefore, I do not understand why, as has also been said in the Commission, taxation should cover the whole of the electronic cigarette, and we cannot, for example, separate the bottles from the technical instrument used for its use. In short, I hope, as Mr Malan rightly and very well said in his speech, but also as is expected in some of the amendments tabled by the political forces, that a solution can be found on this point. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Angioni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Undersecretary, many of the previous speeches have reiterated that the term 'young people' in large parts of our country has long since no longer represented the working age of up to the age of 24-25, but not even the age of 29. Instead it moves more and more than 35 and 40, to what should be instead the age of full professional affirmation of the people. So when we talk about young people, particularly in the Mezzogiorno, we talk about different age groups. This is a point that cannot be underestimated, and to remain firm within the 29-year-old group, as the decree-law we are considering today is almost forced to make for an order of priority of problems, but also for the necessary reference to Community rules, it means not fully grasping the anxiety of those 30-year-olds for whom it becomes increasingly difficult to enter the world of work without economic incentives. That is why I believe that, at least for the paths of high formation, it is necessary and you can, already today in the conversion of the decree-law, bring the threshold of incentive up to at least 32 years. Among other things, the average age of our graduates at the end of the specialized is 27 years for males and 26 years and six months for women. These are just media data. It seems to me that there is very little time left to stay within the 29 years that give the possibility of incentives. The Decree-Law currently under consideration makes a choice by promoting the stable employment of young people, especially those in particular situations of disadvantage. Once again, however, we must note the small amount of resources, undoubtedly not nearly enough to overcome one of the biggest problems in our country. However, it is to be appreciated that the choices that the Government proposes go in the sense that we wish to commit more resources, at least among those available, for the Mezzogiorno and for the disadvantaged. And it seems to me that the criticisms - there have been several interventions in this sense - which identify in the small number of people who can benefit from the main reason for opposition to the decree. It would be as if, since the resources available today can help only a few tens of thousands of people, compared to the hundreds of thousands of young people who would need them, we said at first: you are so few that we prefer not to give you anything together with all the others. It does not seem logical to me; it does not seem fair to me; on the contrary, it seems to me a rather destructive approach. Let's say therefore: scarce resources yes, but important instruments, in particular if accompanied by additional resources, and perhaps important especially for the future. We also consider the objective of giving apprenticeships back the role of an ordinary tool for the entry of young people into the stable labour market. I'll tell my colleague Uras. The guidelines for harmonizing discipline throughout the national territory are good, although on apprenticeships we must say that in order to restore this role to this contract we need, with rare exceptions, to weaken in perspective all those contractual forms, perhaps less binding and less expensive, but that they can hardly give the young man the hope of a stable professional path. I shall begin my conclusions quickly, with two reasons for reflection. The first concerns the repeal of the reduced rate to 4% of social cooperatives and their consortia, as provided for in the Stability Act for 2013. Mr President, representatives of the Government, with social cooperation we are talking about a fundamental piece of welfare in our country. The increase in VAT to 10%, operating from 1 January next year, risks compromising the very existence of many social cooperatives, with the loss of work of many workers and the cessation of important social services in the territory. If the measure that we are going to vote on today cannot contain the repeal of paragraph 489 of article 1 of the law of stability, I hope that at least there can be the commitment of the Government to return to the subject with the law of stability for 2014, without early closures, of course, but also without prejudice. I turn to the second and last point of reflection: in the area of youth work, I believe that we need to think about the crisis but also about the future and future prospects of the present young people. Today, of course, we must first of all consider how to promote the employment of the youngest, but we must also think sooner or later about the possibility for them, as their fathers, uncles and grandparents, have had, of being put in a position to one day have a fair and dignified pension, which is complicated with a professional path to hiccups, precarious, with more or less long periods of unemployment. For this reason, among other things, the costs of recovery for graduation contributory purposes, for example, have become prohibitive for the majority of workers for too many years. It is not consistent with the reference to the commitment to study for the youngest, if it is not allowed to assert that commitment even for contributory purposes. Even for this reason, it is no coincidence that the degree can be considered by too many young people as an unnecessary burden of life, a delay in entering the world of work, a further loss of years of contribution. I think that, together with all the other issues that we have to deal with, with the start of the examination of this measure today, it is worth thinking about these aspects as well. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u20	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u21	I call the rapporteur, Senator Gatti.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you for the attention and care you have taken in discussing and addressing the problems that this measure poses. I would like to make a couple of preliminary clarifications and then conclude the reply with five considerations. First, the intervention of Senator Ricchiuti raises me from having to tell Senator Vacciano of the 5 Star Movement Group that for this time the President of the Council will not resign, as it is true that the fund for the ordinary functioning of the universities, in article 12, is reduced by 7.6 million for 2014, but then to article 2, paragraph 10, is previewed the engagement of 3 million for 2013 and 7.6 million for 2014 to be allocated to the support of the activities of internship curriculum for the university students. So this is an absolute increase in the ordinary fund (3 million for 2013) and a specific use of the university funds in relation to the ordinary fund. Therefore, that element of controversy seems to me to be of little significance. The second point I would like to address is the constraints on access to the incentive set out in Article 1. In the debate in the Commission we have already dealt with this issue, and with an amendment by the rapporteurs we have deleted point (c) of paragraph 2: Amendment 1,5000 (b) deletes precisely point (c) concerning those who live alone with one or more dependent persons. Since there was a real problem of interpretation, a difficulty in translating from English that formulation, also from the point of view of our country's registry, that point was eliminated with an amendment of the Commissions gathered. As far as the last two constraints are concerned, they must not be at the same time, but either. Compared to issues related to people and high training, I note that in our country unfortunately there are many graduates and many people with high specialization unemployed for more than six months, who have not had a job regularly paid for more than six months. So, there is no such exclusion. More generally, I would like to call on the whole House to reflect on one point: we are a country where absolute poverty is increasing a lot, and every time we recall the difficulties of an Italy where inequalities are widening. We must therefore take responsibility for reducing these inequalities, for intervening in favour of people with serious discomfort. We are a country where school leaving is growing dramatically. We must demand - and this is one way of doing so - that young people can conclude a course of study, including through vocational training courses, school-work alternation courses. These are fundamental and general issues. I shall now proceed to five quick reflections. As regards the economic incentive for recruitment, particularly of young workers, the measure under consideration makes a choice. Although there are also particular elements, such as 50% of the ASPI for the recruitment of workers who benefit from social shock absorbers and who cover other sectors, the measure makes a fundamental and non-trivial choice. We are trying, with limited resources, to partially solve the problem. The measure will not have a disruptive effect and it will not be the element that will reactivate the growth of the country, but we never thought that reforming the rules of the labour market could be sufficient: it will be necessary to make investments of a very different nature and substance. But these interventions must be done. There were unused funds which could be used to create stable jobs, such as incentives for permanent recruitment. Some of the constraints of Law No 92 of 2012 are reviewed and relaxed. I believe that from this point of view national bargaining has already given a number of indications: for example, in the contract of metalworkers a series of rules has been revised that reduce the space of time contracts. Another key point is the establishment of a kind of task force for the reordering of employment services and their coordination with active policies. It is an indispensable intervention if we want to give the Youth Guarantee legs and instruments, the opportunity we have to exploit resources - these are much more substantial - that will be available from 2014 to give young people in this country, in a situation of serious crisis, who risk seeing entire generations without any contact with the world of work, the possibility, within four months of graduation, graduation or exit from the labour market, to have a contact with the world of employment. Then there is the question, to which Senator Favero also referred, of the experimentation of the inclusion card, which I would like to begin to call in this way, because it is about experimenting forms of income support for the most disadvantaged situations. We're in a serious condition. In the period from 2007 to 2011, as far as absolute poverty is concerned, our country has gone from 4.1 to 5.7 percent of the population, and to the South from 6 to 8.8 percent. With the resources available and with all the existing limits, we must take action to ensure that extreme situations are absolutely clear. You have to get people out of these situations of despair. There is no doubt that considerable problems remain, such as those relating to the supplementary fund by way of derogation. The past few weeks we have approved the so-called IMU-CIG decree on the IMU and the Integration Fund, but we know perfectly well - and Senator Cantini also remembered in her speech - how much it is necessary to find funds for its refinancing. We will have to tackle the issue of exodus, but also the issue of small mobility. Think of what it means for companies under 15 employees no longer have the tool that allowed these workers to have an incentive for re-employment. Finally, I would like to mention what has been said about the VAT freeze in the social and health sectors and in general. This is a legislative measure that intervenes in a very defined and specific area, but important, and we must not underestimate the fact that we are intervening, as we have not often done, following the European indications and inserting ourselves in the European context with an employment policy for the young people of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Sciascia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u23	I call the rapporteur, Senator Sciascia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u24	Mr President, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by my fellow Members and I will make two brief and brief comments. The first observation is that it has been pointed out several times that the application of the consumption tax of 58.5% on so-called electronic cigarettes could, among other things, lead to the problem of encouraging the return to the use of the normal cigarette. This, in my opinion, and according to the report of the Health Commission, could pose a significant problem for the health system and for the disincentive of smoking, with possible costs of all respect. Secondly, I have heard the protests more than vibrated over the increase of the advances for businesses and for individuals. It seems to me right here to reiterate - and certainly not to add to the provision - what has already been briefly pointed out in my report, namely that the taxpayer can still determine the advance which is supposedly incurred. For example, if Guy paid a tax of 1,000 euros in 2012, he should pay 1,000 euros as an advance for 2013. However, before 30 November, it can re-determine the taxable amount that it estimates to be able to make: if there has been a significant decrease in business, which will result in a tax of only 100 euros, this will be the amount of its down payment; if it even goes down, the taxpayer will have to pay nothing. Finally, I would like to thank not only all the speakers, but also and above all the members of the Commission, who did not only four for this measure, but even eight. Mr President, I have a request to make. I would ask you, please, to suspend the sitting in order to allow me and the co-rapporteur to evaluate the amendments tabled by the Government during the general discussion and to kindly set the deadline for submitting sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u25	Colleagues, considering the importance of the amendments tabled by the Government, the Presidency accepts the request of the rapporteur, Senator Sciascia, and, in accordance with Rule 100 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, suspends the examination of the draft law and sets the deadline for the possible submission of sub-amendments or amendments closely related to them at 1 p.m. today.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u28	DE PIETRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the late 1990s there has been a worrying decline in the populations of bees, bumblebees and other pollinating insects in all continents, with peaks of disconcerting severity of the phenomenon in Europe and North America. As is well known, bees play a key role in the life cycle, being the basis of the delicate pollination process of plants. In fact, in the absence of bees or in the case of their drastic numerical reduction, the production of food on a global scale would suffer a significant decline, with dramatic consequences, both for humans and for animals. The following data should be taken into account: up to 35% of global food production depends on the natural pollination service offered by these insects; of the 100 crops on which 90% of world food production depends, 71 are linked to the pollination work of bees; only in Europe, 4,000 different crops depend on entomophile pollination; about 1,84 percent of the 264 species cultivated in Europe are the result of natural pollination by bees, bombs, butterflies and moths; the global economic benefits linked to natural pollination amount to about 256 billion euros. The decline of bees is attributed to several factors, including the agricultural use of neonicotinoids, which constitute a class of new-designed systemic insecticides that has been rapidly diffused over the last 15 years. Studies such as the APENT project and the report published on 16 January 2013 by the European Food Safety Agency condemn the risks that neonicotinoid pesticides pose to bees and, in particular, determine the damage caused by three of these substances (clothianidin, imidacloprid and thiamethoxam). This confirms what beekeepers, citizens and associations have been denouncing for years. Many beekeepers testify that, once the use of these substances has been stopped, bees naturally start to repopulate the fields. Neonicotinoids, because of their high risk of neurotoxicity, as well as representing a threat to useful insects such as bees, could also represent a possible risk to the health of vertebrates, including humans. In recent years, the number of studies that see neonicotinoids as a potential source of subtle alterations also in vertebrates has increased, a risk that should be adequately evaluated with particular regard to neuroendocrine effects. The Higher Institute of Health in Rome already in 2009 stressed that the neuroendocrine effects of neonicotinoids in vertebrates deserve a more careful assessment in relation to the potential risks. Generally speaking, particularly vulnerable subjects such as children, pregnant women, subjects with endocrine-metabolic disorders, would be more exposed through the spread of these active substances in the environment, in the food supply chains and, therefore, also in the products of the hive. Finally, for adult subjects, the inhibiting action of neurotoxics on human reproductive capacity and male fertility is documented. Furthermore, the characterisation of the possible risks to human health associated with exposure to endocrine disruptors is currently defined as one of the new priorities for food and environmental safety by the Higher Institute of Health. That being said, it is clear that the attempt by multinational companies operating in the field of pesticides to attribute the decline of bees to a variety of specific pathological causes can be explained in the light of the intention to protect the enormous economic revenues resulting from the sale of such products, to the detriment of the survival of an animal species of immeasurable value for mankind. In particular, there are seven most dangerous pesticides: neonicotinoids and other substances whose patents are owned by chemical giants such as Bayer, Syngenta, BASF and others. In Italy, the Ministry of Health extended, by decree of 25 January 2013, until 30 June 2013, the suspension of the authorisation of the use of systemic tanning agents on maize. Although the prohibition in question immediately gave a relief to the bee population, the extension of this suspension has now expired and the problem is all the more serious. At European level, recent Regulation No 485 of 2013 establishes restrictions on the use of three neonicotinoids to limit their negative impact on bees. However, the relevant restrictions will only apply from 1 December 2013 and, in any case, the measure is transitional, covering a period of two years. In summary, the use of these insecticides is the only factor of total human responsibility on which legislative intervention can have direct and verifiable effects. It is necessary to act quickly in order to avoid that in the period of August-December 2013, in the absence of a specific ban on the use of such products, another severe blow to the national beekeeping heritage is being struck. Because of the gravity of the situation and the potential consequences, it is necessary to find a definitive solution to the problem, aiming to permanently prevent the use of products with the aforementioned chemical components in our country. To this end, I have submitted an urgent question to the Minister for Health and the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Policy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u31	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am unfortunately obliged to draw the attention of the House to denounce the Presidency and all of you - and I would ask you to listen - and above all to make it official with my speech in the Senate House yesterday in this branch of Parliament. As you all know, the Commissions 10a and 13a are gathered, also at this moment, to examine the bill of conversion of the decree-law on the ILVA of Taranto. The Committees had been convened yesterday afternoon - we met for the examination of the amendments - and the sitting was then suspended at 4 p.m., with a peremptory message of revocation as soon as the Budget Committee had given its opinion, as is the case. So much so that the Commissions met again shortly after 6.30 p.m. But what has happened is serious: the Government, in fact, has asked for the withdrawal of all the amendments proposed by us and by the single majority party. We believe that this is very serious because, ladies and gentlemen, we feel deprived of our legislative power, we feel delegitified in our functions as parliamentarians and, above all, we feel outraged as representatives of the citizens and representatives of this State. We wanted to bring this very important incident back to this House and we ask that you, Mr President, take a measure on this matter. Let us ask, for example, that, since we have not actually worked in these two weeks, all the members of Commissions 10a and 13a return the money they have not earned. Surely you will never give up, but we will not, for a fundamental reason: the trampled grass becomes a path. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u32	As there are no comments on the rapporteur's proposal, the examination of draft law No 890 will resume on Monday 29 July at 5 p.m. according to the current timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-78.ana.u33	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.04 a.m.
