ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Stucchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) on the government's initiatives to increase VAT, the IMU's rules and the implementation of the provisions on the payment of debts of public administrations, to which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Saccomanni, will respond. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. So let us turn to questions about the government's initiatives to increase VAT. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u6	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Minister, the date of 1 July 2013 is now approaching, which, in the absence of intervention, will set an increase in the VAT rate from 21% to 22%. Now, with regard to the decisions that the Government may or may not take, I would like to remind you that the most recent data show that the recession of the Italian economy in the first quarter of this year has been even more serious than expected in official documents. There is a favourable figure, however: there is a slowdown in recession. This means an opportunity, if we intervene in support, especially of domestic demand, which has been falling free for more than two years now, while, if this worsens, the slowdown could turn into a lasting stagnation. It is precisely in the light of this evidence that the increase in VAT from 21 to 22% represents a risk, because it could become an element of penalization of domestic demand and consumption, thus worsening the economic situation. Of course, we know that in order to avoid this risk the big problem is where to find the funds and, at the same time, it is very important to ask whether the government can and is assuming an intervention in this direction, aimed at avoiding such an increase or, in the alternative, the decision to postpone it for three or six months, which could ensure time both to find the resources and to have a more complete picture of all financial needs, also taking into account the reform of the IMU which, as we know, is developing in parallel. According to calculations that have been made, precisely the reform of the IMU [[. (The microphone switches off automatically.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u7	Thank you, Senator Warriors Paleotti. Live television imposes strict respect for the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u10	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, we would like to know whether the Minister shares the view that the progressive increase in VAT can have a negative effect, as well as on the country's economy, on the same revenue and therefore has a double negative effect, given the fact that it would mean a contraction in consumption, and therefore if he does not feel that he should have to go ahead with the increase scheduled for 1 July. In view of this, we would like to know whether the Ministry of Economy has developed the idea of having to change its assessment of the calculation of the financial effects on the State's budget of new excessively burdensome tax rules, in the sense that any further increase in taxation can only result in a decrease in the same revenue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u13	PEPE (M5S). Mr President, the VAT rate has been increased eight times over the decades; it has just recently risen from 20% to 21%, a record which may be set to increase in a few days' time. The rate last increased two years ago in 2011: the measure was part of the package introduced in order to cope with the growing economic crisis. Despite this increase, revenues between mid-September 2011 and December 2012 decreased by EUR 3.5 billion and had the opposite effect to what was hoped for. From the beginning of the crisis to the end of 2012 national GDP decreased by 7 percentage points and household expenditure by 5. How successful it is to serve as a warning. This five-point fall corresponds, in absolute terms, to an average decrease in expenditure of around 3,700 euros per household. If the expected increase is not avoided, there is a risk that demand will still be penalised and the economic situation will deteriorate: that of households, that of small and medium-sized enterprises and that of self-employed workers, who live almost exclusively on domestic consumption. The gravity of the situation was also highlighted by the Bank of Italy. In the annual report, the National Street Institute points out that in terms of per capita expenditure has returned to the 1998 values, that of fourteen years ago, fourteen years lost. If the expected increase becomes effective, if VAT is still increased, Italians will be subject to the highest ordinary VAT rate among all the main countries of the euro area. I remember that between the increase of one percentage point of the VAT, the increase of the TARES and that of the IMU on the sheds, is estimated a stagata of 9,4 billion euros more in 2013 than in 2012; a stagata that will weigh on the enterprises and above all on the families. The question I ask the Government is whether it intends to respect what President Letta promised in his address to the Houses, that is not to increase VAT from 21 to 22%, and indeed, given the effects that the previous increase has brought, I ask whether it is not appropriate to bring this tax back to 20%.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u16	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, Minister, of course, we all agree that all taxes should be lowered in order to support growth and relaunch the economy, but the path is narrow, and so we need to be selective and make choices. The question is, therefore, as follows: I would like to know what the Minister's view is on the priority nature of this measure, namely the blocking of the increase in a VAT point, compared to the primary objective of supporting businesses and detaxing work. I would also like to ask whether any intervention to stop this increase is foreshadowed as the previous one, by reducing expenditure and not increasing other revenue, as had been suggested by some in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u19	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, as the Minister can see, it is a choir: center-right and center-left make the same reasoning. The action imposed by the Monti Government was all aimed at extreme rigour, but, in the light of the facts, we can call it excessive. This has led to an overall worsening of the entire Italian economy, a recessive phase clearly visible from a downward trend of growth caused mainly by the reduction of disposable income of households and, consequently, by a contraction in consumption. The expected increase in VAT from July would lead to a further deterioration in the purchasing power of Italian households and a further deterioration in the already weak domestic demand, so as to also lead to a fall in revenue, despite the increase in the levy rate. The calls to avoid this increase are no longer counted, but deserve to be remembered at least those of the last two days of Confartigianato, Confindustria and Confcommercio, where the homonym of our colleague Sangalli compared the increase of VAT to the action of those who pour gasoline on the fire. Therefore, Minister, even in order to sterilize the anticipated increase in VAT, we ask you what measures you intend to take and where you will possibly find the necessary financial cover, which we - as we say from now on - hope will not be penalised for the productive sectors, otherwise the operation would result in a zero balance sum.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u22	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, kind Minister, the Stability Act of 2013 has intervened on the VAT discipline of social benefits to disadvantaged persons rendered by cooperatives and their consortia, increasing the rate from 4% to 10% for contracts from 1 January 2014. In the Government's report, the increase is justified with fear of an infringement procedure by the European Commission and therefore the Government, as a precautionary measure, proposes the immediate abolition of the preferential tariff. The Commission has, in fact, simply raised the question and it is entirely up to us to see whether the procedure will go on, and in any case this will not happen quickly. Given the social, but also economic importance, for the approximately 12,000 social cooperatives, which, moreover, employ some 380,000 people and whose network of services reaches about 6 million citizens, and considering that the impact of the rate will have an impact on the local authorities and institutions that provide services (but for a share of the families that benefit from it), I ask you whether you do not consider it appropriate to restore the previous rate, also in view of the fact that this year the European Union will give rise to a comprehensive restructuring of the VAT system and therefore it will be necessary for our country to adapt accordingly: therefore there will be opportunities to review the matter and adapt to the new VAT regime.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u25	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Minister, the increase in VAT is a decision that the current Government finds itself as assumed by the previous Government and that it can avoid, postpone or implement; however, it is necessary to identify alternative resources or, in any case, the destination of the taxes collected. However, the problem I am asking myself is another one: not the one relating to the decision to be taken in the near future and which is the responsibility of the Government and ours in relation to the production initiative, but the problem relating to the fiscal policy that the Government wants to propose. Does the Government consider it necessary to proceed by requesting the approval of the tax delegation as it had been designed, designed and proposed by the previous Executive or does it intend to amend it? Remembering Colbert who claimed that the most enduring activity on the part of a minister is to pluck the goose without making her feel pain, since there are no more goose feathers, what must the government do at this point in the matter, by its proposal, initiative, thought, meditation? Based on your past experience in Banca d'Italia, what is the best fiscal policy for Italy in the near future?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u28	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, we are pleased that everyone today supports the idea of suspending or removing the possibility of an increase in VAT by one percentage point. However, we approved - indeed, you approved - not later than a few weeks ago, the Monti Government's Economic and Financial Document: there are defined the balances, as well as the ways to obtain financial resources in relation to the issues to be addressed. So do you not think that the increase in VAT should be removed and, therefore, should it be corrected in this direction - as we expected - the Economic and Financial Document? In any case, do you not think that a selection should be made of the products to be subject to an increase in VAT so as to defend national productions and thus support demand for Italian productivity and employment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Saccomanni.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the very detailed questions. I would, however, like to make a general point before responding to them as far as possible. Compared to a few weeks ago, the situation in which we are dealing with economic and fiscal policy shows signs that are not exactly encouraging. As has already been mentioned, the figures for the first quarter of the year show a worse picture: this means not only a serious decline, but obviously also has negative effects on tax revenue, in particular VAT, which is the instrument that can allow faster monitoring than other forms of taxation. Another important factor is the fact that, unfortunately, in recent weeks, for reasons totally unrelated to the Italian economic situation, tensions have been reproduced on the financial markets; they are mainly tensions of American and Japanese origin that concern the meaning and intensity of monetary policy that these countries have in mind to undertake. This has a strong impact on the markets, which expect interest rates to rise. This is causing a number of compensatory operations by intermediaries, which are also selling bonds issued by various emerging countries, and of course by European countries, with a negative effect on prices. A third factor that I cannot forget is the fact that the excessive deficit procedure, even though it is being overcome thanks to the favourable position adopted by the Commission on 29 May, is not yet concluded: a decision by the Ecofin Council, to be adopted at the next meeting, and then a final decision by the European Council, in July. All this explains the reason why the Government is moving very carefully in the formulation and development of fiscal policy measures. The Government - I can confirm this, and it has been remembered several times - is working on all the issues that are part of the programmatic engagements assumed regarding the reduction of the fiscal pressure, both on the consumptions and on the real estate, in particular regarding the IMU. In the light of these developments, a global quantification of funding needs is under way to meet the policy objectives. Clearly, the finding of cover that does not affect the commitment made at European level essentially involves the introduction of cuts in expenditure and, in some cases, adjustments to taxation. I repeat, we are studying every possible solution. This is the framework in which we move with regard to VAT in particular. Of course, we are fully aware of the negative effects that an increase of this may cause at this time, even if finding alternative cover may not be less burdensome; it is therefore a question of assessing the alternatives. I can confirm that among the alternatives that are being studied there is essentially a whole range of possibilities, including the elimination of an increase point, which implies the need to find an additional funding of EUR 2 billion and will then involve the need to find a financing of EUR 4 billion for each of the following years. VAT plays a key role in the construction of measures that have allowed Italy to exit the excessive deficit procedure. It is also under consideration the possibility of reducing it by three months or to postpone it for a period of time that allows, as Senator Guerrieri Paleotti claimed, to look with a little 'clearer to the evolution of the economic situation that, after this phase of uncertainty, could show some signal of improvement, since all the institutes of analysis continue to project a resumption of economic activity towards the second part of the year. It is clear that the impact of the tax rate on tax revenues must be seen in a broader context. Certainly, ceteris paribus, an increase in the rate can depress consumption, but it also depends on the general situation of the economy. We have indeed found ourselves in a negative situation, which has remained more severe than expected, but we do not think that there is necessarily a causal relationship between rate and revenue trends one by one: these are macroeconomic factors which have a more general influence on this point. We are all very clear about the public positions of important segments of the economy and - I repeat - the commitment to avoid unnecessary or worse harmful tax increases is certainly for the Government's utmost attention. Let me now turn to a few more specific aspects. For example, with regard to the point raised by Senator Panizza, unfortunately I do not believe that a Community directive is possible to restore a rate that had been reduced in connection with the taxation of benefits to disadvantaged persons. Finally, I would like to stress that for the next few months we are looking at the tax policy as a whole. This is how I respond, in particular, to Senator Ferrara's question, pointing out that - as we have pointed out several times - the objective is to reduce taxation on labour and businesses by retrieving sources of finance essentially through a structural revision of expenditure mechanisms and attacking the chapter of tax benefits. Theoretically, these are a fairly broad source of possible funding, but they require specific measures to remove the original causes of the legislative measure from which each of these facilities or subsidies originates: that is, they are not matters decided at administrative level. I realize that, as Senator Lanzillotta pointed out, the path is narrow. In addition, we are quite clear that the scope of this path tends to decline a little, even as a result of cyclical developments; however, the objective remains to act on the front of spending cuts. Mr President, I think I have exhausted my speech on this issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u32	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Thanks to Mr Saccomanni for the clarification he has given us, I would like to make two very brief comments. The problem in the last two years is that the increase in VAT has always given much less than it promised because the fall in domestic demand and production activity burned those revenues. As far as the postponement is concerned, I think it is very important to have the overall picture, because the resources are scarce and need to be optimised.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u35	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr Minister, what you have said confirms us, as a People of Freedom, in the absolute determination to ensure that this increase in VAT does not take place. In fact, we would have an absolutely negative effect on the revenue, and so the figure that has been billed in order to rebalance the state budget would be doubly negative at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u38	PEPE (M5S). We note that, in fact, the Government wants to increase the VAT rate and therefore we declare ourselves dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u41	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Minister, we note the concern about the worsening economic and financial situation and the consequent caution against Europe as well. It is therefore not appropriate to accredit the idea that the crisis is behind us or - worse still - that we can go back to having no financial concerns, spending or making tax reductions. It is precisely for this reason that the invitation is once again, Minister, to take measures which do not give way to propaganda, but which are consistent with the need to counter the negative development of the economic cycle.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u44	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, we are not very satisfied, because we perceive little determination on the part of the Government on this subject which should instead be a bob trail, that is an obligatory path. I remind you that the Senate, in the last legislature, seeing the fall in average consumption of families, has set up its own machine, a Commission, to monitor its own prices, tariffs and abnormal increases, in order to prevent the ever-increasing compression of purchasing power from having an impact on a decline in domestic demand. You're an economist, so we don't have to explain to economists what Laffer's curve is. However, we have overcome its critical point: while we believe that we are increasing revenue by increasing the tax burden, we risk, by doing so, reducing overall revenue. If - as studies say - the increase will be 140 euros per family, families that do not have a propensity to save will need all the income in order to live.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u47	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, Minister, I am pleased, also for the implicit consideration you have made, Minister, with the confidentiality that is congenial to you, also because of your origin, that VAT was thought of at a time when it was necessary to bring the tax burden from direct to indirect; Today, on the contrary, all this ends up being a contradiction, because the need is to act in an anti-cyclical way, i.e. not to take what is not there.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u50	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, the concern remains. In fact, we believe that the system of delays does not calm down, but rather creates fears. Suspension in itself is not a solution. It would be better not to activate the increase and intervene instead with an overall project, that guarantees our productions, supports the domestic demand for Italian production, in order to support also the employment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u53	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I am not very satisfied with the Minister's reply, because I believe that we Italians are increasingly realistic about the king. In fact, it responds to the truth that the Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs Union of the European Commission has raised, with the EU-Pilot system, the question of the compatibility with Community law of the reduced VAT system, but it is equally true that this is a purely cognitive procedure, as well as a very long procedure, which is not said to produce infringement procedures. It also intervenes at the same time as a further and much more important European path to the modification of VAT systems, initiated with the Commission's communication: On the future of VAT. Towards a simpler, more robust and more efficient VAT system adapted to the single market of 6 December 2011. So, Minister, I would really urge you to reconsider this position, because I think it is a caution at this very excessive time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u54	Let us now turn to questions concerning the discipline of the IMU, which will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Saccomanni. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u57	SANTINI (PD). Minister, following the postponement of the payment of the first instalment of the IMU, the Decree-Law now provides for a comprehensive reform of the taxation of property, including the regulation of the municipal tax on waste and taxes on services. The Government has repeatedly stated its objective of tax reduction without producing further debt. I ask you, therefore, how the Government intends to operate for a remodulation of the IMU on the first house in the sign of equity, providing in particular an exemption for the less well-off families and for the less valuable establishments used as the first home. I would also ask you whether the Government envisages, as we believe necessary, a reduction of the IMU on buildings for strictly productive use, in the sense of supporting, for development purposes, domestic demand on the one hand, by not further compressing the lowest incomes, and, on the other hand, production. I would also ask you, in the matter of reordering, whether the Government intends to combine the tax on waste and services into a single municipal tax, whether it intends to introduce greater progressive taxation on property and, finally, how it intends to speed up the revision of the land register, an essential instrument for the proper application of the IMU.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u60	D'ALI' (PdL). Minister, the implementing decrees of the end of 2011 relating to the IMU have distinguished between first and second homes and have been assumed as an obligation for the municipalities to realize a certain revenue. Those two compartments were kept separate, and therefore some municipalities that did not reach the proceeds with the IMU on the first house had to integrate with own resources, while others that exceeded the revenues on the second house were not allowed to compensate. I would like to know whether this statement is correct and how the Government intends to remedy this serious prevarication against the municipalities. Secondly, I would like to know whether the 2012 IMU has not determined for the State a revenue higher than forecast. In this case, I would like to know what has been the destination of this revenue and if it is not taken into account also for the reform of the tax that the Government is preparing. Finally, the TARES, with an increase of EUR 0.30 per square metre, is for us an additional IMU that must be avoided. We would like to know if the Government is in the same order of ideas, because TARES is a tariff that should all be within the municipalities and being tariff goes to compensation of the services and therefore cannot become a new asset.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u63	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Minister, the IMU, initially introduced for the two-year period 2013-2015, is not yet known whether it will become a permanent tax. Now the word has passed to you, to the Letta Government, which suspended the first instalment of June on the buildings used for the main dwelling, on the land, on the agricultural buildings, on the buildings of the housing cooperatives and the IACP popular houses. In fact, this government has administered a temporary anesthesia to the Italian people, because in the meantime it is not yet clear whether it will go ahead with anaesthetics or we really set ourselves the objective of a comprehensive reform of the matter. Until now the Government has limited itself to the formulation of several hypotheses: reimbursement of the IMU, elimination, remodulation, an overall reform with the introduction of a service tax. The switch to the service tax model, which also includes TARES in its perimeter, for M5S would result in the transfer of part of the levy from owners to tenants, with unwanted redistributive effects and, for the waste component, would be incompatible with the Community principle of polluter pays. What is asked of the Government is whether it is not necessary to change logic, to understand that today the tax pressure in Italy is unsustainable, that the increases, both of direct and indirect taxation, are producing a distortion of revenue. I would remind you that the IMU, for small and medium-sized enterprises, has been a threefold increase in the tax burden. What is being asked is an act of courage, an overall tax reform that involves a reduction of the tax burden by 4-5 percentage points, an overall revision of public expenditure, an intervention on the amount of public debt, a serious fight against tax evasion, leaving the instruments of bureaucratic contrast as the income meter and sector studies stand. Since one cannot understand the direction in which the Government intends to move, if there is a shared line in determining the fate of the IMU, one wonders whether it is to be abolished, remodelled or reformed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u66	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Minister, the data provided today by ASSONIME, already indicated by Banca d'Italia in recent days, confirm that in Italy the tax burden on real estate is among the lowest in Europe and also in the western world and that, therefore, the abolition of the IMU from some request is a luxury that we cannot afford and would also be an inefficient measure. I would ask you to know if the Government is simply thinking of an accentuation of the already considerable progressiveness that the tax has and to focus the possible intervention on the properties used for business activities that also distort the taxation on the factors of production.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u69	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Minister, the financial situation of the municipalities has been particularly aggravated since 2011 because of the heavy cuts in resources made through the reduction of the Experimental Rebalancing Fund. Precisely to compensate for these deficits, many administrations have had to resort to the increase of local taxes, starting with the IMU introduced by the Monti Government, raising the rates compared to those base, already in itself cause more than a doubling of the costs incurred by families and economic activities. The current Government has recently ordered the suspension of the payment of the first instalment on the main dwellings, the revenue of which is allocated to the municipalities, reserving to intervene shortly on the tax complex in order to establish in a clearer way the regulatory framework of reference. The suspension of the IMU, combined with the strong criticalities introduced by TARES and the continuing absurd constraints of the Stability Pact, worsens the already uncertain and unstable regulatory framework, increasing the difficulties of the mayors. The lower resources for the municipalities, also because of the above-mentioned suspension, will certainly have a major impact on the financial balances of the institutions, which may be forced to increase the local taxes further, i.e. to reduce the level of current expenditure, and therefore the services. Therefore, Minister, we ask you to know whether you do not consider urgent action to redefine in a comprehensive and organic way the regulatory framework of local taxation, specifically providing for a comprehensive review of the IMU able to alleviate the tax burden of families, in relation to the main house; lighten the tax burden of the economic activities for which the shed, the workshop, the shop must be considered an instrumental asset not burdened by the levy; guarantee to the municipalities the same revenue collected in previous years and, at the same time, confer greater financial autonomy so as to make the local administrators more responsible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u72	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr Minister, the question I put to you concerns rental contracts with a reduced or agreed rent. As you know, these contracts are the only existing means of curbing the market for the weakest tenants and are an essential opportunity for tenants who intend to rent on facilitated terms. In recent years, in fact, the canons agreed had allowed to give a home to many Italians not well-off: we talk about almost 220,000 rents and almost 6 percent of the total (about one million Italians). When the ICI scheme was in force, a reduced rate of 4 per thousand was envisaged. Moreover, the introduction of these contracts was also dependent on the tax advantages they had. With the introduction of the IMU - I take the example of the Municipality of Trento, we are talking about 7.83 per thousand undifferentiated - these instruments have been put in real danger, and therefore we risk to frustrate this great resource. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to reinstate the reduced rate of 4 per thousand for such contracts. The second question I put to you concerns the exemption from the payment of the IMU for the instrumental buildings of companies, an argument that has already been addressed by those who preceded me, in particular Senator Santini. We share the fact that this is a hidden tax on labour, in that it is taxing a real tool of work; I therefore hope that this new Government will de facto exempt such property, also with a view to the will, the efforts, the policies that are taking place to free up our productive fabric and relaunch the economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u75	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I do not agree very much with the difference between the VAT side and the IMU part of the question time because, as far as I am concerned, the subject is always the same: the coordination of taxes and therefore the fiscal policy of the Government. Let us take the coordination between the TARES and the IMU, two tributes that should however go to finance the activities of the Municipalities: the part of the TARES can be coordinated with that of the IMU and the suspension of the IMU must affect the total resources that are lacking to the Municipalities. At this point I would like to point out my curiosity about this, namely whether the Government, with its authority and the broad majority supporting it, intends to ask for an interlocation with the ANCI to see if, at least this time, the municipalities intend to take charge of a part of the cuts that their sometimes very expensive activities have not allowed to carry out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u78	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, we believe that local authorities have already been affected enough by the austerity policies put in place by the previous government and continued by the current government. We believe that the policy of postponing matters relating to the reform of the property tax system is very worrying. We believe that the postponement already planned by TARES complicates the situation even more. We are concerned that the Christmas of Italians can be disastrous, that is to say that we arrive at the date of the Christmas festivities with the bag of Santa Claus organized with taxes that we have not paid in the course of the year, with the referrals to be carried out at the end of the year, that is, when the Italians take the thirteenth, at least the employees, who are the ones that more than others participate with the tax contributions to public finance. That is why, Minister, we would like to understand how the Government intends to proceed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Saccomanni.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u79	Mr President, I do not think I should repeat the macroeconomic assumptions I have already mentioned, but they also apply to this important area of taxation. On this point I would like to point out that in the decree by which the postponement of the planned IMU instalment was approved, it was clearly indicated the path that the Government intended to carry out, giving itself as a final date to complete a very wide and very detailed reform, perhaps already in the text of the decree itself, on 31 August. The government intends to meet this deadline. I repeat: we are also analysing all possible alternatives here, with the aim of taking account of the needs that have been expressed by all political forces to a greater or lesser extent and which have drawn attention to the need for action in this sensitive area. What we have taken has indeed been measures for postponement, but for postponement which have been meditated on the recognition of the complexity of the matter; therefore, in the review exercise that we are doing, we must certainly take into account the indications that have also emerged on this occasion here in the Senate. It is clear that, as we have committed ourselves, this reorder will concern not only the IMU, but also the TARES. It is also clear that, as we have always pointed out in the decree, there is attention to the situation of companies and to the taxation of industrial sheds, as indicated, with a measure that, at least with regard to the consultation possibilities we had at the Ministry of Economy, seemed to meet the needs of the enterprises almost even better than the exemption from the IMU. Therefore, the possibility to deduct the payment of the IMU from corporate income is one of the options that we are carefully considering. We are aware that the measures taken can be regarded as a temporary anaesthetic, but this does not mean that there is no redesign and restructuring of this tax. Therefore, the observation that TARES is characterized as an additional IMU and therefore needs to be examined in that context is an important factor. I would like to clarify one point with regard to the proceeds of the IMU, since it has been asked whether or not there has been an extrajective. I can report here that, on the basis of very recent data (14 March 2013), the total revenue deriving from the IMU was 23 billion and 792 million, of which 20 billion and 329 million related to the IMU calculated on the base rate, the one planned by the offices of the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the available data, not knowing what the effective rate adopted by the individual municipalities would have been. As a result of the separate municipal maneuvers, there was a further revenue of 3 billion and 462 million. This is the total revenue from this tax item. It is absolutely true, therefore, that IMU's revenue was higher than expected. It was one of the cornerstones of public finance that allowed us to get out of the excessive deficit procedure. Moreover, the extratragettito - if it can be defined as such, since the difference is given by the amount calculated ex ante not knowing what would have been the measure of maneuvers at the municipal level - has certainly merged into the general revenues of the State and has made an important contribution in support of the total revenue in a year in which the income has been reduced by 2.4%, as unfortunately has been certified. This is an important point that I would like to make clear, because it shows that this type of tax has allowed to absorb the repercussions of an acceleration of the recession. I would add that in the work of reordering and reviewing this type of taxation we will certainly take into account the need to guarantee to the municipalities an imposing autonomy, constitutionally guaranteed, providing that it translates into an effective autonomy of entry. It is a factor that we will have to keep in mind in the perspective of reordering. Everyone stressed the need to reduce taxation on certain assets. We have taken full account of what Senator Lanzillotta said about the opportunity to compare taxation on the house internationally. The Government intends to examine these problems in full cooperation with Parliament and the parliamentary committees. In that context, taking into account funding needs, appropriate priorities should be established, taking into account the relative impacts of certain fiscal policy instruments. Our commitment, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, will be to provide Parliament with all the parameters to be able to make a reasoned decision on the priorities. It is clear that this is also a tax which, if it were to be definitively eliminated, would entail a financing burden of EUR 4 billion per year, which, if it is added to the EUR 4 billion mentioned earlier with regard to VAT, suggests the need for compensatory measures of a very severe nature, which at present cannot be found. We are well aware of the point made by Senator Uras. Certainly we do not want to push all the referrals towards the end of the year. If possible, we would like to complete this review - it is my personal hope - well before the end of August, so that we can give the most clarity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, please conclude. Mr SACCOMANNI, Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Mr President, thank you, but I was still done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u80	Minister, thank you for your speech. I am particularly pleased with the commitment to keeping the time, which we consider to be a very important fact in order to give certainty. As well as I am satisfied with the answer on deductibility for industrial type sheds and also on TARES. As regards the priorities to be taken into account in the reform, you rightly say that you intend to agree with Parliament. We, as the Democratic Party, stress that our priority is the poorest families, so we also want to support the incomes of the most disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u83	D'ALI' (PdL). Minister, thank you for the information you have given us on the IMU's 2012 revenue, which is comforting us that the government has room for manoeuvre. In fact, I would be very concerned if the increased revenue were to be spent on the general collection of public accounts under the scheme. This is an increase in revenue from a sector and the tax on it needs to be restructured. In particular, I note that the increase of 30 cents per square metre in the TARES shares one billion in the evaluation of the Ministry of Economy, thus below a third of the greater revenues of the IMU. There's something to work with.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u86	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, first of all we note the optimism of the Minister, who expects us to be able to deduce the IMU of corporate income, when we know that this is now almost zero. With regard then to the resources to be recovered to abolish the IMU in its entirety, we would like to draw attention to tax evasion: instead of humiliating citizens and businesses working in transparency, we would prefer that this evasion be finally recovered from those who generate it in its most substantial part, that is - as you will surely know - crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u89	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I am pleased that the Minister's answer has been analytical and indicates the problematic nature of overall fiscal policy intervention. As far as TARES is concerned, I recommend a reflection on the fact that moving from the tariff to the tax weakens the logic of the tariff, that is to link the payment to the efficiency and the actual cost of the services, and therefore to give transparency to the modalities of management of the local services.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u92	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Minister, the North League is partially satisfied. There are commitments - including the reform of the TARES, which is in line with an agenda presented by the North League - but there is no certainty. So, we would not want to see another further decline in GDP at the end of August, which would affect these good intentions. We take note of the attention of all Groups on the relief of the tax burden on households and we trust that this relief will also apply to economic activities. Above all, we call for this reform not to be serious about the already critical budget of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u95	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Minister, we have appreciated your openness and your willingness, which this Government is demonstrating every day, even by sharing your proposals with the Senate and with Parliament in general. I take note, in particular, of the willingness to consider the IMU on instrumental buildings or sheds, which I would like to say. On the second subject that I submitted to you I did not have a precise answer and I would ask you to consider that there are pockets of need in our country. I am referring to the fees agreed or facilitated, which affect categories that actually need them. Perhaps, indeed, when we have to tax we will have to think about high incomes, gold pensions and higher assets, trying to recover taxation where there is actually the possibility of paying it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u98	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Minister, I am also pleased with the legal basis of your speech, namely the need to better combine power and responsibility, in the sense that where there is power, that is, the municipalities, there is also a responsibility to see how this power should be exercised, and where power, I am referring to the Government, must be exercised, there can be resources to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u101	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, I am partially satisfied. I see that the concern about the size of the issues to be addressed, also from the point of view of the amount of resources to be found, is very authoritatively present in your person. Well, we wonder whether something different should not be agreed with the European Union, because otherwise it will be difficult to exercise areas of manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u102	Let us now turn to questions concerning the implementation of the provisions on the payment of public debt, which will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Saccomanni. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u105	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, Minister, the bill on the payment of debts is certainly one of the most important economic policy manoeuvres that have been put in place and which is absolutely necessary. I therefore ask you three questions, which relate to the progress of this payment. The first concerns verification of the timing and modalities, according to the criteria identified by the legislation which has been approved by Parliament, which has its own complexity and which we believe to be absolutely essential for monitoring. The second question concerns the verification that no further debts are arising - as I say in relation to the European 30-day and 60-day payments directive - and that, therefore, we proceed in public administrations in a way that does not reconstruct the debt stock that we are trying so hard to break down with this important measure. Finally, the Government is in a position to dispose of the total debt stock. In fact, the measure that we voted in Parliament allows the possibility to activate financial intermediaries (also the Deposit and Loan Fund), enjoying the guarantees of last resort of the State, novelty that has been introduced precisely from the examination of the provision to the Senate. I wonder whether, by virtue of this possibility, we can think of attacking the debt complex that has been generated over the years and that represents the debt stock of public administrations to companies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u108	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, I am speaking on the same questions, roughly. Minister, now the Decree-Law No 35 of 2013 is largely operational: what was the survey that emerged following the first mechanism of the Decree-Law, which started immediately after its approval, regarding the debt stock? What is your final forecast of all public administration debts vis-à-vis companies, suppliers and professionals at 31 December 2012? We would also like to know if she does not feel that she immediately takes the rule mentioned by Senator Sangalli, introduced in the Senate, on the possibility of granting state guarantees on financial intermediaries to complete the maneuver in relation to payments, and if therefore today she can not tell us whether in 2014 the entire debt at 31 December 2012 can be fully paid. Finally, I would like to ask what you intend to propose because public administration does not mature new debts beyond 60 days, which should be prevented (or at least not provided for) by the Community directive on the development of payments of public debt. This is recognised as being in the absolute interest of our economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u111	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr Minister, the problem of the lack of public administration payments, especially to businesses, is really serious because it involves people and sometimes makes the difference between life and death, but also because it is practically a declaration of inconsistency in the soundness of the state's accounts and it is proof that this system cannot be trusted any more. Since, however, here in the Senate, it has been stated that the entire debt stock will be paid in 2014, which I remember amounts to 140 billion if we understand companies with less than 20 employees, who are dying day after day, I ask you and the Government what urgent measures you intend to implement to pay all the debts by 2014, considering also the opening of the European Union. We are also asking whether access to the funds provided for all equally is guaranteed. We ask you to hurry because there really is no more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u114	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Minister, Article 5-bis, to which my colleagues Sangalli and D'Alì have already referred, introduced by the Senate also on our initiative together with other Groups, of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 35 of 2013, adopted at the time by the Monti Government for the payment of debts of the public administration, now allows the Government to proceed as early as 2013 and in the first months of 2014 to the full payment of all current debts, as their liquidation would not affect net debt. A total of around €85 billion would be put into the economy. Today, this seems to be the only real economic policy manoeuvre to support growth: to bring liquidity into the system, to reactivate the credit circuit to the company, to save companies that are dying due to the lack of liquidity. I would therefore like to ask what is the point of certification and how, when and to what extent the Government - and in particular the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance - intends to carry out the operation provided for in Article 5a.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u117	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, over the past few days we have all participated in the approval of the so-called decree unlocks payments, an important measure which, however, the League has declared its not total satisfaction precisely because it does not allow to pay totally the stock of debt, of which there is not even complete certainty. It is therefore necessary for the Government to take more effective action in making available the necessary resources so that, as has just been mentioned, the one provided for in the above provision can be a serious maneuver able to reactivate the economy. We know very well that the credibility of the public administration passes through the regulation of debts: it cannot be a serious administration that contracts debts and then does not pay its suppliers. We have made available resources to be able to remain in the European Stability Pact, but certainly also to give resources to the municipalities to pay their debts. In this case - and we ask that the Government give us certainty - a remodulation of the European Stability Pact; we must be aware that the municipal authorities have contracted debts, that money has accumulated, these debts must be paid, but certainly Italy must also be able to discuss again with Europe, through strong government action, so that that 3% ratio between deficit and GDP that has been respected this year does not become a further noose next year. We therefore ask the Government to know what resources it intends to make available so that the entire debt stock of public administrations can be paid and of course what actions it intends to put in place to ensure that Europe is properly aware. We believe that these actions should be part of a loosening of the Stability Pact which, as it is built, we have seen serve nothing but to feed finance, but certainly not the economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u120	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I am not repeating what my fellow Members have already said on this subject, which is very topical, not least because the damage done to businesses, especially small ones, is incalculable. I do not hide that we have also felt a certain shame in approving the last provisions: in fact, there should be no need for a law for public administration to honor its debts. But that's it. I ask you, therefore, first of all what actions this Government intends to take in order to prevent this strange Italian habit from being maintained and to ensure that at last public administrations, when they make commitments, are aware that they must be honored and then we are actually able to do so. Secondly, with reference also to the request from the last assembly of Confartigianato by the mouth of its president, I ask you whether you consider that the proposal to allow companies to apply for universal compensation of their commercial claims to the public administration with the State's due in terms of taxes and contributions is viable. To me personally this seems an act of civilization as well as of justice that could solve many problems related to payments. I repeat, I believe that, compared to the strange habit of delaying payments, if not even blowing them up, this could really be an act of justice that businesses, and not just them, expect.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u123	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, the decree-law laying down urgent provisions for the payment of debts due by the public administration has been converted, and we were very happy about that, partly because, in fact, it was possible to implement the measure with a debt cover. In the decision taken, however, we were also encouraged by the judgments made at European level. However, there is one particular aspect that is still unclear to me, partly because we know that most of these debts have been contracted by the regions against third parties in the health sector. For this type of debt 14 billion have already been allocated: 5 already allocated and 9 to be allocated by next November. We also know that part of the money that the regions had received has been used to cover other expenses and that, therefore, in making transfers you will have to consider the resources already transferred. The local authorities will then have to take account of this, because in order to be able to pay the debts that would fall into that particular case they will then have to request a further breakdown. How do you coordinate all this? Will there be outstanding debts, unfortunately?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u126	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, the Mixed-SEL Group, at the time of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 35 into the Senate, expressed itself with a vote of abstention because it has concerns not so much about the objective of the measure (which is all to be pursued, indeed to be integrated, if we think of how many debts 40 billion cannot satisfy) but above all about procedures: today we see a transfer of resources, an endowment of availability to territorial authorities, but the next step is to understand how these territorial authorities place these resources in the availability of the business system. This step needs systematic monitoring so that we can immediately understand where the measure does not work, so that we can act promptly and promptly. So, I would like to know, Minister, if this monitoring is in place, what the Government intends to do about it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Saccomanni.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u127	Mr President, here too the questions put are very interesting. Personally, I share the opinion of Senator Lanzillotta: in fact, this maneuver of 40 billion is a megamaneuver and therefore sometimes I am a bit ill at seeing how it has already been forgotten on the pages of the newspapers and how we always think of the daily increase that can be achieved. I believe that this is a very strong maneuver, which unfortunately has not often been counted in the estimates that the economic analysis and forecasting bodies make, because unfortunately in Italy there is always doubt as to when these payments will be made. So it's too early for a cold economist to compute them into predictions. In fact, I think it is important to stress that this decree-law has been converted very quickly by Parliament, it is effective and we are already implementing the payment mechanism. For local authorities €6.8 billion; for the Regions and autonomous provinces € 10 billion; for the debt payments of the Ministries have already been paid € 500 million; € 2.5 billion is for the increase of tax refunds. This means a figure of 20 billion for the remaining six months of 2013. There has been talk of the need to monitor. I believe that we are committed to monitoring closely, especially to ensuring that refunds are made to the administrations which must receive them and then to the creditors who have been waiting for so long. Unfortunately, it is not always true that the reasons for credit are incontrovertible: in some of these cases, therefore, some further verification is necessary. As far as the amounts are concerned, unfortunately there is no actual calculation of the amount of the debt of the general government. The number provided in Parliament by the Bank of Italy, when I was still working there, is based, as we explained very clearly, on estimates from opinion polls on the creditors' side. It was not possible to do a verification, which is now in progress. The amount indicated (80‐90 billion) was estimated; in addition it included a not negligible part of what should be considered the physiological debt. If you take the picture of the debt to date, in that total amount there are debts that expire in 30 days and that therefore do not have to be paid today. If we remove a precautionary amount - but, I repeat, we will be able to estimate it once we have completed the monitoring - probably the amount, over 40 billion already allocated, should be of the order of 20-30 billion. I repeat that these are estimates, but they are not due to the inadequacy of the means of monitoring, which we are refining. There is a platform that is functioning to which a very high number of reports have arrived, but it is important to get an idea of the so-called physiological part of this debt. For our part, there is a commitment to do as quickly as possible and to do as much as possible. Many senators have asked what happens to this residual debt. I would like to clarify two things. Firstly, it is clear that the accelerated payment of this debt is certainly an objective that the Government also shares. However, as has already been the case with the part whose repayment is currently in place, there is a share which concerns capital expenditure which, in any case, is burdened by net debt. In the case of 2013, we will repay 20 billion debts with this measure, but 0.5% of GDP weighs on net debt, which in fact has risen from 2.4 to 2.9 percent. Therefore, for the future too, we will have to discuss with the European Commission the effective extent of the margin that we will have below 3%; especially when we have completed the first phase of monitoring (which should take place by 15 September), we will be able, in conjunction with the Stability Act, to formulate a forecast on the additional amount of debt that can already be paid in advance from 2013. So, that's the goal we set ourselves. Of course, we are well aware of the objective of attacking the debt stock in general, but here the chapter on privatisation or the exploitation of public assets opens up, which goes beyond the subject we are talking about. Turning now to a more technical aspect, I believe that there are problems for the tax administration to adopt a mechanism for the universal compensation of debts and claims to the public administration; there is a need for effective certification of claims and tax debts. Moreover, this is an issue which we have also discussed in the internal structures of the Ministry and which can be taken into account in order to speed up further simplifications. In addition, reference was made to the possibility of using alternative debt instruments. So far these debts have been paid essentially by the State with a new issue of government bonds. In the future, there are no objections to the banking system intervening by providing advances to recount this type of credit. Of course, this can cost money, but in that context it will also be possible to consider the possibility of using forms of state guarantee (such as those mentioned in the decree also in relation to the possibility of using financing from the European Investment Bank). Therefore, in that context - which I have just referred to, namely that of the possible acceleration or addition of repayment of debts in the second part of the year - these methods can also be used. It seems to me that overall I have answered all the questions asked.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u130	Sangalli (PD). Minister, I would also like to thank you for your attention to the measure on the debts of public administrations, which I, too, consider to be a fundamental measure of economic policy and of a very large scale. I do not venture, waiting for the final data of the Ministry, on the total amount of debt because in the last months of work with the previous Government, with the current one and with all the different institutional stakeholders we have heard many different figures. Yet an effort is being made to make debt transparency; this effort will certainly be very useful to our international partners, including at European Union level. I would remind you that in Parliament's work, with the amendment to Article 5 and the introduction of Article 5-a, we have identified ways, shared with the Government, for the Commission to be able to meet the share exceeding 40 billion debt in other ways.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u133	D'ALI' (PdL). Minister, thank you for this extremely interesting part-session of question time on economic issues. We would like you to share the following considerations with us. The reduction in the tax burden has become indispensable in order also to be an instrument of increase of the tax base and therefore would not produce a decrease of revenues, if not from the paper point of view, conception that we would like to abandon. The payment of debts to companies is another possibility of increasing the tax base and therefore also a rebalancing of tax accounts is based on the provision of liquidity. Let us go to Europe to defend these concepts.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u136	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Minister, as regards the quantification of the debt, we note that you are very optimistic. We did not have the figures you explained; moreover, our figures were official figures of both the Bank of Italy and the CGIA of Mestre. In any case, we trust in his optimism. We will also be optimistic if we hope that foreign financial institutions will not be needed to cover their debts.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u139	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Minister, we are satisfied with the assurance that you have given us about the commitment to implement the decree, at least as far as the first 40 billion is concerned. We still have some doubts about what we are going to do about the second tranche. Finally, we hope that we will intervene with determination on the accounting systems, because surely the lack of knowledge of the amount of debts is something that must be overcome and that I consider not worthy of an advanced country like Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u142	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr. Minister, don't feel bad about it, but we will be able to express our real satisfaction when we move from words to deeds. That is the real satisfaction we would like to express to you and to the whole Government. We must be aware that, in order to recover the employment figure before the crisis, almost one million and 700,000 jobs would be needed today. A strong injection of money is needed within the economy. Tell the government, the whole group, that we need to be stronger: we need to go to Europe and discuss it all again, because the European Stability Pact as it is certainly kills our economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u145	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Minister, thank you for what you have said, for the responsible and timely way in which you have answered our questions, as well as for the attention you will pay - as you said - to monitoring how recovery operations will continue in the coming months, even in order to avoid repetition of today's situations. As far as the specific question I put to you is concerned, I assure you that I have checked it with some office managers. The problem of certification can be overcome, and I believe that it is possible to do so, I do not say in a universal way - perhaps it is exaggerated - but at least partially. I believe that this is a sign of good will and fair relations between the public and the private sector, between institutions and enterprises. This signal is needed, because companies are the ones that, in any case, keep the state up, are now the basis from which to draw resources and then provide services. So, a necessary sign of trust, I think, must be given.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u146	FERRARA Mario (PdL). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. FERRARA Mario (PdL). Mr. Minister, I'm a majority leader, so by definition, I have to say I'm satisfied. But since as a gentleman as she is, Minister, at the last she said: "I seem to have answered almost everything." Here: "almost" because how will the Regions have to do for that part that they have spent, that they cannot have transferred? We'll probably still have to see him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So Senator Ferrara is almost satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u149	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, I am almost satisfied, because we are still concerned that there are too many public actors involved (regions, ASL, municipalities, provinces and ministries) and there are many forms that have been adopted (compensations, draw credit from the Deposit Bank loans, involvement of credit institutions and so on). Monitoring requires a further step, a sort of observatory between businesses, government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u150	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I would like to thank Mr Saccomanni for his helpfulness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u151	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-42.ana.u152	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 18 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.30 p.m.
