ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 19 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u4	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are asking for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to ask you a moment's time to include your leave. VOLPI (LN-Aut). President. - I am sorry, the request for a quorum relates to the attendance at the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u5	Of course, I would ask you for a moment of patience: it is only a technical problem that we solve immediately. In the meantime, I ask if they have all taken the card (so we buy time) I ask the senators to hurry because the quorum has been requested. [[Comments of Senators Volpi and Crosio]] The system is initializing and is still not active, so we cannot verify it. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Excuse me, President, one thing is technical, another is to tell the senators to hurry, because if you do a test... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I see the senators in the Chamber: can't I tell them to hurry? Senator Volpi! VOLPI (LN-Aut). I understand, but then it's not a system problem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it's a system problem, and we make some time. VOLPI (LN-Aut). At least ask for support in the meantime! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's the secretary senators who have to tell me when the system is ready. Here, we can proceed. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u8	FLORIS (PdL). Mr President, I would like to point out that my card did not work during the verification of the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u9	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 896. The rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u13	Mr President, the decree-law that we should convert moves in the direction of reducing the population held. In this sense the decree-law uses the penitentiary order by expanding the possibilities of admission to the benefits and raising the roofs provided for in article 47-b of the law on the penitentiary order, regarding the domestic detention, and substantially widening the possibility of enjoying measures which, in fact, determine a defervescence with reference to the quantity of the population held. However, it is clear (the rapporteur allows himself to give this consideration to the report, which will also be brief) that the problem of the excess of the population held is extremely complex: it stems from the sanctions arsenal (of which has been discussed repeatedly in the Commission) which is mainly unbalanced on prison sentences because it is the arsenal sanctioning of the Rocco Code, from a certain rigidity of prison sentences resulting from the "reform of the reform" (if I am allowed this repetition) of 1974, from the failure of the law amending the penal system, Law No 689 of 1981, which should have opened the way to the transformation of minor criminal offences into punitive administrative offences (a law which, in fact, did not have its concrete implementation), from the repeated failures of initiatives in the field of decriminalisation and, in order to touch on the key, from an excess of forecasts of criminal rules. It is clear that the more unbalanced the system is in the direction of providing for qualified offences in the forms of crime and punished with imprisonment, the more the problem of prison crowding is bound to fail to resolve itself. However, in order to come to the main content of the measure in question, it is characterized in Article 1 by an amendment to Article 284 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which, to the credit of the truth, although shared by the Commission, does not affect the matter of prison overcrowding because it is a provision which obliges the judge, when he orders the order of admission to house arrest, to take into account, but in a prevailing way, the requirements for the protection of the person offended by the crime. Basically, it is intended to avoid that the procedures for carrying out the protective custody under house arrest may conflict with the needs of protection of the offended person. Then there is, again in Article 1 of the Decree-Law (i.e. Chapters 4-a, 4-b and 4-c), a whole series of provisions amending Article 656 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is the generalist rule in the matter of execution of conviction. Essentially, it is intended that the prosecutor, when verifying that - calculated the early release, calculated the deductions by the effect of a previous custody in prison and any further deductions arising from statements of fungibility with a previous conviction without cause - the remaining penalty to be atonement does not exceed the limits indicated by paragraph 5 of article 656 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, do not issue the order of execution of the sentence in advance but, made these calculations, transmit the file to the magistrate of surveillance for the application of the so-called early release. Article 4-c then provides that the issue of the prison order will be subsequent, precisely, to the assessments in this matter (which, pursuant to Article 69- bis of the Law on penitentiary law, will take the role of the order) of the magistrate of surveillance. On the contrary, paragraph 4-b provides, in the event that the subject is in custody, that the public prosecutor issues the order of execution of sentence (in this case, of course, there is no need to respect the state of freedom of the sentenced person), but transmits without delay to the magistrate of surveillance his assessments and in any case the file containing the order of execution. In order to continue in the direction marked by paragraph 1 of article 1 of the decree-law, there is then an amendment of paragraph 5 of article 656 of the code of criminal procedure that provides for the possibility to suspend the issue of the order of imprisonment - therefore before its issue - that is characterized by an increase of the previewed edittal roofs, that become "three years," four years in the cases provided for by article 47-b, paragraph 1" of the law on the penitentiary order. Then there is a problem of some importance (at least it is the most important one recorded during the discussions held in the Commission), arising from paragraph 9 of Article 656 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, not only with reference to the crimes for which the particular procedure referred to in paragraph 5 is not provided, but also and above all with reference to the exclusions of the letter c) of paragraph 9, which concern the relapses, referred to in the fourth paragraph of Article 99 of the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, I make this speech once and for all, and I say this once and for all because it clearly concerns a whole series of provisions for which the Decree-Law removes the restrictions on recurring, repeated or specific ones, some of which were instead reintroduced during the debate in the Commission. However, the spirit of the decree-law under examination is aimed at eliminating the preclusions of an automatic nature, we could say by subjective criminal categories; that is to say, we want to prevent recurrences, repeated or specific ones from being excluded from a number of benefits. The Commission, however, although aware not only of the importance of the problem with regard to the reduction of the population held, but above all of the regime of relapse in our criminal law (which has been particularly intensified with the latest legislative changes affecting it), considered that, regardless of the general discourses that can be made on the subject of relapse - but certainly elsewhere - it would be contradictory to link the seriousness of the sanctioning effects foreseen by the penal code and then not to take account of them at the stage of execution of the conviction, especially with reference to benefits that could relate to relapses for serious crimes, which, in relation to the original wording contained in the decree-law of the Government and with regard to alternative measures to detention, such as custody or home detention, would substantially deprive of meaning of an aggravating circumstance to which, on the contrary, the penal code recognizes a considerable importance. In a word, it seemed precisely contradictory not to take account of the relapse in the execution of condemnation and, I repeat, with reference to the benefits foreseen by the law on the penitentiary order. As I mentioned at the outset, much has been discussed about the exclusion from the catalog of crimes that do not allow the benefit referred to in paragraph 5 of Article 656 of the case of forest fire, of multiple grievous theft and of house theft. In fact, the text of the Government (and, at this point, I take account not only of the text of the Government, but also of the discussion in the Commission and some of the amendments introduced) removed these cases from the catalog of so-called impediments and identified only in the maltreatment at home (Article 572 of the Criminal Code), if aggravated, and in the case referred to in Article 612-a of the Criminal Code (persecutory acts, better known as stalking, if aggravated), the two cases against which, on the contrary, exclusion from the benefit was determined. Again, paragraph 10 of Article 656 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a particular discipline with regard to the possibility of suspension of the issuance of the order of imprisonment against prisoners under arrest at home. This is essentially the content of paragraph 1 of Article 1, which therefore has the object of prevailing Article 656 of our Code of Criminal Procedure. Article 2, on the other hand, is concerned about the possibility of extending the procedures for the execution of the sentence through the use of external work, with reference to the possibility of carrying out these activities not only in the State, the Regions, the Provinces and the Municipalities, but also in social assistance and voluntary organizations. There is also, of course, the reference to Law No 274 of 28 August 2000 on the criminal jurisdiction of the peace judge. The following is point (b) concerning Article 47-b of the penitentiary order and the rule concerning so-called house detention. These measures have also been the subject of debate with regard to the problems of relapse (to which I referred previously, but in a summary way, so much so that I will no longer talk about it), because in the decree-law the paragraph 1.1 is deleted, in the matter of limitation of the entity of the condemnation as regards the domestic detention for the relapses, and part of paragraph 1-a, always of article 47-b, which concerns instead the measure of the so-called general or biennial domiciliar detention. These two provisions were deleted where an amendment was adopted in the debate in the Commission and reinstated them. The number 3 of paragraph (b) of Article 2 instead regulates a particular hypothesis referred to in paragraph 1-c, also of Article 47-b, providing that, when there is a risk of prejudice to the health or the conditions of freedom of the sentenced person, there is the possibility to ask to anticipate the request for house arrest by proposing it to the magistrate of surveillance instead of to the court of surveillance. Then there is the deletion of paragraph 9 of Article 47-b and the very controversial reference to the deletion of Article 30-c - with reference precisely to paragraph 9 - and Article 50-a of the penitentiary order. These are limitations for relapses in the matter of premium permit and semi-freedom. There is also point (d) which establishes the principle that the three alternative measures to detention provided for by the Law on penitentiary law can only be granted once for the benefit of aggravated or repeated relapses, or of persons convicted of serious crimes for some. In short, the number 4 of letter (b) referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law in conversion was maintained in the debate in the Commission, albeit with a limited majority (the reference, for what it is worth, to demonstrate the in-depth debate that took place there). In addition, Article 3 of the Decree-Law introduces the possibility for drug addicts or drug addicts to allow the execution of the external criminal conviction for other offences (other offences are defined as offences other than those related to drug addiction, or drug addicts). Therefore, the benefits referred to in paragraph 5-a of Article 73 of the Decree of the President of the Republic of 9 October 1990, No 309 would be extended not only to crimes that we could define - using an improper term - functional, but also to other criminal offences: this is an expression which the Commission (which voted on an amendment to delete Article 5-b) seemed to have no justification, precisely for the reason that it allows a benefit to drug addicts and drug addicts with regard to offences that do not find justification in their subjective condition. The expression "other offences" has, in fact, seemed to the Commission so broad and dilated that it allows the benefit referred to in paragraph 5-a only by virtue of a subjective qualification and in the absence of any link between the crime and the subjective condition, which, on the contrary, if related to the crime, justifies, according to the letter of Article 5-a itself, the benefit of the execution of the sentence provided for there. The following is Article 4, which contains very detailed rules on which amendments have been tabled, which will then be presented, with regard to the tasks assigned to the Special Commissioner of the Government for Infrastructure. In the debate in the Commission - as I imagine it will be explained in the general discussion - other provisions have also been introduced (in particular Article 4-a) to ensure the efficiency of the prison administration and, in particular, to remove the number of employees of the penitentiary administration from the reduction of the amount of employees provided for in some recent legislative provisions, precisely in order to ensure, even with a related supplementary provision, the efficiency of the penitentiary system. In fact, if such a system is to ensure defervescence, reduction and, in any case, the quality of treatment, it cannot inevitably be the victim of the falsity of the reduction of employees provided for by some recent legislative provisions in this regard. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a summary, but I hope it is complete, the report on the decree-law and the main amendments voted on in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u16	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to take note of two statements by the European Parliament, and I would therefore like to speak in advance so that we can make a point of order on this point. Within this measure, as was also mentioned by the rapporteur, and in particular in Article 2, there are elements that speak of outsourcing of work and some passages related to the use of these people to carry out work outside the prison in various ways. I would refer here to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, which calls for the expression of the opinion of the CNEL to be given precisely for this particular detail. Our Rules of Procedure provide that: When drafts of laws or business are being discussed which import economic, financial and social policy guidelines or in any case economic and labour-related issues, each Senator may propose that the opinion of the National Economic and Labour Council be requested before the end of the general discussion. I believe that this step is necessary in order to see the impact of this situation, which is not clear, and to see whether those entrusted with it must have a reward and whether they carry out a certain type of social work. The impact is there, and I therefore request that the opinion of the CNEL be annexed to this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u17	Senator Volpi, the Presidency takes note of your request, which will be examined following the examination of the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u18	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we have considered, as the North-Autonomous League Group, to present the preliminary question QP1, which highlights the profiles of constitutional illegitimacy that the measure brings, as well as some illegitimacy, which we would like to highlight in this regard, and all this in order to express our absolute and firm opposition to this measure. It is a decree-law aimed at addressing the problem of prison overcrowding which intervenes by changing the rules of execution of the sentence in the criminal codes and of criminal procedure, providing, with respect to custody and detention in prison, even the early release of prisoners as a way or system, almost under regime, to address the issue of prison overcrowding: in reality, it is a sort of real indult, even if masked. This provision must be read in line with the next one that will arrive, and that has been examined in the Chamber, the so-called empty-carceers. These actions are undertaken by the Government to counter and solve a problem that we know is serious, burdensome and long-standing and which, precisely for this reason, has been dragging for many years. It is from more legislation that in these classrooms we hear about this issue, but it is solved with measures of this kind, among other things presented to our attention in the form of a decree of urgency, that is, with acts of primary standardization that, in theory, should have the characteristics of extraordinary necessity and urgency. On the other hand, these are chronic problems, which should be solved by a serious policy of prison housing, by structural measures which the government must finally have the courage to take on and which have been tried to take on countless times and which have never been completed. In particular, entering precisely in the merit of the provision, with this act the Government adopts modifications that go to affect, as I said, in the code of criminal procedure and in the penal code, even extending the functions and powers of the extraordinary commissioner for the prison infrastructures, that it was already previewed, integrating also its functions and its tasks, regarding the previewed to law in force. We really ask where is the respect of the constitutional presuppositions referred to in Articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution, which so often in other provisions, here, in these classrooms, everyone recalls. Here the character of extraordinary necessity and urgency does not recur. Among other things, the measure intervenes to include such special measures to counter, precisely, the overcrowding prison, going to affect the execution of the sentence exauterating the prerogatives of the Parliament, because it is an act of empire assumed by the Government. Moreover, in the technical report accompanying the measure, it is said that the application of these measures should not result in any new or increased burden on the state's finances. But also this aspect is not at all clear, because we are thinking of some kind of recovery of resources for the state budget, whereas in reality we should also think about what it means for state finances to ensure the right and necessary safeguard of the interests of citizens when, in any case, security and protection measures are to be put in place for those who are then called upon to serve the last course of the sentence under house arrest. In this case, protection and security measures and systems must be put in place which certainly involve costs, but also affect the law enforcement sector, which, as we know, is always particularly in crisis in terms of resources and personnel. The tasks that are entrusted to prisoners to contemplate the period of punishment may also be so-called socially useful works: works of public utility in private and public structures or bodies and associations. It should be pointed out, however, that this provision also entails additional burdens: we only think about what compulsory insurance for civil liability for damages against third parties means. Among other things, it is not clear in the accompanying report whether the resources provided for must be borne by the municipal budgets which are already reduced to the expenditure or by the budgets of the institutions which are then to be provided. These aspects are not addressed in the measure: they are absolutely not clarified in the technical report accompanying the act. There is another aspect that needs to be considered. The provisions of the measure under consideration also violate Article 3 of the Constitution from the point of view of reasonableness, because the application of these rules, even if - we can all understand - justified from a social and moral point of view by the motivation to ensure that prisoners can serve the sentence in suitable environments, is, however, aimed - as said - at overcoming the problem of prison overcrowding, creating a clear inequality between citizens who are subject to restrictive personal measures and those who, on the other hand, can benefit from the facilitated regime. We do not understand why certain categories of prisoners can benefit from these rules and others do not. I repeat: this contrasts with Article 3 of the Constitution in a clear way. It should also be borne in mind that the powers of the Extraordinary Commissioner are being extended and also forced into action, because an act of urgency (i.e. with an instrument of urgent decision) is being taken to ensure that the Commissioner is given additional powers and additional functions, even in this case exorbitant from the powers of delegation that would be permitted. Therefore, there is no respect for the parameters of necessity and urgency; there is violation of Article 3, as well as of Article 81 of the Constitution, precisely because of the above mentioned lack of financial cover. I would remind you, among other things, that this article is always referred to in all the measures, where we feel that there is no coverage for measures considered important by citizens, such as the abolition of the IMU on the first house, or for measures that favour families and businesses. Referring to Article 81 of the Constitution, the hypothesis of a lack of financial coverage to reject measures of interest to citizens is raised. In the present case, however, for such a measure, which undermines and strongly harms the safety of citizens, the problem of coverage has not even been taken into account. The present decree-law, then, is also unconstitutional, because it violates another pivotal principle: that enshrined in Article 101, first period, of the Constitution, where it reads: Justice is administered in the name of the people. In fact, if we want to analyse the substance of the measure well, the use of emergency legislation by the Commission basically undermines Parliament's legislative function, that is, the only body called upon to exercise the will of the people. For all these reasons, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group reiterates its strong opposition to the method and merit of the measure under consideration and will seek in every way to prevent it from being converted into law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u19	Senator Volpi, I would like to ask you whether you are going to further explain the CNEL's request for an opinion or whether you think it has been explained.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u20	Mr President, I think it has already been explained, partly because it seems to me that the Rules of Procedure on this issue are very clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u21	I wanted to give you another chance to illustrate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u22	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President, but I think the request is very clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u23	I would remind you that on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, and on the request for the opinion of the CNEL, a single debate will take place, during which one representative per group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u26	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, our Group does not agree with the question that has now been raised by my colleague and does not agree with the question of the CNEL, which was raised by Mr Volpi, to some extent suspensive. We do not agree with the arguments put forward so far by my colleagues for reasons of their own. It has been said that the measure in our examination would take as an alibi, if not as an excuse and justification, the data of overcrowding to intervene, in reality, on protective custody. This is true, but it's not all true. Colleagues of the League, with many of you we found ourselves on these whites when we discussed the data of overcrowding. Those of overcrowding, both when Mr Cancellieri was Minister, and when Mr Nitto Palma was Minister, and when Mr Alfano was Minister, are largely data of an excess, of a use and several times of an abuse of recourse to protective custody. So, my colleague's argument seems to me to be a tendentious ping pong - if I may say so - compared to the even more slippery ping pong in which the next topic is put forward: necessity and urgency are not there because the problem is structural, it is a chronic problem. I believe I am not tendentious as a synthesizer or verbalizer of my colleague's thinking. But this is to some extent unacceptable. It is improper of a democracy. As long as the Senate is a Chamber of Freedom, what is necessary and urgent for someone has the same right to be rejected and to be considered unnecessary and not urgent by others, for example the opposition. So let's stop with this drug of legal positivism in considering the constitutional issue as a kelsenian issue of objective law: no, it is a political issue. And I respect all the arguments of merit, of opposition, if necessary of obstructionism, but we do not accept as a Group of ancient democratic tradition that the constitutional question subenesively subtly to the questions of political merit. A final consideration which is worth, in some way, absorbing in the question referred for a preliminary ruling the arguments on the basis of the request for the opinion of CNEL, which was to some extent suspensive, made by Senator Volpi. But if this measure affects a mechanism based on socially useful work, perhaps a cost mechanism, from this point of view Article 81 of the Constitution applied to the conversion of a decree-law has all other ways of being respected by parliamentary work. Senator Volpi, the function of the sentence in our Constitutional Charter is not a merely grievous function and, therefore, the argument of socially useful works is grafted into law. Therefore, from this point of view, I repeat what I said about the arguments raised by Mr Bisinella: there are opportunities for merit in which to assert it. Let us not hide behind a constitutional issue that is not there and keep all the right, in political terms, to legislate on this matter. The same is true of what I thought - and I am allowed to say so by my colleague - the usual and abused cleverness of maxi Article 3 of the Constitution on equality. To arrive with a skilful twist of the arguments to give a privileged condition, in positive relation to the order, to those in prison seems to me an argument too intelligent not to seem too smart and, therefore, foreign to the dictation, the spirit and the norms of our Constitution. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u29	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the 5 Star Movement Group believes that it is necessary to approve the question raised by the League, essentially sharing its basic observations, namely the censorship of the umpteenth recourse to the decree of urgency, by way of derogation from the letter and the spirit of Article 77 of the Constitution, which once again forces (and we fear that it will not be the last) this Parliament and also the Commissions to have to follow the examination and an analysis, which for these reasons very often cannot be even detailed and well thought out, of the whole legislative text. Once again we are faced with regulatory measures, albeit hypothetically necessary - and the prison issue, we know very well, exists and deserves a dignified solution for a country that still wants to consider itself civil - with the urgent decree that, once again, we consider expropriating Parliament from its institutional role as provided for in the Constitution. We also share all the concerns about the financial cover for the extension of the functions of the Government's Special Commissioner for Prison Infrastructure, as referred to in Article 4 of the measure. Therefore, by sharing the spirit and the reasons for the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1, the M5S Group announces its vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u32	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1 was not formulated as a question of constitutionality, although one of the first arguments is that of violation of Article 3 of the Constitution. I would remind myself that the constitutional scrutiny of one rule is based on another rule and not on legislative changes to the previous situation; otherwise everything would be unconstitutional, because we would have a comparison between the new and the old discipline and not between two existing rules. One cannot then reason in probabilistic terms with respect to a bill of conversion of a decree-law that fixes some stakes from the economic point of view. I am thinking of the invariance of expenditure and the chapter already devoted to the Extraordinary Commissioner, who already has a very specific and disciplined activity. This measure is intended to ensure more rapid functionality and to achieve a minimum of dignity in prisons. Through the work of the Extraordinary Commissioner, we want to build new units and new pavilions and restructure existing ones. We all know the degrading situation in some prisons in Italy. So we cannot reason on the grounds that the available economic resources are not enough, to the point that the invariance of expenditure becomes something that is not correct. That is not the case, because at the limit another piece of legislation will be needed. The criticism of the decree-law, and therefore of the recourse to the decree of urgency, although I agree in general, in the specific hypothesis does not stand. It is argued that in the area of justice and penalties Parliament's intervention should be taken into account; not even to do so on purpose, however, the Commission has approved - as the amendments show - a number of corrections which make the measure more consistent with the aims. It would certainly have been desirable - I have always hoped - for the possibility of intervening under ordinary legislation, but I do not forget that the measure under consideration represents a supplement - as Senator Bisinella correctly pointed out - to the other measure before the second question referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. Standing committee, approved by the House of Deputies, on the modification of alternative penalties. This is a further corollary of the overall system of penitentiary and prison management, which should therefore be considered unitary. As far as the question we call suspensive is concerned, I would point out that Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure explicitly provides for the request for an opinion of CNEL when draft laws or business are being discussed which import economic, financial and social policy guidelines. Pretending that voluntary and free work of prisoners, where possible, representing a concrete explanation of the constitutional dictation, can affect the economic, financial and social policy of our country is out of place. Therefore, the only aspect that remains outstanding is related to the words "in any case" questions that fall within the sphere of economy and labour. However, this is voluntary work, free of charge, which serves to re-socialize and re-education the condemned, so I do not understand what the CNEL assessment can be. For these reasons, therefore, I shall also vote on behalf of my Group against the question referred for a preliminary ruling and against the request for an opinion by the CNEL. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u35	ALBERTINI (SPI). Mr President, my colleague, Mr Caliendo, has already extensively developed the subject of aspects closely related to work which could analogously justify the intervention of the National Economic and Labour Council, but he has rightly excluded it as regards voluntary unpaid work of prisoners. So it's a case to itself, which justifies itself. I just want to reiterate, by declaring our vote against the question referred for a preliminary ruling, two substantive arguments justifying the way in which we proceed by decree: the urgency determined by the condition of overcrowding, which provided for extraordinary interventions both in the legislative and by the President of the Council of Ministers by decree, and the fact that the European Court of Justice considered that our country violated, precisely on this aspect, Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In this context, even in the judgment that develops this argument, better known as the Torreggiani judgment, these issues are closely related to the orientation suggested by the Member States to decriminalize, where possible, and therefore to introduce elements other than imprisonment to sanction the crimes committed (I refer to a constitutional principle in relation to the redemption of the realm). Therefore, in this scenario this intervention is fully justified. I would like to add one final remark: in order to make up for overcrowding, it is also envisaged - an extraordinary Commissioner is responsible for this role - that there should be an extension of the receptiveness, but these scenarios are much more complex and require much more structural action, with public works and considerable resources, which cannot respond to the emerging nature of the situation. With these arguments, our answer goes in the opposite direction to the question referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u38	CASSON (PD). Mr President, there are essentially five reasons for the preliminary constitutionality which have been outlined and presented in writing and which concern, in summary, Articles 77, 76, 3, 81 and 101 of our Constitutional Charter. In reply to the first part of the objections, those relating to Article 77, i.e. whether or not the requirements of necessity and urgency are met, I think it is sufficient to refer to the subject we are dealing with in order to realize, instead, that we are in a real emergency situation. When we talk about this at national level - in all areas: social, political and institutional - we all realize that the overcrowding of the penitentiary is a national emergency, it is an urgent issue for a number of reasons that are not at all questioned by anyone. It is precisely the decree-law in question that is proposed to Parliament by the Government as a first solution within a series of solutions that must be addressed, discussed and voted on in order to try to remedy the situation and eliminate this social and institutional scourge. It is a phenomenon that involves very high costs from both a social and a human point of view. There are violations of fundamental rights, which concern a large number of people in prison, which must be tackled absolutely, all the more so - and this is another reason for urgency - that there are sentences and condemnations by the European Court of Human Rights against our State which impose a remedy or, in any case, proposals for a solution quickly, if not very quickly. This would be enough to undermine the challenge of the requirements of necessity and urgency. With regard to the reference to Article 76 of the Constitution, concerning delegation, I sincerely do not even recall the text on which a comparison should be made. In this case, in fact, it is not a delegation given to the Government, but a series of specific rules that intervene on the penal code, on that of criminal procedure and on special laws such as those in the matter of drugs, so I do not think a question of delegation in the technical sense in accordance with Article 76. Therefore, from this point of view too, the objection should be rejected. Just as the reference to Article 3 of our Constitutional Charter should be rejected, because we do not see it as a violation of the principle of equality enshrined in this constitutional rule. On the other hand, it is expressly indicated a profile of reasonableness, because with this decree-law we intervene on certain situations by selecting very precise and precise between those who are characterized by the specific condition of the social alarm and those who instead, precisely because they do not have this characteristic because they do not have social alarm profiles, are, as it were, benefited from this measure. Therefore, the intrinsic logic of the bill is very clear: action is taken for certain situations of zero or very limited social alarm, while - as has already been said - for situations of social alarm, especially if serious, the current legislation is not touched at all. Precisely for this reason the measure moves on a double line of intervention: on the one hand, there are measures aimed at structurally affecting prison flows, which act on both outgoing and incoming entry; on the other hand, there are greater opportunities for alternative treatment to prison for the least dangerous prisoners, precisely to meet the indications of the European Court of Human Rights and the need to respect people avoiding situations of worsening and weight, aiming at the re-education of the penalty sanctioned by our Constitutional Charter. The other point raised is an alleged violation of Article 81 of our Constitutional Charter. However, I would point out that in this respect the examination made so far by the Budget Committee shows essentially that there is no such perspective in the text presented by the Government. The Commission points out some small conditions, which can be easily overcome, as the Government has already said. So there is no such problem with the text. This afternoon, when we start voting and the 5th Commission formulates its opinions on the amendments tabled, we will see how the situation as a whole is going to develop. At the moment, such disputes are not acceptable precisely because even within the Senate, by the Commission of competent merit, these situations are not reported. Then there is one aspect that I find frankly incomprehensible, because it refers to Article 101, the first period, of our Constitutional Charter, in which it is said that justice is administered in the name of the people. I do not understand how this decree-law violates this constitutional provision and therefore I am unable to comment on the point. The last question raised concerns the request for an opinion to the CNEL, pursuant to Rule 98 of our Rules of Procedure. I think it is sufficient to read the text of the first paragraph of Article 98 to realise that this is a completely different hypothesis. This rule refers to economic, financial and social policy guidelines. In this sense, we are completely outside the scope because, as I have explained, these are specific rules concerning intervention on persons detained, which are characterised by more or less serious social alarms. Certainly there are issues that concern the rehabilitation phase, the rehabilitation phase. The provision, therefore, would allow these people to move to work and make the best use of their time from the social perspective of recovery because, we all know very well, that, where there are job opportunities for prisoners, the rate of relapse falls in an incredible way (I believe it is more than 80%). This is an extremely important social, political and economic fact to remember. On this point, as I said, I simply say that Article 2 of this decree-law provides that prisoners and internees may be assigned to provide their activities on a voluntary basis and free of charge in the execution of projects of public benefit to the community. .. (........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They are, therefore, exclusively profitable activities. I do not see how it can interfere with the opinion of the CNEL, even for the last part of Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure. Finally, the rules relating to the special Commissioner are certainly urgent, first of all because they concern the extension of a time limit. I recall, moreover, that this deadline, extended until 31 December 2014, refers to the limits already contained in the decree of the President of the Republic of 3 December 2012 and is limited to the clarification of tasks that are aimed exclusively at the fulfilment and completion of the provisions and intentions of the decree-law. The rules allow for prisoners living in this grave state of overcrowding that there is recovery, re-education and a dignified human situation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u39	I put to the vote the question referred by Senator Bitonci and other senators for a preliminary ruling. It's not approved. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are no conditions for counterproofing. I put to the vote the request to acquire the formal opinion of CNEL, made by Senator Volpi. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u40	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Undersecretary present representing the Government, partly because, for this urgent and important measure, for which we must run to free prisoners, I do not see in this House, as is happening for many measures, the Minister. The Minister is not interested in supporting his bill. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Cappelletti and Taverna]] I think we should ask ourselves a question about this, because last week I saw a highly esteemed colleague, Secretary, representing the Government on two different measures. I would ask my colleagues in the majority to urge the Ministers to come to this House. I would like to thank Mr Casson because, when he spoke about the request I had made to obtain the opinion of CNEL, he said that this measure does not contain a social fact and does not concern work. Ergo, taking up his words, this is a useless and unnecessary provision. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It falls the fig leaf which consists in saying that the provision provides tools for reeducation, which allows prisoners who leave the prison to participate in the collateral activities of the work. He himself said he didn't need it. However, Mr President, out of all controversy and speaking very seriously, it must be said that the measure has taken into consideration an amendment which urges the magistrate, at the time when he will remove a prisoner from the prison condition, to be careful that that person cannot in any way cause any damage to his victims. If you feel obliged to include a phrase of this kind, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, would you like to acknowledge with us the social danger that lies in this measure? I must also admit that I am a little surprised and I must say that some of my fellow Members who have spoken on the question of referral have said many things that they did not believe either. Attention, however: when it happens that some of these who go out will commit a crime, know that the stain will fall on the Senate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to Mr Legista's speech and to the reflections that have led him to make such statements. From a political point of view, each of us is free, within this House, to support our arguments, to try forcefully to prove that they are right and to convince our fellow Members to take a path that will subsequently lead to a vote and the writing of a law. I would like to make a few comments, and I would ask the President to allow me, in case I fail to complete them, to hand over the text of my speech. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some of you know more about the history of prisons in modern times than I do. Some and some of you may have read "Surveilling and punishing" by Michel Foucault. He is the same European thinker of French origin who wrote "The birth of the clinic" and who gave the memorable lectures on self-care and self-knowledge. For this philosopher there is an underground of millennial parallelisms between the processes of detection, surveillance, prevention and punishment of any deviation from the norm that peoples-nations and States historically establish, preserve and modify. The prison and the clinic in modernity are the institutions of containment of deviants, the places to defend communities and communities from the violence and contagion of the behaviors of those symbols that are unable to take care of, or knowledge of themselves. The other popular name of the prison is "galera." The prison was a ship anchored off the coast where the reported, suspects, defendants were locked up pending trial and possible conviction; in which case the sentenced person was taken and led to the execution of the sentence. But already in the eighteenth century the surveillance and punishment machine jammed, so much so that Jeremy Bentham, a European philosopher of British origin, reformer, economist and lawyer, and with him every student of his scattered for the capitals of Europe, dedicated more than half of his long-lived activity to think about the problem of civil coexistence connected to his connatural shadows: illness and crime, clinic and jail. In 1791 he even published an ideal prison project, with a total observatory, a continuous inspection house: it was a structure whose single cells were arranged in a semicircle with gates open towards the center, so that the light coming from the windows made visible to a single overseer placed in the center the life of every inmate 24 hours a day. It was the obsession of total and continuous surveillance as punishment in itself, the deprivation of any private space: the guilty and sick should not have had any intimacy. Fortunately, from the French Revolution to today we have discovered, claimed, institutionalized and defended human rights as inviolable good even of the sick and the guilty. We began to hope for the possibility of redemption of the guilty and healing of the sick. Alongside the defence of the community, security, we have institutionalized individual treatment and social reintegration. In Europe, and perhaps in the world, thanks to our Tuscan countrymen, we were the first to abolish the death penalty. From the work "Dei delitti e delle peni" by Cesare Beccaria to the law no. 663, of October 10, 1986, called Gozzini law, from the name of Senator Mario Gozzini who presented the bill, we have, at least on the Constitutional Charter, the best system that connects surveillance and punishment. On the front of the clinic, with Law No 180 of 13 May 1980 on health and mental illness, the Law of Reform of 23 December 1978, n. 833, which established the National Health Service, the health-ter reform (legislative decree n. 229 of 1999), we tried to include the rights of the person in the processes of surveillance and punishment: on paper, indeed, in reality we have only a few appropriate institutions. Along the past four lustres we would have liked to make further progress towards the destatization and empowerment of civil and social institutions, but historical events, private, commercial, party and political interests, ignorance and over-archism, arrogant beginners, people of good will but naive, sudden collapse of granite ideologies have helped to frustrate liberalisations and socializations, making steps back pseudostatilizing. So now we find ourselves a collapsed prison institution and prisoners forced to survive in inhumane conditions, on the one hand, and on the other with a health system among the best in the world, but with the state of health of the population in the fortieth place: it is a situation that really makes us shudder. We have over 60,000 inmates, 20,000 in excess of the capacity of detention and punishment institutions; one third of all prisoners are awaiting trial; about 20,000 are in prison for micro-criminal offences, linked to behavior resulting from drug addiction. We have about 100,000 cases a year that fall under the statute of limitations because the magistrates are unable to comply in time for the mandatory prosecution. According to some research by the Confindustria, justice shortages cost us almost 7% of GDP. For the ancient Greeks, when neither supervision nor punishment could be controlled, religion was used. According to the Christian philosopher and politician, for even probi men would commit crimes, if certain of not being seen and being unpunished, then someone had the idea of creating a god who would observe everyone's behavior even in the secret of his own mind. On the other hand, in the Holy Bible, as the people of God build their own history, the concept of surveillance and punishment evolves, until they come to elaborate the concept of punishment that is social compensation and reintegration as a process for the security of the community. It is a concept that has in itself the idea that only socialization could have resources for the transformation of a deed into a socially useful citizen: no longer the vengeance of the most on the individual, of society on the deviant. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude by authorizing her to attach the text of her speech to the shorthand report. SCILIPOTI (PdL). The conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 78 of 1 July 2013, which we are discussing, focusing on the quantitative and qualitative extension of alternative measures to prison sentence and custody, both in the execution and in the prosecution phase, seems to me that it takes into account those moments of civilization that I have allowed to mention and particularly towards the socialization, territorialization and domiciliation of the prison. I also, of course, share those points where crimes of particular social seriousness, such as feminicides and violence against minors, are excluded. In conclusion, for the sake of faith and reason, as Pope John Paul II wrote in his encyclical of the same name, I will vote in favour of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 78 of 1 July 2003 and restate my confidence in the government's ability to maintain and intelligence in dealing with some of the causes that lie ahead of the recurrent crowds, putting my hand on some of the issues for which radicals and other parliamentarians have fought inside and outside this House together with the PdL. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u43	The Presidency authorizes you, as has already been said, to attach the text of your speech to the shorthand report. Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u44	Mr President, at the outset I would like to point out that our country has also been called upon by the European Commission to deal with the problem of prisons, and the Head of State himself has repeatedly wanted to express his discomfort and concern about the state in which our institutions are in pain. What do we do? What does this government do? Try to solve the problem of prisons by emptying them, under the banner of free all, but this is a response that worries us, and especially the citizens. In a nutshell, we will find ourselves getting these gallant men out of prison and then, after about fifteen days, having to ensure again these characters graced by this indult masked to the prison patriae. That's how it's gonna end. We wonder what attitude those who are parliamentarians to exercise this role of control, to guarantee the security of the country, that is, the police and police forces, who will see these gentlemen out and have to chase them again. I wonder how a servant of the State can feel when the response of politics is brief, roughly and without a foundation. Mr President, if I may, I would like to make a comment on Article 4. In our country we have a heritage of volumes, buildings, within the cities in which the prison structures are located. I would like to give an example, and I am pleased that Mr Albertini is here. In Milan a proposal was made by the then mayor, who was his colleague Albertini, and by the then minister Castelli: the volume of San Vittore was taken into consideration and the architectural and urban context of the city was redesigned, among other things involving one of the greatest architects in the world, Norman Foster, who repeated the same volume vertically, creating an element of recognition within the city. Everything worked in terms of urban planning, planning and economics. But, Mr President, one morning, as happens in our country, the usual provider of public works stood up, or who for him, saying: hands off St. Victor. This happened: an official of the State went sideways when legitimately a mayor and a minister tried to make a grand operation in Milan, as was done at the time for the Fair. I will conclude by saying that we have tabled some amendments and an agenda so that in our country those important obsolete volumes inserted in the landscape and environmental context of the cities are requalified and re-proposed in a serious way, as was intended in Milan at the time, but we were not allowed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Sciascia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u45	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even in this parliamentary term, which is just as timely as taxes, the long-standing problem of overcrowding in prisons arises again. As usual, in this country we do not cure the causes, but we only intervene on the harmful consequences. We know that this country cannot afford to abolish the principle of mandatory prosecution, it is not mature, and I realize that this Government could not put its hand without shaking the system of penalties, because it is not strong enough. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] Ours is a system centered on the so-called laws Bossi-Fini and Fini-Giovanardi, two bad laws that have given a bad test, contributing decisively to fill the prisons with poor people who only ask to be cured or to be able to live their work, here or elsewhere, since in their homeland they cannot do it. That said, there was nothing left but to solve the problem empirically. We needed to find a decent place for every prisoner. This should have served, for example, Article 4 of the decree-law today to our examination, yet this provision does not identify solutions, but strengthens a structure, the government's extraordinary commissioner for prison infrastructure, which is of no use. The solution to the problem of overcrowding of prisons already exists. A magistrate kept in great consideration, in words, by this Government, Nicola Gratteri, reminds us that there are very simple systems for emptying prisons. No one has yet explained why prisons were closed in 1994 in the islands of Pianosa and Asinara. In Italy there are empty military prisons: why don't we tell you these things? In many prisons there are empty arms: why not restore them and make the best use of them? From this bill, then, I would have expected a precise indication that would clarify, for example, the fate of the prison of Gela, already inaugurated three times and today open for 32 prisoners. And what about the Arghillà prison in Calabria, a state-of-the-art facility, now that the road to it has been built? Is he going to rule? What about Cropani Prison? What about Irsina's? I avoid listing them all, but there are still about 30 empty prisons from a recent count, which could be used to solve the problem of overcrowding in a short time. And what about the prison staff? The bill is concerned with finding and/or building accommodation for staff, which is insufficient. Are you planning to adjust the staff? Once again, no answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer afford holy wars against drugs or the foreigner who arrives in our country in search of bread and work. Even if we opened up new prisons, we would not be able to spend so much money in these times of crisis. This measure is not a step forward but a side step. Although not completely flunky, it doesn't solve anything at all. Let's consider it a starting point to decide what kind of country we want to become. We could build a country of which we are proud, welcoming and merciful (this term is meant as a feeling of compassion and pity for the unhappiness and misfortune of others that leads us to help, to forgive and not to rage); a country that, with good peace of accountants, costs us even less. Preventing works much better than curing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a measure that will cause much discussion in the country. And that could be so, of course, because we are talking about something that will undoubtedly affect the lives of our fellow citizens. Frankly, speaking of redemption, as we have heard in this circumstance, knows a lot of hypocrisy because it links the redemption of the prisoner with the need to give more space in prisons. In a civilised country, which wants to respect the rights of honest citizens, if more space is to be given in prisons, new prisons are being built before the problem becomes unsustainable. And here it is right who comes to argue that, for the umpteenth time, we provide with the urgency of a decree-law to a situation that has become unsustainable. This country, in fact, seems accustomed to intervene only with decrees and urgency, precisely because of the inability to look at the problems and resolve them in advance. That is what we must begin to dwell on. Did you need a decree-law? We needed such a strong intervention, when, as has already been well argued, we can build plans that also give space to the economy? Senator Crosio said well before, when he made the example of the City of Milan: the same prison structure can be an opportunity for investment in our country. Let these prisons be remodeled, which are obsolete and often nineteenth-century, but not emptying them of the inmates who are inside them, but making available adequate prison facilities to a country that is said to be civil. Let us invest, and in this sense too, we will recreate a new economy. But let us not mix the question of overcrowding with that of the necessary security of our citizens, otherwise we are telling a lie. It leaves us very perplexed this way of doing the Government, to which we certainly say no, because this is the only so-called civil country where the extent of the sentence is dependent not on the intrinsic gravity of the crime or that considered by the citizens, but on the size of the prisons. This is at least surreal. Senator Casson spoke of the social scourge of overcrowding, but I say that the social scourge is the slowness of the trials that leaves citizens waiting for judgment within prisons for years. Social plunder is the old-fashioned criminals who tear the lives of honest citizens. And the social scourge is also a political world that fails to respond coherently with the aspirations of honesty that our citizens have. What kind of untrustworthy message do we then give to law enforcement? Do we give the message of a country that respects its citizens? Do we give a message of respect for the laws? No, let's just say that those who don't respect them then, thanks to a sponge stroke, can be released. Mr President, I would have hoped that the measures of the decree-law would preserve at least one serious crime such as the omission of aid, and instead we will continue to give the citizens the example of who, by wandering along the streets, overwhelms people, abandons them and then can serve the days of punishment at home, comfortably, without being locked up in jail, as it should be. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bitonci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u50	Mr President, we have known the problem of prison overcrowding for at least 40 years and so far it has not been resolved at all. It has been tried with three indults, which - I remember - the North League did not vote. Again, the solution has not been found because, not even two years after the last indult, as many as 20,000 prisoners have returned to prison. So, the problem of overcrowding is and remains. Of course, as Mr Casson said, it will not be resolved by this small measure or by the other one which is before the Commission for Justice. These are buffer measures that try to find solutions that are not optimal. For some time now we have been saying that, given the overcrowding that exists especially in the northern prisons (where, as we all know, the prison population is made up of as many as 65% of foreigners, both Community and non-EU), international agreements should be concluded for Community foreigners in order to ensure that they pay the penalty in their country of origin. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I think this would be an important solution, but the government is absolutely not moving in that direction. It would immediately solve a problem that has become very serious and has assumed the characteristics of the emergency, which cannot be overcome with such solutions. Why didn't you carry on those prison building projects that had been set up by the then Legist minister Castelli? We are talking about the problem of overcrowding, but nothing is being done to create new prisons. Instead, think of buffer measures such as these, which - as my colleagues have also said - will produce the effect that people who have committed even serious crimes, can serve the sentence at home, in front of a nice plasma television, or even can go out and walk around the city in an unpunished way, perhaps repeating the same heinous crimes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u51	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to speak in connection with what our Parent Company has just said, in order to highlight this serious problem. I would also like to make a brief presentation of an agenda, which we have tabled specifically on behalf of the Group of the North Legacy. The measure - which we continue to reiterate and insist on this concept - has an impact on testing, as it introduces a measure that is harmful because it does not take into account the need for penalties to be actually taken for granted, especially for particularly dangerous crimes and crimes, which create social alarm. Reconnecting with what my previous colleague said, we want above all to make the Government consider the need to have an effective structural and regime-based impact on the problem of prison overcrowding, insisting on continuing and further developing the policy of signing bilateral agreements with the countries of origin of foreign citizens detained in our prisons. It has been said how much it affects the presence of foreign prisoners in our prisons. An analysis carried out on the basis of the countries from which the foreign prisoners come, shows that as many as 40% of them could serve the sentence in the country of origin. So we ask that the Government, if it really wants to solve the problem of prison overcrowding, undertake to insist on carrying out and continuing policies of bilateral agreement with the countries of origin of foreign prisoners, so it would be able to resolve this long-standing problem immediately and effectively and concretely. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u53	Senator Scalia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u54	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law addresses a very serious emergency, which has cost us the condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights for violating the rule that prohibits torture and inhuman treatment, and it does so, unlike what the League claims, not yielding to the temptation of linear cuts or with measures such as indult and amnesty (which do not remove the causes of the problem and make this one destined to reappear with the same and very serious dimensions shortly afterwards), with structural solutions in terms of regulation and prison construction. I would like to say to my colleagues in the League that reaffirming the constitutional primacy of the reeducational purpose of the sentence, eliminating the automatisms and entrusting to the discretion of the magistrate the punitive treatment that must be able to be individualized, affects not only the consistency and the dimension of the prison population - the issue we are facing - but on the same overall social security. It is in fact a fact that, while the rate of relapse for those who exonerate the sentence in prison is 68 percent, this percentage falls to 19 percent for those who benefit from alternative measures to detention and falls even to 1% for those who are placed in the work circuit. It is a fact that photographs the peculiarity of our situation in relation to that of other European countries. It is a fact that the condemned admitted to alternative measures in England are 197,000, in Spain 111,000, in Germany 120,000, in France 123,000, while in Italy there are 13,000. We should, if anything, do more. We should remove the regulatory preclusions to access the alternative measures to prison provided for in Article 4- bis of the penitentiary order, stratified in the course of repeated interventions by the legislator induced by the social alarm caused by certain crimes, and bring the rule back to its original prevention ratio relating only to convicted crimes of mafia and terrorism, on the basis of the reasonable presumption of significant danger of those subjects, related to the continuing links with the criminal organisations of reference. We need to intervene in custody in prison. It has been said that over 40% of the prisoners are persons awaiting trial. These are people who, for our Constitution, must be presumed innocent and who are declared, to a large extent, at the outcome of the trial. We must intervene on Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, paragraph 3, adapting it to the calls that the Constitutional Court constantly makes to us, eliminating the legal presumptions of adequacy of the only protective custody in prison in the presence of the specified crimes and keeping it for the only crime of association of the mafia type (Article 416- bis of the Criminal Code, the only one that has passed the scrutiny of constitutionality of the Court). It is therefore necessary to entrust to the judge's assessment the task of determining whether there are no alternative measures to deal with the need for caution other than detention in prison, which must remain in our system as the extreme ratio. This issue cannot be the subject of a measure linked to an emerging logic, but it must be dealt with by means of a special bill which I hope Parliament will be able to deal with as soon as possible. It must be a law aimed at reaffirming the constitutional principles of the re-educational purpose of punishment and the exceptional nature of deprivation of liberty as a precautionary instrument. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u55	Senator Munerato, who will also present the G103 agenda during her speech, is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u56	Mr President, with the agenda G103 the North League intends to commit the Government to consider the need to influence the prison overcrowding by continuing and further developing the policy of signing bilateral agreements with countries of origin of foreign prisoners, with reference to the countries from which almost 40% of foreign prisoners come, in order to allow the same condemned in our country to serve the sentence in their country of origin. Unfortunately, we note that, with the establishment of a government made up of a strong left-wing majority, the usual problem always arises: we must free the criminals. The money for law enforcement that protects the citizen is reduced and criminals are put back into circulation. Let's call it empty prisons, call it indult, call it amnesty, but your goal is to free the criminals. You are concerned about the rights and dignity of prisoners and you are disinterested in ensuring the rights and dignity of the victims of the crimes committed by these criminals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I said left-wing government, but I remember that PdL and civic choice are also complicit. Do you not remember that more than 20 percent of prisoners released with severe penalty discounts returned to prison for repeating the same crime within a year? Recalling that almost 40% of the prisoners are foreigners, the North League is firmly convinced that they should serve their sentence in the country of origin. But you don't care much about that. It is easier to free criminals, who will then vote for you, than to protect honest citizens. Let's also give the housekeepers to non-EU citizens, who after two days will have already escaped to commit other crimes around Italy. For the sake of your friends, you're licensing criminals. Under that guise of false buonists you are only guaranteeing impunity for criminals and showing all your disinterest in honest citizens. Every day hundreds of illegals land on our coasts, not to mention thousands, who in a short time will be wandering around Italy without income and who, therefore, will have to snatch and become drug dealers to live and you have well thought of allowing these people to be free. You have presented this measure to solve the problem of overcrowding prisons but, in your opinion, is this the way to manage justice in a nation? Probably in this banana republic. Shame on the honest citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Senator Albano's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u57	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u58	Mr President, I will speak briefly because I will make most of the explanations of vote myself. I do not want to stress the purely technical aspects of this speech, because it is not easy. The comparison in the Commission was particular. There are people there who know the right and the procedure very well, and that is why I really call on everyone in this House to take into account what is actually being done. These measures are buffer measures which simply seek to reduce a major problem with small interventions, a problem which must not be dealt with in this way at all. There is still talk in the law of extending the powers of the Commissioner for Prison Building. New institutions must be built, all initiatives must be taken to solve the problem of prisons, but this is not the method. These are truly Italian solutions that will lead to Italian consequences. But I ask myself just one question: isn't it hypocritical to think about structuring the number of crimes according to the size of prisons and not the size of prisons according to the number of criminals? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u59	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u60	Mr President, the cold data provided by the Ministry of Justice describe a situation of serious emergency, with a surplus of the prison population of 20,000 places in 206 Italian penitentiaries, institutions that are too often dilapidated and inadequate. But overcrowding does not complete the serious emergency situation: we must add to it the lack of treatment activities, which should be the instrument for implementing the re-educational function of the sentence, as provided for in Article 27 of the Constitution. In fact, the lack of treatment contributes to an atonement of the condemnation in solitude, which all too often causes more than 71 suicides per year. We cannot therefore delude ourselves that we are faced with one of the many emergencies of our country, which can only be dealt with with by measures of clemency; rather, it is a structural problem that characterizes the prison and penal system of our country for 20 years. The 2010 prison plan is not enough and the conversion of Decree-Law No. 78 to our examination is not enough to restore a normality that is yes legal but first of all humanitarian and that concerns the safeguarding of human dignity, its rights, and it concerns the level of civilization that a modern country should guarantee to prisoners and those who work in prisons, such as the Prison Police Corps. However, these are the first steps. Prioritary is in fact the intervention aimed at avoiding the phenomenon of revolving doors, that is, too many entrances into prison for short periods, as well as the excessive recourse to protective custody: 40% of the prisoners are in fact awaiting final judgment, and of these 17% will be acquitted and will be entitled to compensation for unjust detention. Then, Italy's appeals and convictions by the European Court of Strasbourg for human rights violations appear to be due: over 14,000 complaints and 200 convictions. The reform of the justice system is urgent: reform for independent, efficient justice that can create that climate of trust and stability that is also the prerequisite for attracting productive investment. We therefore express our appreciation for this first legislative intervention amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the penitentiary order, in order to strengthen the eligibility and application of alternative measures to detention and to remove legal obstacles and automatisms of bans placed also recently, such as the constraint of the qualification of qualified or repeated relapse. However, the decree obliges the judge to arrange for house arrests to assess the suitability of the home to protect the victim when it comes to ill-treatment and violence in the family. The following measures have an important deterrent effect: the limitation of entry into prisons for short sentences, because detention in prison must be the extreme ratio, in order to prevent the penalty from creating the conditions for repeating deviant behaviour, as shown by the statistics of the detentions; the early release already in the execution order; the raising to four years of the limit for the eligibility to house detention; the extension of Article 21 of Law No 354 of 26 July 1975 for work outside paid also to cases of public utility and voluntary work; the repeal of automatic prohibitions; the increased powers to the magistrate to monitor for the provisional application of the benefits themselves. 20,000 posts will have to be released by order of the Court of Strasbourg's Torreggiani judgment by the spring of 2014. The horizon on which to work in the future, in order to overcome a current system of criminal execution that seems merely punitive and vaguely re-educative, must be that of turning towards justice that contributes to the development of a conscience of responsibility of the criminal, remedial towards the victim, but above all towards the community; a system that extends the testing both in the procedural and in criminal execution and that allows the individualization of the treatment also with forms of custody mitigated in differentiated prison circuits; a system where the prison is always less preventive and where the times of treatment and investigation are guarantee of the right process. These are the stages that are still waiting for us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u61	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u62	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a decree containing all the hypocrisy of a government that is incapable of making incisive choices in relation to prison overcrowding and the inadequacy of prison structures. Let's talk about the inadequacy of those who should make choices about the security of the country and give certain times to the action of justice, slow in the sentence and that fills the prisons with prisoners waiting for judgment. Do you want to open your eyes and bring back order, legality and justice, or does this Government want to confirm the constant of the "do not choose"? As my colleague has just pointed out in relation to overcrowded prisons, 40% of the prisoners are immigrants who are constantly deluded that they can have a better future in a country that can offer very little to the illegals who face the journeys of hope, recalled by that political part that is absent in the Chamber today (as you can see) that uses flag issues for their own benefit. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is the false illusion of a job that they can no longer have even our children and our families. Have you become aware of the real economic and social situation in our country? We need stricter penalties, certainty in their application, the courage to tackle the problem of irregular immigration by confirming the aggression linked to the condition of illegality, in order to effectively combat the emergence of social pockets of marginalized people, to whom as the only possibility remains that of criminals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] With what resources will the municipalities be able to give security to the territories, which you have already reduced to the bone with zero budgets or the Regions? Are we planning to undermine the few resources left for health and social security or law enforcement, which are now debased in their work? Or will you still fill the care centers to the end of inevitable crime? It is useless to empty prisons that will soon be overcrowded again, leading to an explosive situation of social conflicts. Consider as a concrete and effective example the incisive action of the then Minister of the North Maroni League: to block the problem before it becomes such. Concrete security measures had stopped the phenomenon of illegal immigration also hit those who used these immigrants for their own benefit, employers who exploited them and marginalized them. Discounting the penalty in the country of origin, the expulsion procedure and immediate repatriation are a protection and security for families who live in legality, respect the rules and therefore have the right to be respected by the institutions. Lords of the Government, have the courage to enter into agreements with the foreign States in order to have foreign nationals in their countries of origin served. Have the courage to make bold choices for the protection of your citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u63	Senator Rossi Maurizio, who will also present the G101 agenda in the course of his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I presented the G101 agenda to Decree-Law No 78 on the execution of the sentence to bring to the attention of the House and the Government also the very serious prison situation in Liguria, as an example for the whole of Italy. The figures of the Ligurian overcrowding (as of April 30, 2013) are dramatic: in Liguria there are 1,889 prisoners, of whom 72 women and 1,817 men; 781 are waiting for a final judgment and 1,107 are condemned. It is almost twice the regulatory capacity of the seven Ligurian surrounding houses (Sanremo, Imperia, Savona, Genova, Pontedecimo, Genova Marassi, Chiavari and La Spezia), which is attested overall on the thousand beds. In Liguria the presence of foreign prisoners remains very high (between 55 and 65% of those present depending on the institutions) and drug addicts (more than 30% of those present, compared to a national average of around 20%), while only 17% of those in prison work, moreover in institutional services, and more for a few hours a day. Inmates are not employed in work or useful to society (such as public utilities) and remain locked in the cell on average twenty hours a day, alternating between those who sit and stand for lack of space; this favors idleness in prison and the sharpening of tension, which turns into brawls, aggressions, suicides and suicide attempts, revolts and evasions. In turn, this creates harsh, difficult and stressful working conditions for the prison police, which we know are under the staff. In 2012, in the overcrowded Ligurian prisons, the prisoners became protagonists of 92 acts of self-harm (i.e. ingestion of foreign bodies such as nails, batteries, razor blades; cuts spread on the body and caused by razor blades) and 29 suicide attempts. 93 struggles and 19 injuries. There have been 5 escapes in Liguria by as many prisoners who have not returned to prison after having received premium permits and semi-freedom. In the course of the year, a total of 6,000 Liguria prisoners took place and participated in the many demonstrations of collective protests on the situation of overcrowding of the prisons and on critical intra-mural conditions. For prisoners to be able to work, a special law and political will are needed to do so. Statistics tell us that the sentenced person who expiates the sentence in prison has a relapse rate of 68.4% against 19 percent of those who have benefited from alternative measures and even 1% of those who are included in the production circuit. Another significant fact of Liguria concerns invisible prisons, i.e. alternative and security measures and other measures to replace detention, involving a total of over a thousand people in Liguria. Today we have in Liguria 448 people entrusted to the social services under test: of these, about 150 are drug addicts, 28 enjoy semi-freedom, 239 of house detention, 115 of probation and 214 of other measures, among which that of the work of public utility for the subjects (209) surprised to drive in drunken state. Knowing this very serious situation which concerns Liguria, but which obviously affects the whole of our country, I have presented the agenda G101, whose proposals are absolutely national. It is clear that serving the sentence outside prison, for those who have committed crimes of less alarm and severity, also has a fundamental social function. The use of alternative measures to the imprisonment and reintegration of persons detained through work is a valid, effective, safe and cost-effective tool to truly implement Article 27 of our Constitution: Penalty cannot consist of treatment contrary to the sense of humanity and must aim for the re-education of the condemned. In order to help reduce overcrowding and thus improve the living conditions of prisoners, consideration could also be given to allowing third-country nationals who commit crimes to serve their sentences in the country of origin and for drug addicts to spend their detention in therapeutic communities. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u65	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u66	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before I go into the substance of the measure, allow me to make three or four preliminary remarks. First, this decree-law does not solve at all the problem of prison overpopulation. At best, the Government expects the release of no more than 3,000-4,000 convicted, compared with about 20,000 total redundancies compared to the reception capacity of Italian prisons. Second consideration. The same Minister of Justice Chancellors, invoking the opportunity of a further - yet another and, I add, unfortunate - measure of amnesty or indult to soothe the serious problem of prison overcrowding, has indirectly signalled to us the overall ineffectiveness of this measure, which addresses the problem without resolving it. Third consideration. An important part of the decree-law on the execution of the sentence deals with an issue that has nothing to do with the execution of the sentence: the assignment of new tasks to the Extraordinary Government Commissioner for Prison Infrastructures. The word "extraordinary" is too often declined by this Government. This is an unfortunate choice that brings to mind, among other things, the well-known civil protection scandal. In Italy, unfortunately, the use of extraordinary interventions is a rule rather than an exception. The suspicion is that emergent situations can be created in art to take decisions by way of derogation from the rules. Fourth and final consideration. The government's choice to intervene by decree-law is certainly not justified by the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights as this measure does not address, only in a marginal way, prison overcrowding. This decree-law snatches this House and Parliament all of the role of initiative and, what is worse, the possibility of a proper confrontation with citizens on a subject that will change significantly the level of security of the Italians and that would require a much wider debate in our country. Perhaps it is not by chance that as many as 64 pages of amendments were made available only the evening before this measure arrived in the Chamber, that the opposition should not have that role as a critical controller of the activity of the majority which would have it by right. We would have liked, ladies and gentlemen, a very different measure from this to tackle the problem of overcrowding in prisons: we would have liked, for example, a plan to put in place the many prisons present on the territory that are currently unused; we would have liked some projects to make the prisoners work, which in the vast majority remain locked up for the great part of the day, what naturally favors the increase of tensions; we would have liked an extraordinary commitment of the Government - this is extraordinary - to give full effect to bilateral agreements with other States, which are there but do not work. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] , in order to allow more and more non-EU prisoners to serve their sentences in the countries of origin. But none of this has been done. On the contrary, Article 1 of the decree-law in conversion establishes a possible application of the early release and the possibility for the prosecutor to suspend the execution in order to give the sentenced person to request from the supervisory court, free, an alternative measure to the prison. Article 2, in summary, removes restrictive provisions concerning domestic detentions offenders. Article 3 allows the convicted drug addict to be admitted to work of public benefit in principle for all crimes, except those of greatest seriousness, referred to in Article 407, paragraph 2 (a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Article 4 extends the tasks assigned to the Government's Special Commissioner for Prison Infrastructure within the regulatory framework established by the decree of the President of the Republic No 207 of 3 December 2012, fully recalled by the Government. The Commissioner is given an increase in staff and the possibility of concluding fixed-term contracts. To this end, it should be recalled that the resources involved in the administration of the Commission are out of the budget as they are managed on the basis of special treasury accounts. The sums can therefore be managed by way of derogation from the mandatory principle of annuality, typical of the general accounts of the State. However, we do not see how, in spite of the clause of invariance, these resources can cope with the extension to 31 December 2014 and the additional functions of the office. Against ordinary legislation is the possibility of detachment and command of civil servants to the Commissioner, where it is expected that the administration of belonging will bear the costs for fundamental and ancillary treatment. As regards new fixed-term assumptions, they are not in line with the halving of the use of such contractual figures provided for in Decree-Law No 78 of 2010. In general, therefore, the whole of Article 4 refers to a maximum limit of expenditure whose coverage is identified in a chapter that the Senate Budget Service claims it has not identified. This results in very significant financial coverage problems for Article 5, which are not adequately removed by the technical report, despite the fact that the Accounting Act, in Article 17, provides that any non-variance clause is duly demonstrated. In conclusion, the 5 Star Movement, which has repeatedly criticized the use of the instrument of extraordinary and derogatory commissioners, intends to prevent the annual extension and extension of the powers of the Extraordinary Commissioner for Prisons. On the contrary, the Cinque Stelle Movement proposes to abolish the Government's Special Commissioner for Prison Infrastructure and to re-attribute the functions to the Head of the Department of Penitentiary Administration (DAP), who has already invested in this function in accordance with Article 44- bis of Decree-Law 207 of 2008. The reason for this proposal lies in the need not to resort, as a rule, to the extraordinary nature of the interventions. As early as 2008, the Extraordinary Commissioner was appointed, but then Law No 199 of 2010 and Decree-Law No 211 of 2011 introduced further measures to reduce overcrowding. In 2012, as a result of the reduction of available resources, the extraordinary plan was re-modulated, but so far it does not seem to have produced any significant results, as evidenced by the very existence of this decree. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Candiani and Mastrangeli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u67	Senator Granaiola is registered to speak, and during her speech she will also present the agenda for the G102 meeting. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u68	Mr President, in the Health Commission we examined the draft law in the consultative forum, but in the awareness and conviction that health issues, and therefore within our competence, could not be examined except from a parallel and cross-cutting perspective to social, legal and institutional issues. That is why we have auditioned the ANCI, the DAP and the Higher Institute of Penitentiary Health and the representatives of the permanent consultation table on penitentiary health. After these hearings, also following the opinion expressed in the Commission and while recognising that the decree-law under conversion represents a concrete step forward in improving the situation of Italian prisons, marked by an overcrowding already officially condemned and sanctioned by the Court of Strasbourg and the European Court of Human Rights as it is an unbearable situation for a civil country, we believe that there are still many things to do soon, to point out or to clarify that the provision of alternative penalties to detention is not that the first step towards the reordering of penitentiary health. Indeed, following the issuing of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 April 2008, which contained the modalities and criteria for the transfer to the National Health Service of health services, employment relations, financial resources and equipment in the field of penitentiary health, the situation of prisons, from a health point of view, risks becoming explosive. Since February 2009 the permanent consultation table on the implementation of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers mentioned above has been operational at the Unified State, Regions and Local Autonomous Conference. The Regions and the Municipalities, even in the course of hearings, have repeatedly called for the health issue not to be removed from the most general emergency prisons and for the identification of places of coordination between the different institutional levels involved. We have, therefore, presented an agenda in which the Government is asked for a further commitment compared to the provisions of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question in order to facilitate an improvement of the organisation of basic health services in the field of penitentiary health in accordance with the criteria of appropriateness and the need to ensure the health of prisoners in a network context. We have asked the Government to take care, as far as its competence is concerned and in collaboration with the Regions, that outpatient specialized assistance is in line with demand and supply rationalisation criteria by providing scheduled presences on the basis of the epidemiological evaluation of the prevailing diseases; to ensure that prisoners subject to a media and high-security regime, who need continuous assistance as they suffer from chronic diseases, are assisted in institutions able to combine health protection needs with those of safety, through the presence of health services with specialised personnel working in the 24-hours; to establish an interinstitutional liaison body at the central level, preferably in the unified Conference, which can be the seat where to agree the implementing instruments of the legislation aimed at addressing the problems of penitentiary health in relation to the wider issue of prison emergency. Finally, but not least, we call for a careful and continuous monitoring of the enforcement activities of the legislation for overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals, taking in a timely manner all necessary steps to avoid the need to resort again to urgent measures of extension of time limits, including the exercise of the substitute powers, ex Article 120, second paragraph, of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u69	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u70	Mr President, as a member of the Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group, although it is, as is well known, a force of opposition, we consider the underlying philosophy contained in the decree-law to be broadly positive. In this respect, I would like to stress that there is a clear difference between us and the other political opposition forces, whose arguments - as we shall try to explain - convince us very little. To us it seems that for the first time, after a few years, it has reversed or, at least, it has tried to reverse the tendency that has produced the enactment of a series of laws that have had as an inevitable consequence the filling up of Italian prisons, making that extraordinary instrument that was launched a few years ago (i.e. the indult) substantially insufficient. Moreover, I would like to say at once that we also share some of the concerns of these hours of the Union of Criminal Chambers with regard to the risk that the text of the Government may suffer in Parliament some setbacks that may diminish its ability to deal with the dramatic situation of overcrowding also on a subject which, moreover, is objectively sensitive, that is, the theme of repeated and specific recurrence. In any case, we think that this should be the first starting point, if I may say so, of a series of measures inspired by the same basic philosophy of the decree which is called for conversion. Therefore, we believe that in the course of the days and months that will come we can, and we must, from our point of view, also intervene on other laws. I am referring in particular to Fini-Giovanardi on drugs and to the immigration law, which, in our opinion, is the main cause of overcrowding, as well as having introduced legal principles in our system that are totally wrong from our point of view. This is why, during these days, we are committed as the Left Ecology Freedom to collect signatures on the three draft laws of popular initiative for justice and rights: the one that wants to introduce changes to the law on drugs, decriminalizing consumption and reducing the criminal impact, i.e. by remodulating the penalties and revising the access to recovery programs for drug addicts; the one for the legality and respect of the Constitution in prisons, which calls for the conversion of the penalty in case the available places were lacking, modifying also in this case the relapse, the system of benefits and access to alternative penalties; and the one, of which we have often discussed, whose lack is in our opinion a very serious anomaly of our legal system, concerning the introduction into the penal code of the crime of torture, as provided for by international conventions signed and ratified by our country. Exactly for the same reasons we also want to announce our support for some radical referendums, in particular the one concerning the repeal of the crime of clandestineness, which from our point of view is an aberrant crime because it punishes a condition rather than a conduct, and also to eliminate those rules that affect the precariousness of migrant workers. In short, for all these reasons that I have tried to say, let us look with favor at these measures that are taking place and also at those that are being discussed in the Senate and Chamber Justice Commissions in these days and that seem to want to finally go towards a different idea of contrasting crime, that is, trying to exploit those instruments, some of which, moreover, already present in juvenile legislation (this is the case, for example, of the testing, which is in the study of the parliamentary committees), capable of interrupting that so-called spiral of revolving doors, so that the repression of criminal activity through the prison fails to carry out either the re-education of the condemned, foreseen in our Constitution, or even its subtraction, precisely, from the spiral of delinquentiality. For these reasons we welcome the efforts made by the Government, which, while not distorting, of course, the current system, intends to achieve a lightening of our prison system, favouring the adoption of mechanisms of decarceration in relation to persons considered not to be of high danger, while, of course, remaining the need for the entry into prison of those sentenced to final punishment who have committed crimes of particular social alarm, namely - we have also prepared an amendment on this - is, in our opinion, different from the original text of the Government, certainly the forest fire. Let us consider and share in particular all those institutions which reward the prisoner who conducts a regular course in prison with a reduction of sentence, both the extension of the measure of house arrests and the extension of the possibility that the judge has to resort to alternative measures to prison, starting from the work of public utility. It also seems to us - and we will discuss it more widely later in the explanation of vote - that it is this basic inspiration that makes this decree acceptable, given our conviction, for many years now, that the laws recently introduced, instead, have gone in another direction. Think of a law never sufficiently criticized as the ex-Cirielli of 2005, from our point of view guaranteeing the limits of indulgence towards certain particular categories of persons and of crimes and instead executed to the end and unable to produce concrete results in particular towards the relapses, against which one imagined to be infiderire, as, among other things, it has been recently and authoritatively remembered, with a mechanism similar (perhaps some of you will remember) to what once existed in some American states, in particular, for example, in California, where having committed three consecutive crimes in one's life, regardless of the time that separated a crime from the other or even from the type of crime, caused very severe penalties, even to the life sentence. Following the adoption of that law and the combined provisions of the immigration and drug laws, the prison population has increased in our country in a few years of more than a third, from about 40,000 prisoners to about 60,000 today, in a condition such as the Italian one in which the tolerated capacity could reach a maximum of 45,000 people. This situation, in addition to the important work done in recent years by the Ombudsman and also by the associations that have been fighting meritoriously for the rights of the population held, has determined, as has also been mentioned in this House this morning, the reaction of Europe, and in particular of the European Court of Human Rights, with respect to the hundreds of appeals that have been lodged. As you know, the Court of Strasbourg has not confined itself to a declaration of condemnation of Italy, but it has issued a real pilot judgment, with which our State has been granted a period of one year within which the necessary measures will have to be taken to remedy the found violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which establishes the prohibition of inhuman or degrading punishment or treatment, an element which increases the perception of the seriousness of the phenomenon that induces the European Court to prefer the path of assigning a time limit instead of that, which is useless to the practical effects, of a statute of condemnation against Italy. As has been authoritatively recalled, three years after the Sulejmanovic judgment Italy, with the Torreggiani pilot judgment, has returned to the center of attention of the Court of Strasbourg and, as my fellow senators know well, in 2010, at the time of the first sentence, the prison population amounted to 67,000 prisoners, divided into 206 institutes of punishment, against - as I have already said - the 45,000 places of maximum capacity, so as to determine an overcrowding of 150 percent and the interventions that were foreseen at the time under the prison plan that was imagined to contain the phenomenon, have so far proved to be completely ineffective in combating precisely the problem of overcrowding, so much so that two years later, in 2012, the prison population had decreased, compared to 2010, by only 1,500 people, while the percentage of prisoners subjected to preventive imprisonment remained very high, i.e. awaiting judgment, equal to about 40 percent. I would like to conclude by referring to the following explanation of vote, saying that the only real cause for regret for us is that the Government and Parliament have spoken on this matter more on the basis of European stringent legislation than on the basis of their own deep conviction. This is regrettable, and yet we think that this decree can be, if certainly not the solution, at least a first step to counter an exceptional situation that also requires exceptional instruments, starting, in our opinion, also from the amnesty itself, of which we will discuss in other places and on other occasions. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Fornaro and Manconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u71	Senator Barani is enrolled to speak, who will also present the G100 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u72	Mr. President, I'll start where Senator De Cristofaro ended. Adult and amnesty are now two essential moments from which the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies can no longer be avoided. I always start from the last comment of my colleague who spoke of the European Court of Human Rights, who has repeatedly accepted appeals from the proposers, especially with regard to matters relating to the administration of justice, for example with regard to the length of the trials. I would like to point out that this costs Italy - Mr Undersecretary, if you note it - EUR 31 billion. This evil justice - Mr. Undersecretary, tell your Minister Chancellors - costs EUR 31 billion, official figures. Appeals were also accepted with regard to the state of the penitentiary institutions, which are real lagers. I will demonstrate at the end of my speech that there is little difference between how internees were in concentration camps in the last world war and what is happening here. What is the difference between our prisons, those of Auschwitz or those of the Piombi of the Venetian Republic? The colleague referred to the judgment in Torreggiani and others in Italy, which is one of the last judgments in this matter. For reasons of overcrowding in prison and, more generally, the conditions under which the claimants have dealt with detention, the Court found, Mr. Undersecretary, a violation of Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. Mr Undersecretary, I see you are talking to the President of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, and I am pleased that you are debating what I am saying and what we must be ashamed of. Article 3 of the European Convention states: No one may be subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The Court, ruling in favour of the applicants on the Torreggiani case, established an economic compensation against them against Italian citizens. The Court, in fact, has established that: the applicants have suffered certain moral damage due to the bad conditions in which they faced detention: as in Auschwitz, as in the Piombi of Venice. The Court also ruled that Italy should institute an action or set of effective and appropriate internal actions to offer adequate and sufficient reparation in the event of prison overcrowding. Bad justice costs us, in addition to 31 billion euros of slowness, a point of GDP, which, I remember for those who are not familiar with it, corresponds to about 15 billion euros. A specific weight far from indifferent take on compensation for the damages from unjust detention and for the moral damages due to prison conditions. I allow myself to give some data from war bulletin: the prisoners are 67,000; the beds 45,000, but those with the structural and sanitary suitability are 33,000, therefore a quarter less; the foreign prisoners are 24,000; the drug addicts are 35 percent, 20,000; those in custody, 42 percent of the prison population, are about 26,000, of which 13,000 will be recognized innocent. We have put 13,000 people in prison every year and then turned out to be innocent: what a shame, Mr. Undersecretary! Tell your minister: you can't go on. Average overcrowding is 140%: what are we talking about? Puglia has 180 percent, Liguria 175, with the European average being 99%. Last year there were 60 suicides in prison: I think there are six and seven times the European average. Today is July 23rd; I remember that twenty years ago there was a man who was killed at home, because he had to be imprisoned: Raul Gardini. He did not commit suicide, they committed suicide, because they were afraid that he would talk about the lobby of economic journalists, who, of course, piloted the various partitions of the markets, on one side or on the other, because he did not have to tell who he had brought, to the Dark Stores, the billion lire in the briefcase, whether on the second or the third or the fourth floor. At Bettino Craxi, who in this House has reminded us of the pride with which Italy looked at Europe and the United States in the story of Sigonella, the criterion of "could not fail to know." Instead, the testimony of those who carried the money and said they did not know if the money had been left on the second or third floor was treated in another way, and of course, those who witnessed this amnesia were first made senator at Mugello and then Minister of Public Works. Then they joined him, instead of the Socialists, in 2008 with Italy of Values, leaving Boselli and the Socialists out of that appearance. Of course, that cost that party, which had to pay for years, obviously disengage and therefore help him in every way to not have suffered the treatment he deserved at that time. Mr President, it is thought that the average overcrowding rate is 140% and that 42% of prisoners are awaiting trial. And already in 1999 the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, with the adoption of recommendation Rec R (99)22, called on the States and Italy to urge prosecutors and judges, Mr Undersecretary, to use as much as possible alternative measures to detention and to limit the use of imprisonment, both for reasons related to rights and for matters related solely to the prison emergency: not for the emergency, says this recommendation (and you know that the recommendations are law for us), not for overcrowding, but for the rights that must be guaranteed. The above recommendation points out that enlargement of the penitentiary park should rather be an exceptional measure because, in general, it is not suitable to offer a lasting solution to the problem of overcrowding. It is appropriate to provide for an appropriate set of sanctions and measures applied in the community, possibly graduated in terms of seriousness, and, in addition, the Secretary-General says: "Member States should consider decriminalising certain types of crime or requalifying them in such a way that they do not require the application of deprivation of liberty." This measure therefore follows the European guidelines which we have signed as a Member State and which we cannot ignore. We cannot ignore why it is right to consider the two Kazakh women, the mother and the daughter, who have been outraged by their rights; but it is equally right to think of the 67,000 prisoners who have the same rights. We cannot, therefore, speculate for two people, even though our battle in their defense is necessary, and forget another 67,000. Moreover, the decree also intervenes in an incidental way on the long-standing problem of the certainty of the penalty which, unfortunately, is often inapplicable due to structural deficits or inadequate legislation because it is not up to date. To safeguard the certainty of the penalty, measures (and this decree contains some of them) are needed to ensure its effectiveness, while at the same time not violating the rights guaranteed by our Constitution, by the Treaties, by the agreements and by the European conventions. Let us not forget that, in addition to its merely punitive function, the sanction also wants to fulfil the task of re-educating and rehabilitating the guilty person who, however - it is worth pointing out - always maintains some of the fundamental rights that the Constitution guarantees him. We can't throw the Constitution wherever we want. President Manconi, by guiding the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, you have the responsibility to promote the application of the Constitution in order to safeguard all human rights, at all levels and at all levels. As well as those who are subject to restrictive measures of personal freedom, the provisions of Law No 354 of 1975 on penitentiary law must be ensured. If the state of Italian prisons is unable to ensure the target imposed by Italian and European legislation, then we, who are responsible for the legislative power, remain able to look at this situation from a distance, without intervening effectively and in depth, we are responsible for the continuing violations of the rights of prisoners, who are primarily citizens, and then human beings. Already this morning, having raised a question for a preliminary ruling - I am addressing those who voted for it - goes in the opposite direction to the Constitution and human dignity: it goes in the sense of totalitarian regimes. What is the difference - I have already said - between Nazi-fascist lagers, communist gulags and our prisons? None, because in all there is the transmission of infectious diffuse diseases, with inmates who are caught from tuberculosis to hepatitis A, B and C, to typhus and paratiphus and now, unlike those times, also AIDS. In addition to the psychological issues, in fact, in this overcrowding prisoners are also left at the mercy of personal violence that is done on those who do not subject to certain rules of the bosses. Mr President, I continue to explain what is an agenda that I believe is important. It is an agenda with which I invite the Government to take into account the Second General Report of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Penalty or Treatment (CPT), which spoke about the issue of overcrowding. Mr Undersecretary, you and the rapporteur have already given a favourable opinion on this agenda in the Commission and for this reason I thank you, and I hope - and I hope - that the magistrates' racket has not changed your opinion, or else I should launch the challenge glove in the middle of this House, because we socialists are not going back in front of anyone: we have freed Italy from the fascists and we are able to free it also from the Catholic judges. All services and activities in prison are negatively affected by the need to take on more prisoners than the one for which the institution was designed: the overall quality of life in an institution also falls significantly; furthermore, the level of overcrowding in prison, or in a particular part of it, could be such as to be inhuman and degrading from a physical point of view. Therefore, Articles 3 and 32 of the Constitution lead me to this agenda G100, which invites the Government to consider a legislative hypothesis that will punish any of the competent authorities, that disposes or allows the atonement of the prison sentence in which the legal provisions are not respected, or that does not allow the actual rehabilitation and re-education of the condemned for structural and sanitary inability or, finally, that exposes the prisoner, for the same causes, to contract psycho-physical diseases or infectious-diffusive diseases. Anyone who allows this, according to Article 608 of the Criminal Code, must be closed down for up to thirty months (and I also invite the Government to provide a fine of 50,000 euros). So far this article of the penal code has never been applied. Do you know why, Mr. Undersecretary? The 30 months of imprisonment should be done by the magistrates who put people in prison in these conditions: this is what our penal code says. Then why doesn't it apply? It is a caste of people who earn more, have twice as many months of vacation, make one or two sentences a year and do not pay for the mistakes they make, even deliberately, as I said before with reference to the case Raul Gardini, to protect and to allow the media-judicial coup perpetrated in Italy. [[Applause from Senators Manconi and D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u73	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u74	Mr President, at this stage of the general debate, I will only make a few general comments because, as far as the substance is concerned, I have partly spoken in the initial discussion of the question of constitutionality. First of all, I would like to point out that the prison emergency is serious within a criminal system that is already in a state of emergency. I would almost have to remind myself here of the paradox that we should intervene with decree-law to settle the criminal trial and the entire criminal system that is going to unravel. The situation is close to failure, so it would need deep radical interventions, with a view to greater efficiency, functionality and respect of the person in all its various stages. The fact that the Government now intervenes with a decree-law in the matter of execution of the sentence I consider to some extent a due act. It is precisely the terminal segment of the procedural and criminal system that represents the maximum figure of suffering, a real urgency. I also think it is necessary to think more clearly and in depth about intervening on the beginning of the procedural system. I say this because I am deeply convinced of the need to achieve profound changes to our penal code, which - let us remember again - in its original approach dates back to 1930, to the code Rocco-Mussolini. From that very point of view, which is proper to the decree-law in our examination, we have already presented, and we are discussing it in the Justice Commission, draft laws aimed at modifying the criminal system and the penal code by intervening - for example - in the matter of decriminalization, in order to act on the facts that give rise to a real social alarm. There are a number of situations that do not give rise to social concern and for which it would be more appropriate to intervene with sanctions and processes of a different kind than those of a criminal nature. On the contrary, up to this moment, we have limited ourselves - although, I must say, not on the part of all the governments that have succeeded each other in the last ten to twelve years - to thinking only of emergency issues, of individual personal issues, certainly not those that characterize the whole system. I quote, for example, the subject of decriminalization and the need to review certain criminal norms, the persistence of the deleterious effects of the laws Bossi-Fini and Fini-Giovanardi. In addition to intervening on the criminal system, I believe it is appropriate - as we have proposed, and there are already proposals in the Senate's Justice Commission - to intervene on the Code of Criminal Procedure, that is to say on those measures leading to protective custody and prison. Yeah, we're talking about it. During the various stages of the parliamentary debate between the House and the Senate, discussions were held, expressed evaluations, and in some cases there were also votes, on alternative measures to prison, on house detention, on the institution of testing, on the need - for example - to allow the work as much as possible, as we are doing today within the measure under consideration. I am convinced that, if one were to decide to intervene on all these aspects of the criminal system as a whole, one could eventually also reason in the matter of indult, as some senator has proposed; certainly not at this time and in this situation: we are not in a position to intervene with such radical and heavy measures that could only cause damage to what would be the intention. As we have seen from the indult measure adopted in 2006, there has been a slight sigh of relief for a few months, but then the situation has returned to the previous one. Therefore, if you want to intervene in the criminal and prison systems, you can intervene in the root, in depth, in a very wide way and, once you go to regime all the measures, some of which I remember, you will be able to reason from the perspective more than amnesty - but perhaps also for that - especially of the indult. During my first speech, I spoke of the need to think about resolving the issue of overcrowding. It is, in particular, a human and social profile that must be taken into account. There are absolutely shameful prison situations, starting with that of Rome, with the Regina Coeli prison, but we can also think of other prisons in the national territory that are in an unverbly, unworthy situation of any human being, even if condemned. From this point of view, action must be taken. These are very serious injuries to the fundamental rights of the person, not by chance condemned repeatedly by both the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Strasbourg. Therefore, this must require us to support the Government's provision, even if in this respect, in my view, it is still a timid measure, still limited, because it may give relief in certain situations but it will certainly not solve the problem of the criminal system as a whole. There is no doubt that this decree-law will have a deflagrant effect on the prison population and will allow, as it were, to rebalance the executive system of the sentence, in particular by eliminating at least a part of those rigid and meaningless automatisms that had been placed in the perspective of a social defense, moreover misinterpreted. For other mechanisms, which remain, we have formulated and presented the agenda G1,100 aimed at overcoming the rigidities and meeting those situations, including imprisonment, which do not give rise to a social alarm and which are determined more than anything else by a flow of water without taking decisive action, as well as certain cases would deserve. We are therefore entering on the basis and in the wake of the work carried out in the Commission - which has not always seen a linearity but a departure from the Commission's decisions - by presenting some amending proposals aimed at supplementing the measures adopted by the Government, which will be illustrated this afternoon when we begin the examination of the articles. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u75	Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u76	Mr President, I have no habit of speaking in this House (this is the second time I have done so), but I have some experience in nine years of the European Parliament, so I will try to save the thirteen minutes I have been allowed to make my speech by buying the House time and trying to surprise my colleagues and the President if I can be synthetic. In short, I would like to express the main points of the measure and, subsequently, the reasons why I think it is appropriate to support it. As everyone has said so far, this regulatory intervention is urgent in order to face a dramatic case of prison overcrowding resulting from the inadequacy of the structures and also, perhaps, an excessive insistence in the application, almost exclusively or mainly, of prison sanctions instead of others that could be developed. In fact, already from Article 1 this measure intervenes by modifying the articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing to widen the scope of the application of house arrests and also the suspension of orders for the execution of prison sentences. Therefore, the ratio of this legislation is clear: a deflective effect certainly attainable with this intervention. As has already been represented by my previous colleagues, and last reiterated by Senator Casson, there are rigidities which impose these provisions and which no longer have much meaning from the point of view of so-called social defence; they are rather traditions for which for a rule (let me give an example for all) those who have already reported convictions, regardless of the seriousness or the type of crime they have committed, just because they are in this condition, cannot be admitted to use this legislation retroactively. Article 2 deals with the penitentiary system, and in this case too there have been plans to extend the possibility of applying house detention; some foreclosures to alternative measures to detention have been eliminated, also recovering the constitutional concept of the reeducational purpose of the sentence (which can best be developed thanks to this possibility). I would like to mention, in particular, voluntary and free participation in projects of social benefit to public bodies or social assistance and voluntary organisations for prisoners themselves. Article 3 also provides that this possibility is also offered to the convicted drug addict (who was previously not admitted to this type of Redemption Path). Article 4 commendably extends the interventions that can be carried out by the government's special commissioner for prison infrastructure. Article 5 retraces the economic criteria recalled a little 'by all the interventions of the last Governments (the previous and the current ones) and states that the provisions of this provision do not have to burden further on the coffers of the State, but uses the means available. Article 6 deals with the beginning - almost ordinary - of intervention. After this brief summary, I would like to explain why we are in favour of this line and summarize it in three fundamental arguments. First of all, it has already been pointed out that the overcrowding of prisons and the tension present within institutions is a fact; the insufficiency of the current discipline is so evident that the state of national emergency has been declared (even provided for by a decree of the President of the Council). Secondly, the law of 26 November 2010, n. 199, which tried to intervene further, has proved inadequate, so much so that the numbers that the European Court of Human Rights has meant to represent - precisely - the tension of the Italian prison system are evident; some colleagues have already mentioned them, but it is useful to repeat them: in 2010 there were 67,961 people held in 206 Italian prisons, compared with 45,000 people entitled under adequate housing conditions, or at least not beyond the limits of human dignity (the percentage, therefore, of overtaking was 151 percent); two years later only 3 percentage points of reduction were recorded. There is therefore absolutely insufficient legislation: only 1,300 prisoners and three points less in two years. These data are in line with those published by the Ministry of Justice and can therefore be considered to be appropriate. The third and final point concerns the European Court, which, in its judgment of 8 January 2013, noted - we regret to admit this in this House, but it is a fact - the violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and gave the Italian State a period of one year within which to take the necessary measures to remedy it. Interesting points to characterize this orientation, in addition to the aforementioned judgment, are also found in the Recommendation of the basic principles to be adopted by the governments of the Member States in the matter of overcrowding prisons and prison infiltration, which have all been used in the argument and drafting of the measure under consideration. Briefly list them: the deprivation of liberty should be considered as a measure of last resort, where it is absolutely essential; the extension of the prison park - so to speak - should be considered an exceptional measure and not suitable for the purpose, and rather a different motivation should be provided in order to pay the penalties, giving impetus to a different criterion of assessment by the judges in order to resort to detention as little as possible, if not precisely for reasons of necessity and social defence. Member States should examine - and I quote - the possibility of decriminalizing certain types of crime and requalifying them, so as to avoid the application of deprivation of liberty. Therefore, in line with these principles, which call us back to the legal civilization of our country, together with our belonging to the European Union, with much conviction and much hope we want to express our assent to the measure under consideration. I think I've fulfilled my promise to intervene for less than 13 minutes. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u77	Thank you for that, too. Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u78	Mr President, the reactions of my fellow Members, the House that rebels against a measure, which is a moderate and weak obstructionism, are a signal to which we must pay attention. At times politicians and parliamentarians are accused of not being linked to real life, to territories, to the real situation that people and citizens live in, but this time - as has happened before for similar measures - we are doing badly, we are risking: we are really gathering what people tell us, who tell us citizens, because there is concern due both to communication and to the exasperation of problems, both at the moment of crisis and for many other reasons. There is a real problem, a real problem, that is, overcrowding in prisons: it is not a novelty, it is not a question that we are facing now because it has emerged for a few days or a few weeks; it is a ten-year problem, it is a problem that comes from the past, to solve which very few things have been done, both from the right and from the left (we are not going to tergiverse on these topics). It is a real problem: overcrowding is a real problem, it is a real problem that non-EUs represent the majority of prisoners, it is a real problem the lack of atonement of the penalty, it is a real problem the lack of certainty of the penalty. A measure such as the one under consideration by a responsible Government was to be combined with another measure, which was the solution to this problem: yes to the construction of new prisons, yes to international agreements so that everyone goes to atone for the punishment in their own country; yes also to get the prisoners out of prison. Prison must be re-educational: I am convinced of this, or I should still be convinced, but unfortunately that is not the case. Along with this measure, if one wanted to get some prisoners out of prison, another concrete, real, real and tangible measure was to be presented, in which this solution was really realized: otherwise we do not go anywhere and sow only fear; otherwise they are only expedient. Among other things, these issues are then translated into the territories. This morning's news (we all read it on the Internet and on Facebook) tells us about two heroes, two mayors. The first is Mayor Laura Prati, who died as a result of the gesture we know: he is one of those 8,000 mayors (who I followed very modestly as Undersecretary with delegation to local authorities) one of those 8,000 heroes who are on the territory, who suffered the vile and violent aggression of a criminal and died, left us life. The second is the mayor of Ponteranica, Simone Aldegani, who I do not know personally, who was threatened, together with his family and his children, for a fine, for a violation. This is the tension that exists in the country and among the citizens. If we do not go along with measures like this, which leads out of criminal prisons, people who have wronged, something tangible, true, achievable and concrete, that can be communicated, not only do we not do well to the country, the population and the citizens, but we help to sow - this is the responsibility of the current Government - that tension, that panic and that aggressiveness that unfortunately even in these hours we have before us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ours is the tragedy of a country that is not serious: in this House there is a decree-law with which the Ministry of Justice is responsible for institutional tasks. We are not talking about extraordinary interventions, but simply about managing the inmates' entry and exit flows and a prison plan: is that why an extraordinary Commissioner is expected? Is this a serious country? In no Western country, serious and democratic, one could only think of something like this: to replace the Ministry of Justice with an extraordinary body for an absolutely normal and institutional task, Mr President. Let us be clear: this decree is the failure of politics, but it is also an act of hypocrisy. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that we want to use the extraordinary Commissioner's instrument, as has been well said by my colleagues. There is a whole page of derogations from EU procurement rules in the rules that provide for this: the Mafia and corruption are also being introduced into the prison plan. This is an unspeakable shame! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of the PD Group]] The use of extraordinary commissioners is an unspeakable shame! We know how they ended up over the years: there isn't one that didn't end up in front of the judiciary. We know that because the problem is not the Commissioner in general but as we have thought: to derogate from the rules of law. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on procurement has been designed and imposed on this country by the European Union, because our corruption has reached levels of guard that place us on the same level as a South American state. There is another hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. A couple of days ago, in violation of the Constitution, we did not sanction the work of a Minister and his Ministry, as provided for in Article 95 of the Constitution, who carried out an act of barbarism against a woman and a child. There are so many people in this House who tear their clothes off and make tearful speeches because they are concerned about the prisoners: with what courage do they do them, after ratifying the Minister's work last week? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I conclude, Mr President, with a statement on behalf of the Five Star Movement. This measure, carried out with an instrument, the decree-law, that Minister Letta had said during the programmatic declarations that he would not use or strongly reduced, represents an act of grave disloyalty towards Parliament and the opposition, and as such will be treated by the 5 Star Movement in the next sessions. Until now, we have made a fair and correct opposition, working together and voting on all the rules that seemed appropriate and right to us and proposing amendments. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are not even allowed to do the work of the opposition through the use of a decree-law which, as my previous colleagues have explained, has neither the requirements of urgency nor the requirements of exceptionality, because we have been fighting this problem for 30 years, then the 5 Star Movement will carry out another kind of opposition: the one to which you have forced us to do our duty to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u81	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary for justice, Mr Berretta, I take the floor without hiding satisfaction and optimism about the subject we are talking about today: the conversion into law of the decree-law on the execution of the sentence and emergency in Italian prisons. We come to this stage after an intense and fruitful debate and work in the Justice Commission, where the problem of prison overcrowding was certainly one of the issues that characterized the legislature. The emergency of the problem in question, as well as being witnessed by the facts that daily the chronicle describes us, is detected by serious and detailed data on the matter. This gravity is also underlined by Italy's continuing condemnations by the European Court of Justice of human rights. Strasbourg highlighted the absence of a prison building plan, stigmatizing Italian prison policy and the absence of appropriate decriminalisation rules and alternative measures. For the overcrowding of prisons our country is in third place in Europe; in front of us there are only Serbia and Greece. This is a reality that puts our instruments at the limit of legality, where a situation that is divergent from the rules persists because in most cases we are not able to guarantee what is provided for by the existing regulations and the prison regulations. According to the Ministry of Justice, after the 2006 Indult, the prison population rose from 61,264 prisoners in June to 39.005 in the same year; in the following years, after a rapid return to the pre-indult situation, attendance again increased, reaching 67,961 units in 2010. In the years 2011-2012, after an improvement in the capacity of the institutions and a slight decrease in the prison population, the most recent data have again increased: in February 2013, in fact, 65,906 prisoners were present in Italian prisons. Statistical data, with their figures, also represent the paradigm of the democratic civilization of each country and, in this sense, our data does not make us proud. In order to address this serious social problem for the country, in 2010 the Government, after the appointment in 2008 of an extraordinary commissioner, decided an extraordinary plan based on an articulated series of interventions, mainly of prison building, declaring the state of national emergency. The prison plan, which should have created about 18,000 new detention posts by 2012, was divided into four strands of interventions, at the base of which there was precisely the declaration of the state of emergency prison. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem we are dealing with is a very topical subject which challenges civil and political conscience. In addition to the above data, it is sufficient to add others to understand even more that we are faced with an emergency that made immediate and urgent answers necessary, concrete as well as effective. The alarming signs of this discomfort are also continuously provided by the growing protests of the prisoners, with thousands of hunger strikes and self-harmful acts, up to the numerous cases of suicide: Too many. Added to the overcrowding are the low costs of psychological care and cultural activities. Penitentiary Police personnel are also on staff. This situation clashes with the constitutional guarantee of the re-educational function of the sentence, so much so that over 65% of ex-convicts return to crime. A particularly significant element that makes us reflect is that of a prison population formed for two thirds by immigrants and drug addicts; they are weak groups of the now varied Italian society and people to whom a repressive attitude has been mostly a social damage. On this occasion, the prison plan, which provides for the construction of new structures, must surely be accompanied by a modern and different instrument for the social recovery of prisoners. The alternative to prison does not mean at all not serving the sentence, but replacing the prison sentence with a recovery of the person through services of social utility, as happens in the legal systems of Anglo-Saxon tradition. Obviously, the objective of the ruling political class cannot and must not be to fill the prisons, but to empty them and not only through the amnesties, of which it has been abused in the past, (and which should be done even today, given the state of emergency, together, as has been repeated, with the reforms of a substantial and procedural type; this if all political forces were to agree, beyond the impopularity of such measure) but also through a plan of decriminalization of minor crimes, (in our system there are many cases of crime) that is, the elimination from the codes of those crimes that raise little social alarm. In short, changing the legislation in this area is now a moral obligation and precisely in this direction goes the decree-law that will be converted into law. As I mentioned earlier, amnesty can also be an effective solution to the overcrowding of prisons in the emergency phases, but the problem must be solved radically at the base. I repeat that in addition to alternative measures to prison detention, decriminalisation is the best solution to the problem in question. I would like to stress the principle that a modern state must be rigorous in the application of the certainty of punishment and, at the same time, respectful of the rights that protect the dignity of the person, as of the entire civil society. I am sure that decriminalization, if well applied, would fully respond to these principles. Clearly, the principle of the effectiveness of the sentence cannot be eluded, but the reeducational function of the sentence, the close relationship between reeducation and the need for security must be underlined. After being sentenced a person is handed over to a place that is a context where many other people live together, including those who are predisposed to their care, where the path of reeducational treatment begins. In this delicate phase, the state can no longer reduce its policy to a mere segregation-assistantism action; in fact, at this stage the prison should be the extreme ratio of the punitive intervention. Already Francesco Carnelutti stated that: The criminal trial would have failed its purpose if even with the imposition of the right penalty the goal of the last re-embracing between society and the guilty party had not been achieved. The State should therefore intervene in different ways, with which even public and private entities, or associations, can work to achieve an integrated security, where the social integration of the condemned is mortgaged and the citizens and the territory are protected from the deviance of return, i.e. from relapse. Prisons remind us of the invisible cities Italo Calvino wrote about. In fact, the common thought is to consider them out of society; instead, I like to think of prison as part of society, as something that arises not outside the city, but within the city, in an integrated and constructive relationship with the social fabric in which it insists, where prisoners can be engaged in socially useful work. An illustrious sociologist, Loïc Wacquant, pointed out that prisoners who do not carry out any activity live that condition which is defined as neutralization of bodies, where they are parked in the worst way; as in Tolstoy's Resurrection, this is also an unknown humanity, which is also part of this world. I remember here the magistrate of surveillance of Lecce who recently qualified certain prison treatments due to overcrowding, degrading and detrimental to human dignity. In these aberrant circumstances we move from a social state to a penal state, and here I repeat again how prison represents an index of the degree of civilization of a country. In essence, prison-public service must be a place that produces collective security while respecting the human dignity of prisoners. On the subject, therefore, it would be necessary to start a reflection in order to rethink the short processes and the certainty of the penalty, providing better tools and greater resources. Stressing how the decree-law for the reform of the prison system offers itself as an indispensable instrument and, in some ways, decisive remembrance that it represents first of all an exceptional cultural change, a new orientation, but still unfinished. Today the punishment prevails over the treatment and time of the prison becomes an empty time, without opportunities for perspectives and meaning. A reflection is imposed with objectivity and without any preconception. You can't keep filling prisons without reasoning about the sense of punishment. Without questioning the principle of legality, existing institutions can be changed or revised. In my opinion, we do not need new prisons, but we need funds to do so to create jobs for prisoners and ex-cons. In society today there is a strong demand for security and in this situation answers must be given priority from prison. In this context, we must begin to work towards social reintegration, in order to give concrete answers to the citizens as well. It is therefore desirable that Parliament and the political forces continue to work and cooperate in this direction in order to reconstruct a situation that has been disintegrated, neglected and therefore failed for too long. This is to bring the situation back into the context of the democratic, and therefore civil, life of our country. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u84	Mr President, at the beginning of January the European Court of Human Rights condemned Italy in its judgment in Torreggiani and others for having subjected 7 prisoners to inhuman and degrading treatment in violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. They were imprisoned between Busto Arsizio and Piacenza in a space of three square meters each, less than the four square meters set as a minimum limit by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatments or Penalty. It was, as has been pointed out before, a pilot judgment: a kind of warning to comply with the requirements laid down before other heavier sanctions are imposed. Alongside this, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe itself had called, through many recommendations, for greater use to be made of alternative measures to detention and for regard deprivation of liberty as the extreme sanction to be reserved, as recommended in Recommendation No 22 of 1999, to cases where the seriousness of the crime is such as to render any other measure or sanction manifestly inadequate. This is not how prison sentences are used in Italy. Today, the prison population amounts to more than 65,000, compared to a capacity of 45,500 places; 45 percent of the prisoners are awaiting trial, half of which will be innocent; more than a third of the inmates are foreigners. There were fewer than 20,000 people who were executed outside the prison in 2012: less than half of those who were treated in the same way ten years earlier. With the measure under examination, therefore, some measures are put in place to lighten the prison demographic pressure and at the same time we try to approach the Italian detention system to that idea that our Cesare Beccaria had: a place where the certainty of the penalty, and not its cruelty, is to deter other crimes. The treatment paths are safeguarded for the very high percentage of convicted drug addicts; the cases of the so-called sliding doors are limited, the expensive, and often useless, stays in prison for a few days; the home detention of mothers, in some cases of fathers, with small children is facilitated. In short, there are deflated measures which also aim to make the application of the sentence a little more humane. But this is a step. Other rules wait to be approved to return to Italian prisons the profile of places of reeducation, and not of violation of human dignity: the modification of the law on drugs; the introduction of the crime of torture; the revision of the rules on immigration, with the abolition of the crime of clandestineness; the institution of the guarantor of prisoners. Together with these measures, it will be important to transpose as soon as possible the European Directive No 29 of 2012 on the rights, assistance and protection of victims of crime, because one of the worst side effects of the malfunctioning of Italian justice is the frequent and unmotivated contrast between the reasons for a justice respectful of the dignity of the guilty and the legitimate needs of the victims, often ignored and mocked by a justice that works sobbed and does not know how to guarantee over time a system of execution of human penalties and together reliable. All the more just are the pains, Beccaria wrote, the more sacred and inviolable is the security and the greater is the freedom that the sovereign preserves to his subjects: a teaching that can still be useful. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u85	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u88	D'ADDA (PD). [[The Assembly stands]] Mr President, Senators, Senators, Laura Prati, Mayor of Cardano al Campo, in the province of Varese, completed her earthly journey yesterday. With one last gesture of great generosity, as you wanted, the family gave some organs so that other people might have a new hope of life. Mr President, I trust in your sensitivity so that you can find a moment for a minute of silence in a perhaps less empty Chamber. It is, in fact, a mayor who dies, but not due to accidental causes. As you know, twenty days ago a city policeman, a homuncle suspended from his office for fraud and flawed in the performance of his duties, shot her and the deputy mayor during the time of reception of the citizens. The deputy mayor is alive, thankfully. Laura didn't, she didn't. We who knew her have read with great respect and participation the condolences of the highest offices of the State, those of our party and others who intervened, who recall the capable, honest and integerrime administrator, but always open to the needs of its fellow citizens, who precisely that fatal day, as usual, met in his office, without fear for intimidation whatsoever, which he had also received. We appreciate the memory of his competence, the result of a javetta that comes from afar and of authentic abilities: councilwoman, provincial, councilwoman, deputy mayor and mayor. We know of the committed woman, president of the provincial PD, responsible for women and women, at whose battles so many of us have begun, who also owe to her to be here, in the place where democracy must grow and be fulfilled. I know she would like to be remembered, too, as an anti-fascist woman, convinced and faithful to the Constitution. Today, however, let this House, which over time has heard many other speeches, spoken by people of far greater standing than mine, listen to simple and simple words. Let me tell you about a smile, set between two blue eyes and a blonde mass of hair: that smile of a woman enchanted, enthralled, but above all communicated. He couldn't talk, Laura, but you still knew how he felt. You could talk to her and you knew from that smile she was listening to and what she was thinking. We are talking about fatality, we are talking about madness, as if it were a journey accident among others, which will soon be forgotten, an extreme moment in difficult times, as I heard yesterday on television, trying not to hear; as if the continuous verbal violence and militant anti-politics, even swamped by academy or neutral media service at the service of the citizen, without analysis and attentive as much as ever to the curves of the polls, had no responsibility. Who's willing to make all the grass a bundle? Cui prodest, would you say? Who wants to get something out of this? We wait for answers and we will try to give them too. Do you ever want to see that the accident of the route is precisely that determined and ironic, tender and combative smile that those who loved it have lost forever? We won't allow it, Laura. We'll continue where you left off. We'll start from that night on feminicide, a few days before they chased you to shoot you and reach you where you were curled up - as you told me - incredulous before even scared, to come back and shoot you again and again. Let us today cry with your husband Pino and your children Massimo and Alessia. Let the rage against the one who made you this loud scream. Let us know you'll never leave us. Wherever you are, smile: whoever has had the fortune of your confidence will see and recognize that smile, wherever you play hide. Hello, sweetheart, friend and sister. Hello, mayor. From this House a hug and a tear, which remains in the heart and will never dry, all its life. We will build for you an indelible memory on our territory. We, the women, your friends, the ones that have always been your sisters, the ones that you led in this passage. Hello, Laura. Hello, my darling. A hug. [[Stretch applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u89	I already expressed my condolences to the family yesterday for this loss, on behalf of myself and the House. I now invite everyone to observe a moment of recollection and silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u92	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today I want to give voice to Italian citizens who are right in the south of the island of Pantelleria. We all know it: a place where mother nature has committed herself a little'more, where she has managed to combine the land with the sea, where she gets along and love the fire with the water, where you can appreciate a lake on the crater of an old volcano. It's a lovely place. But often it happens that, where perhaps Mother Nature puts more effort, man takes the same to make the same place less livable. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have not been born in Pantelleria for a few months now, because a measure by the health company in the Province of Trapani has abolished the birthplace of the island. Consider that in Pantelleria there were an average of 50 or 60 children a year. The application of a national directive, which sets the limit for having a birth point in at least 500 parts per year, is the reason for the deletion. Consider that in Pantelleria one arrives in two ways: either with six hours of ship, or by plane. Those who have been to Pantelleria know that often, due to the adverse weather-sea conditions, ships either do not depart from Trapani or remain docked in Pantelleria. Women who have to give birth receive assistance until the 32nd week; arrived at the 32nd week, the gynecologist on duty in Pantelleria invites women to move to the mainland. And think of the island Pantelleria: the mainland would be Sicily! At that point the woman goes on a check-up and then returns to Pantelleria again. Consider again that the serious problem arises from the fact that, normally, a child is born after 40 weeks but, with regard to transport, airlines can raise a pregnant woman until the 36th week, after which they can no longer do so. Otherwise you can move with the ship, but it takes six hours. So this cry of alarm, my speech which I wish to give a voice, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to the citizens of Pantheschi, intends to recognize the right dignity to the citizens of Pantelleria who live in their territory with extreme difficulties; it aims to give back dignity to a woman who wants to give birth to her child where she lives, to give back dignity to the fathers who want to see her child born on the island where they live. That is why I shall be presenting an urgent question which I shall put to your attention, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u95	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, after three years of work, the Public Prosecutor of Lucca has sentenced 42 defendants - 33 natural persons and 9 companies - in the framework of the investigation for the railway disaster in Viareggio in June 2009, the most serious ever occurred in Italy. As of November 13, the defendants will have to appear before the judge in order to defend themselves from the crimes contested: manslaughter, manslaughter, multiple manslaughter and multiple manslaughter, as well as, for some, violations of the rules on safety at work. On the bench of the accused there are the summits of the Ferrovie dello Stato, the managing director of the group, Mauro Moretti, and the managing directors of Italian Railway Network, Michele Mario Elia, and of Trenitalia, Vincenzo Soprano. The act of accusing the Public Prosecutor of Lucca and the investigation expose a reality made up of wagons carrying dangerous goods, checks on rotten axles carried out in twelve minutes, technical specifications relating to the removal of pickets taken by RFI in 2001 for commercial purposes only and not for the elimination of an element itself dangerous. I invite you to see, on the website of "Il Tirreno", the 3D reconstruction of the terrible incident made by the commission of ministerial investigation and the Directorate-General for the railway investigations of the Ministry of Transport. According to news of press, in the course of the preliminary hearing, a defense lawyer would have anticipated that the referral to judgment of the summits of Ferrovie dello Stato will in no way affect the assignments covered by managing directors and involved executives, and that is what could happen just on July 25 next in the assembly of the group Ferrovie dello Stato, called, among other things, to decide on the renewal of the mandate - the third - of Mauro Moretti as managing director of the group Ferrovie dello Stato. This morning I put an urgent question to the Minister for Infrastructure (the 3-00255), with which I ask whether it is appropriate to reconfirm the summits of Ferrovie dello Stato after the referral to trial by the Public Prosecutor of Lucca. I would ask you, Mr President, to ensure that this question is scheduled as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u96	All right, Senator Granaiola.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u99	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, yesterday, at the former Golden Lady in Gissi, Abruzzo, all the workers guarded the factory to prevent it being dismembered by the removal or removal of machinery. I feel physically close, as well as ideally, to them. With this speech in this Chamber, I am trying to highlight more of what is happening in that industrial area. Today, in the Senate, I renew our complete and total willingness to make definitive clarity on ambiguity, shadows and responsibility for the management of the Golden Lady agreements, obviously linked, as can also be seen from the events of these days, responsibility, disinterest and ministerial lightness. The closure of the plant in Gissi resulted in the dismissal of 382 workers, mostly women, as a result of the relocation of production in Serbia, as already operated for the Omsa of Faenza (which, moreover, is of the same ownership). At the Ministry of Economic Development, the proposal for a new industrialization of the Gissi site was unanimously agreed and shared. The 2013 Stability Act did not provide for the financing of training on the job which was the basis of the conversion agreement reached at the Ministry. For this reason, workers and workers are therefore forced to have a very long period of Cassa Integrazione. The proposals, together with the desire to find solutions also to the commitments of the different institutional levels, functional and rapid settlement of the new investors, were also signed by the unit for the management of disputes of the Ministry of Economic Development, by local politicians, by national and territorial trade union organizations of category (CGL, CISL and UIL), as well as by the union representatives unit and company. The 5 Star Movement - you know it and the workers know it - is the only opposition force in Parliament. It would be good - hence my invitation - for all the members of the Abruzzo Parliament to join us in the Movement, at least - as I did with a question to the Senate, whose answer I have been waiting for three months - to ask the Ministry of Labour to reconvene the same signatory parts of the minutes of the agreements signed, in order to recompose in a responsible, definitive, complete and certain way the framework of the commitments that appear from several parts, even in a serious and unilateral way, and to verify the procedures and activities put in place by Silda and New Trade. We are sure that only joint action within the framework of different political responsibilities can be of real help to workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-74.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.06 a.m.
