ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u1	The sitting is open (8.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u3	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, all members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are together in this House to remember and honour, on its 21st anniversary, the tragic attack in Via d'Amelio, in which were killed Judge Paolo Borsellino and the men of the escort of the State Police Agostino Catalano, Emanuela Loi, Eddie Walter Cosina, Claudio Traina and Vincenzo Li Muli. My thoughts, and I am sure the thoughts of all present, go to the families of men and women killed by that explosion. A special thought I want to address to the family all, but above all to the children of Paolo Borsellino, who a few weeks ago lost his mother, Agnese, a woman who for twenty years has put all her strength in seeking and defending the truth about the life and death of her husband Paul. I remember what it was like yesterday that July 19, 1992, when I learned about the killing. A little less than two months had passed since Falcone's death and Italy again lost a valiant magistrate, a faithful servant of the State. Paolo Borsellino sacrificed his life for ours to be better. He lived and worked for justice, considering it not only a profession, but, first of all, a mission. Today I want to remember not only the magistrate, with whom I was lucky enough to work, but also the man, whom I had the privilege of knowing and appreciating in his most intimate and personal qualities. I remember very well the year I met Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino. It was 1979. I was called to work with the maxi-process, and I felt honored, excited. I was excited because I knew I'd learn so much from them. Of the many days spent studying the acts, I cannot forget Paul's affection and support, his enthusiasm, the tenacity with which he faced his work every day, even though he knew that this - and he knew it - would cost him his life. For me he was a great teacher, always prodigal of suggestions, of clarification; always motivated to go ahead, with the serenity of a common citizen. The scent of his land of Sicily and the warmth of the people who began to come out of the shell of omerta represented lifeblood for him. In those years, the work of Falcone and Borsellino had the great merit of creating a cultural revolution, of moving the minds and consciences of all those who were no longer willing to passively accept the presence of the Mafia. The citizens began to understand that it was necessary to go ahead in the fight against the mob, without stopping in the face of intimidation and fears. The judiciary undertook to demonstrate to the public that the possibility of change, of salvation, was real and concrete. The words that Paolo Borsellino uttered a month after Falcone's death and a few days after his death are still a warning to everyone, starting with us sitting in this Chamber. Speaking at the Municipal Library in Palermo about the victims of the mob and his dear friend Giovanni, he said: They have died for all of us, for the wrongdoers. We owe them a great debt and we must pay them joyfully, continuing their work, doing our duty, respecting the laws, refusing to draw from the mob system also the benefits that we could personally, including aid, recommendations, jobs. We must continue their work by working with justice, testifying to the values in which we believe and in which we must believe even in the classrooms of justice, immediately cutting off all ties of interest, even those that seem most harmless to us, with any person carrying mafia interests, big or small, accepting in full this burdensome and beautiful heritage of spirit, demonstrating to ourselves and to the world that Falcone is alive. This is Paul's great inheritance, the inheritance he has left us. Twenty-one years later, in Sicily and Italy, there is certainly a greater social and political awareness of the problem. There are many successes in the fight against organised crime, many of the challenges still to be faced. This is the task to which all of us are called, this is the commitment to which we must keep faith in the name of the promises spoken before the martyred bodies of Paul and John. All of us, as members of this representative institution, have the task of promoting the reforms necessary to give the country concrete alternatives to lawlessness and oppression. Fighting the Mafia cannot be just a battle of ideals. We must intervene on the conditions of development, on the ability of the territories to attract investment and professional resources; we must give the magistrates the technical-legal tools and resources to fight the mafia also through the repression of related crimes, starting from corruption, fake budget, money laundering and self-recycling. We need to steal a whole generation of kids, who don't study and work, from the flattery of crime and power. Yesterday, on the eve of this anniversary, the Senate unanimously passed the law establishing the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, recognising the urgent need to give Parliament an important instrument of investigation and intervention. It is a signal that kindles the hope that Parliament can play its part in the search for truth and is a small, significant contribution to Paul's memory. In recent days, the House of Deputies has unanimously approved the amendment of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code on the political-mafia exchange, giving a response to the approximately 275,000 citizens who signed the campaign "Restart the future" promoted by Libera and signed by MPs and senators of all parliamentary groups. In order to give a further positive signal, a further contribution to the memory of the victims of the Mafia, I proceeded to assign to the Senate Justice Commission in the deliberating session the text approved by the House, in order to succeed, with the same sensitivity and the same speed demonstrated yesterday, to finally approve, as we had committed ourselves, the modification of 416-b before the summer break. Only if we can give concrete answers to the challenges posed by the fight against crime and the search for the truth can we say that we have honored the memory of Agostino Catalano, Emanuela Loi, Eddie Walter Cosina, Claudio Traina, Vincenzo Li Muli and Paolo Borsellino. I therefore propose a minute's recollection. (The House observed a minute's silence.) Let's get back to work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u6	Mr LETTA, President of the Council of Ministers. Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my support for your words, Mr President. These are very timely words on this day, in which the memory of the sacrifice of Paolo Borsellino and the agents of his escort returns to all of us. We were together two months ago in Palermo, Mr President, together with all the boys of the Italian schools who took part in the extraordinary cruise that took them to Palermo to remember the anniversary of the death of Judge Falcone and to remember, together with him, all the victims of the mob. The words you have spoken, Mr President, are words to which I also endorse the commitment to the future, and in particular the fact that the important recognition of that result, the approval by the House of the amendment of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, is a recognition that goes precisely in this logic and in this memory. The commitment that you have just confirmed here, Mr President, which is also our commitment to ensuring that the final approval of that measure arrives here in the Senate by the summer, I think it is the best response today to this reminder, which unites us all and which must see us all even more committed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on the motion of individual distrust 1-00110 against the Minister for the Interior, Mr Angelino Alfano. I call Senator Giarrusso to explain motion 110.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u8	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday some experts from the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights said that the actions of the Italian authorities violated the guarantees of fair trial and deprived Mrs Shalabayeva and her six-year-old daughter of their right to appeal against expulsion and to seek asylum. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the UN experts have expressed their concern that an extraordinary rendition - an international seizure - has taken place. In any other country, colleagues, already these few lines would have determined the immediate resignation of the Minister of the Interior and his definitive departure from politics. The Italian Refugee Council has also made the point that there is a very real risk that Mrs Shalabayeva will be able to undergo inhumane treatment in her country. Mr President, the 5 Star Movement believes that the expulsion of Mrs Shalabayeva and her child took place in the most complete disregard of all the internal and international norms governing and regulating the status of a foreign national in Italy. It is particularly serious for us of the Movement 5 Stars the violation by Article 10 of our Constitution - just what in these classrooms you want to change by majority blows - which provides that "The foreigner, who is prevented in his country the effective exercise of democratic freedoms guaranteed by the Italian Constitution, has the right - gentlemen: he has the right - to asylum in the territory of the Republic." No less serious is the violation of Article 19 of the Single Text of the provisions on immigration discipline; but even the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union of 26 September 2000 which, in Article 19, prohibits - ladies and gentlemen: prohibits - the removal, expulsion or extradition of a foreigner to a State in which there is a serious risk of being subjected to the death penalty, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The violation of all these rules, Mr President, has been recognized by the Ministry of the Interior itself which, unfortunately, only late, more than a month from the facts, has automatically revoked the decree of expulsion. All these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, are even more hateful, as these violations have been committed and perpetrated against an innocent woman and a six-year-old girl. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot hide behind so many twists of words and we have a duty to face the harsh and terrible reality. Our country, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Italy we love, has delivered by force and deception a six-year-old woman and child to a country whose Government is accused by all the major agencies of protecting human rights of practicing torture, the service, against opponents, dissidents and their families. Finally, on 18 April 2013, the European Parliament stated in a resolution stating that the Kazakh regime restricted the fundamental civil and political rights of its citizens, the freedom of assembly, expression and religion, imprisoning, without trial or after trial, the leader of the opposition, defenders of human rights, journalists, members of civil society and lawyers, including the dissolution of opposition parties and the closure and seizure of all independent media. This already gloomy picture was further aggravated by the European Parliament's finding that the Kazakh regime systematically engaged in retaliation and persecution against the families of political opponents. The European Parliament resolution - and I quote - calls on the European Union and the Member States to seek guarantees that protect journalists, opposition activists and human rights defenders and their families, Mr President, against any kind of personal threat, pressure or prosecution. This was well known for a long time, because it is not the first European Parliament resolution on human rights against Kazakhstan. I repeat, this situation has long been known. Ladies and gentlemen, this reprehensible and shameful action has cast a huge discredit on our country and our institutions. Mr President, the work of the Ministry of the Interior has made us ashamed of being Italian. We do not want to say these words, but we are forced to do so. There is no plausible justification for such fierce action against helpless and defenceless people, accused of any crime, of anything: a woman and a child, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We can't make excuses in front of this. Now, we can say that Article 95 of the Constitution states that: Ministers are collectively responsible for the acts of the Council of Ministers, and individually for the acts of their departments, Minister Alfano. You, for Article 95 of the Constitution, are responsible; to what extent it will certainly be established elsewhere, as it has been for Abu Omar, but you, in this Chamber, Mr Alfano, for our Constitution, are responsible for what has happened. Article 54 of the Constitution solemnly states that "All citizens have a duty to be faithful to the Republic and to observe its Constitution and laws," Minister for the Interior. The citizens, like you, who are entrusted with public functions, have a duty to carry out them with discipline and honor. I wonder, Mr Alfano, what discipline, what honor is there in abducting a helpless woman and a child with all that deployment of means. Please explain it to us in your own words in this House. There is no need, however, Minister, to call into question these rules in order to understand that the acts which have been perpetrated against these two poor women by a strong, enormous, masculine power, which continues to oppress women, are unjust acts which must be sanctioned. It is now said that our motion of no confidence is a political act and, as such, has been evaluated by the parties of the majority who should reject it. No, Mr President, it is not a political act: it is an act to give dignity to this country and to try to say that barbarism cannot stay in our country and that this is not Italy that we want. You see, Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we in this House today have a choice. We can choose whether to ratify what has happened, confirming the confidence after seeing the facts and assuming it ourselves, with our history, individually, all the responsibilities, in the light of the sun, before our citizens and the international community; or we can say that this is not Italy that we want. It is not a political act, Minister; it is not a political act, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: it is a brake on barbarity. The President of the Republic said that what happened was unspeakable. It is something that we could never have imagined could happen; it is something that, someone said, must never be verified again. We have a choice today. Let us make this choice, because - look, ladies and gentlemen - our voters will not ask us to account for it (which they will also do); the members of our parties will not ask us to account for it (which they will also ask us for): we will answer for this action, for all the days of our lives, in the face of our consciences, to which we will be alone to answer, and we will not run away. This is not a vote that will be forgotten in a few days, in a few months or years: here we will write, today, a horrible page of our history; or we can write a beautiful page, a page in which we say that these things cannot happen. I invite you to a reflection. It has been said that there is a state of necessity, that there is a crisis and that we cannot compromise your Government. But do you realize what demonic Pandora's box opens like this? If all this has been done towards a child and a woman out of mere economic interest, what will happen when the crisis gets worse? We must prevent this, because this is not a state of necessity, it is not something that we can accept. You, ladies and gentlemen, have today the opportunity to choose, to come out of this House with your head high, proud to have defended the name of our country and to have put an embarrassment on the barbarity that will strike all of us tomorrow. Mr. Alma and her daughter Alua didn't have that choice. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u9	I declare the debate open. He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u10	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the story of Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter Alua has now been rebuilt in all its aspects, so there is no need to come back here in detail. Or rather: it seems obvious that the reconstruction of this matter, as proposed in the Parliament's classrooms by Minister Alfano, presents empty spaces and very wide shadow areas, when it does not make clearly unreliable statements. To the point that those statements were almost immediately contradicted by the many elements that have been added over the days and that have made it possible to identify the real contours of this page really unhappy for our country. And I am not just referring to the statements of the Prefect Procaccini, to whose words we can also suspend judgment for a moment, although this particular is not really secondary. There's more. I want to draw attention here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to the cognitive blockade - to the words of the Chief of Police - which apparently would have taken over the public security authorities of our country, starting with their political summit. Well that block was so unhermetic that, as a newspaper rebuilt yesterday, at 20.01 p.m. on 31 May, that is, just an hour after Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter had left - or rather, sent back through a real rendition, as the United Nations itself said, with a plane sent by the authorities of Kazakhstan to that country, an ANSA agency was sent out that reported expulsion, including the detail that it was the wife of a political dissident opposed by President Kazakh. With the addition even of the very hard statement of the Italian lawyer of the lady whom we of course know. Here, we can really say that this last element can be considered the tombstone of the inconsistent version of the facts provided by Minister Alfano. However, let me tell you, it does not even do justice to personal political history and to the function of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whose late resistance to this affair, which was immediately shown, indeed by an ANSA agency in all its importance, is equally inexplicable. I believe that everything shows that we are in the presence of a very serious event, for our country and for its international prestige. Even for what appears to have been, according to a memorial of the Shalabayeva, the confidential treatment: an interrogation at the detention center continued for many hours, perhaps even without making her drink and eat, the hateful trick of forcing her to pursue the daughter taken in her arms by a police officer; all this, probably - to stay with the statements of the lady - after having asked for political asylum or at least, Mr President of the Council, as shown in Annex 12 in a police report, having declared her identity as wife of a political dissident in exile. This is all the more serious, because it is not clear whether we are here in the presence of a wrong, deplorable act, carried out by the security bodies knowingly, respecting the logical line of command that the Minister sees at his summit, or whether it was something else: a real, deliberate, conscious vacacatio. Or rather, the abandonment, the temporary eclipse of the political summit of that line of command: a circumstance that leads to the conclusion that instead of that summit, where the Minister of the Interior should have been there, the Kazakh authorities have placed themselves for as long as necessary. In fact, more exactly and even worse, it is as if a piece of national security had ended up in those days in the hands of the Kazakhs. We must not, I believe, add much: there is no country in the world that can tolerate that a Minister may remain a minute longer in his place once such a vulnus has occurred. And yet some questions should be asked. How can it be explained that this happened? With the Italian economic interests in Kazakhstan also on the skin of the wife and daughter of a dissident fought by the president of that country? That, moreover - it has been recalled - it is known - has repeatedly been tainted of violation of human rights and also of the massacre, never sufficiently remembered, of workers, of workers on strike, a few months ago, about a year ago. Even if you wanted to accept this doubt, you would have been more worthy, Minister, if you had invoked the reason of state. It was not that, correctly understood, the reason of State, as John Botero meant it: "It is news of the means of founding, preserving and expanding a domain." On the other hand, in this affair there has been rather news of means to disarm the authority of the laws of the state and international norms that protect political refugees, and not least the same reasons of humanity that should have informed the behaviour of the authorities at least with respect to the person of a six-year-old girl. But even if this were the case, if it had been the reason of state in the common sense that had moved the threads of this affair, then for even more pressing reasons the Minister of the Interior should assume political responsibility for what happened; and should draw the necessary consequences by resigning, rather than assuming the elusive profile that he had so far, by downloading his own decisions and omissions on the subordinates. It is now very clear, in fact, that the sequence of events, apparently disproportionate and inconsultable, which led to the outcome that we know, is not the product of errors and inefficiencies, but if anything it is the unhappy cloth produced by the hidden direction of what Norberto Bobbio called the invisible power: that is, the Government that, unlike the visible one acting in the light of the sun, acts in the penumbra or even deeper, in the darkness; a complex of actions, that is, that is, that most lends itself to conveying the reason of State bypassing the laws and legal safeguards placed to guarantee individuals against abuses. As you know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Norberto Bobbio called it the crypto-government. Then, perhaps, Mrs Shalabayeva's story is ascribed to this and, in the intentions of the protagonists, agents or agitators who were, perhaps had to remain buried in the folds of friendly political and economic relations with Kazakhstan. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Cristofaro, I invite you to conclude your speech. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I'm finishing up, ma'am. But there is a limit beyond which in a democracy even the invisible government by its nature cannot go and it is when the curtain is raised. Then it must be stopped and it must be done especially when compliance with the laws is at stake, as has been evident in the case of the performances conducted by the US authorities, which have also touched our country. No democratic state, once the veil reveals the face of the invisible power, can avoid responding to its acts in public opinion, if not at a very high price; and while any political actor is even minimally involved - in this case it is really out of place the'minimumly', if it is true what I said before - can claim to wash his hands of it. I would like to remind Norberto Bobbio again when, with the words of Giacomo Leopardi's "Zibaldone," he tells us that, in order to rise and awaken us, our first motion must be neither the esteem of the present things nor the pride, but the shame. It is in order to remedy the shame that Mr Alfano, with his work, has cast on democratic institutions and on the Republic that we today, as the Mixed Group and as a SEL member of this Group, ask this Parliament to distrust it. [[Applause from Senator Gambaro's Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, if we measure ourselves with the sentiments that go through so much of our country, we should say that today this House is called to a task that has almost the impossible. In fact, many Italians look to us in which distrust in politics as an effective tool for the construction of the common good is added today to the confusion and legitimate indignation for the unacceptable story of a mother and her daughter deprived of freedom, without respect for those we are fortunately accustomed to considering and guaranteeing as the most elementary human rights. To these citizens who ask us to be able to entrust themselves again and again to and trust the institutions, those institutions that would like from us more transparent, more efficient, more able to organize the development and social cohesion in favor in particular of the smallest and weakest, we propose a solution perhaps not immediately understandable and acceptable; a solution that reaffirms, however - as the Head of State recalled yesterday - the highest good of stability and commitment to overcome the economic crisis that gripes our country. It is our duty, then, to speak to the Italians with the language of truth and courage; the courage to admit that something abnormal has happened in this country; that they have allowed themselves to be carried out to diplomats and exponents of a foreign country incomprehensible pressures and interference even if framed, without hypocrisies, in complex relations with a strategic reality for our energy supplies; and that much must be reviewed in security services and in their chain of command, in order to prevent similar facts from being repeated outside the control of political authority. The courage - and I address Minister Alfano whose role of institutional balance and loyal support to the Government does not escape us - to say that in a normal context, in any other situation other than the economic-political emergency that our country is experiencing, his resignation would have been the main road and obliged. We are sure of his long political experience that he knows it too. We say this, however, recognizing that today, in this case, it is not correct to invoke objective responsibility and that we have no doubt about the conclusions of the report of the Head of Police that exclude any direct or indirect involvement of the Minister in the bullying of Casal Palocco. We add that it is hypocritical who today invokes an ordinary solution pretending to live in an equally ordinary and normal fringe of our country's life; that - as an authoritative commentator recalled - it would be absurd and counterproductive to provoke today a crisis of government and a further weakening of politics precisely because of an affair that has brought to light a dangerous imbalance between strong bureaucracy and weak politics. Finally, the courage to claim the pride of this Parliament which is sometimes working with extraordinary harmony (as President Grasso said yesterday, on the occasion of the institution of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission) and which in its vast majority is made up of people committed in recent weeks to fulfilling the commitment solemnly requested by President Napolitano on the day of his re-election: to give - despite the effort that it costs each of us to work in a different majority from that for which he asked for the vote - strength and support to a Government that has made the commitment to make our institutions more efficient, to approve a new electoral law, to relaunch the economy, to restore Italy's solidity and international credibility. To the many who ask us also in these hours the sense of being in an alliance so wide and therefore naturaliter destined to be subjected to tension and stress, I would like to continue to answer that thanks to this parliamentary majority and the Letta Government it was possible to start the process for the payment of debts of the public administration, allocate the funds for the Cassa Integrazione and the IMU, conclude the return from the infringement procedure, vote the start of the process of constitutional and electoral reforms. But I would like to add that, by putting all the effort to overcome difficult moments and - let's say - at risk of unpopularity like today, this majority and this Government will be able to favour more transparent and European rules for the financing of politics, investments for training, culture and research, deburocratization for the enterprises that only ask to be put in position to compete, concrete and immediate aid to the nine million poor who live among us, opportunities that give hope to young people whose passions and abilities risk to disappear without even having the time of a chance. And today - let me tell you - I would finally like to be able to promise to the Italians, on our behalf, that this Government will be capable of deep reforms where the Kazakh affair has shown there are too many flaws and, again, that this Government will be able to offer every possible assistance, to put pressure on the Government of Astana and hopefully bring back to Italy Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter. President Letta, in order for your Government to be able to do all this, there will be all the commitment, all the passion and all the courage of the democratic senators in order to convince the Italians together that hope in politics as a service must not be lost. That is why we shall vote no to the motion of no confidence in your Minister for the Interior. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u14	Illustrated President, distinguished colleagues, illustrious President of the Council and members of the Government, the story of which Minister Alfano was the protagonist represents one of the saddest pages - perhaps the point of no return - of the experience of the current Government and, more generally, of the political class represented by this Government. The adjectives that could be used to describe the work of Alfano are countless; however, voluntarily, it was intended to invoke the feeling of desolating sadness that emerges in seeing a glorious country as our reduced place of free raids of fanciful diplomats of dark Asian states, such as Kazakhstan, evidently authorized, or otherwise authorized, to dictate orders to our police forces, in full disregard of every elementary rule of law, even international. Certainly our dear Alfano, in these years, has not had much time to cultivate his legal studies, so busy assimilating the noble methodologies of the management of power to the court of Forza Italia and then the People of Freedom. It would be necessary, therefore, to be understanding of him for his absolute unpreparedness in this matter and for the evidently paternalistic attitude of the highest officials of the State Police, who probably, moved to compassion, would not have involved the Minister of the interior, avoiding the questions too demanding in relation to what, in a normal civil country, would have happened in the course of a practice as delicate as that which has concerned Mrs. Alma Shalabayeva and the little daughter Alua. Yet, despite proper understanding, Minister Alfano's version appears extremely incomplete, not to say largely not corresponding to the truth of the facts. On this point it is sufficient to recall the statements of the head of cabinet Procaccini and, even more so, those of the head of the police, Alessandro Pansa, who, during the parliamentary hearing, denouncing on the point openly Alfano, candidly admitted to having informed him of the Kazakh requests. There are many doubts and inconsistencies. Alfano said that he had been unaware of everything and that he had come to know the matter only because he was warned by Minister Bonino after the repatriation of Mrs Shalabayeva and her child. Yet, according to Procaccini, Alfano himself, of course well before repatriation, told him to deal with a delicate matter concerning the Kazakhs. And again, as already mentioned, the Head of the Police reported that he informed Minister Alfano of the affair, also denouncing the presence of "anomala" of supposed authorities of Kazakhstan in the offices of the police of Rome and the Viminale. However, beyond how the facts really went, it is clear that this was a very serious episode of "ministerial cries," a "pasticcio" that has seriously damaged the honour and dignity of Italy, giving the international community the image of a country from the Third World, where those who have power or money manage to get what they want, even on the skin of a poor child. This is an unacceptable offence for our country, for its glorious history and for its ancient moral and legal tradition. Someone has to answer for this. Faced with the gravity of the events, as yesterday denounced by the President of the Republic himself, Minister Alfano, as a true conductor, discharged all responsibility on his soldiers, i.e. on the officials of the Viminale and the police station in Rome. This attitude, indeed, is even more serious than the inability shown by Alfano in the management of the matter under consideration. The hypocrite escape from his responsibilities is the obvious sign of a political class without honor and courage, of a political class of old young people who find in this government its highest expression. The art of not deciding, of pulling to life, of the systematic postponement of any choice to avoid taking a clear position on the decisions to be taken are the "cifra" of this Government and represent the exact opposite of what the country needs. To all this is added, especially in this case, the absolute unpreparedness and inadequacy shown in the management of the State, an embarrassing form of "dilettantism" to the debauchery that, honestly, leaves without words. Yet someone continues to tell the Italians about how the political class of the current majority is actually the only one able to guarantee Italy an efficient and experienced Government. The facts show the exact opposite. This motion of no confidence cannot be voted on, which, in the absence of Mr Alfano's resignation, takes on the character of a genuine act of Parliament's due to the citizens. It is necessary to restore confidence and hope to this country through an efficient and integrated policy, capable of courageously imagining innovative solutions, combining development, rights and solidarity. The 5 Star Movement is the right answer, that of the real citizens who, daily, with their work, dream of building for themselves and for their families a better future. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u15	He is registered to speak Senator Giuseppe Esposito. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u16	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Ministers and Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, are we here today to discuss confidence in Minister Alfano or the Letta Government? The motions that have been presented to the Senate and the Chamber have been exhibited in these days in an instrumental and controversial way, often using them as clavas to break the political moment that we are living. It is a political demand which is primarily the result of disinformation and superficiality, which aims not to remove the Minister of the Interior, but to eliminate the policy of the whole Government. The motion that we are debating today stems from the disinformation of the media, some in particular, and from the superficiality of some officials of the State, not only of the Ministry of the Interior, but also of the Farnesina and the Ministry of Justice, who have not carried out their duty with diligence and attention. However, we are grateful to all the people of the State, who defend our democracy and our security on a daily basis, even at the risk of their own lives. President Letta, on the case of Mr Ablyazov, defined by some dissidents, exiles in Great Britain and bearer of freedom, while others consider him to be a fraudster, dangerous, armed, wanted with three arrest warrants from Interpol and Criminalpol, I do not believe that this morning is the time, nor is this the right instrument, to establish the truth about the matter. In this House, moreover, we have already heard the reconstruction of the Head of Police, who explained in a chronological and timely manner the events, the twists and grey areas still to be outlined on the matter, including the humanitarian ones related to the wife and daughter of the dissident. Mr Alfano, today we are debating you and your work, at least as indicated in the title of the motion on the agenda. Yet it is now clear to everyone that we are not dealing with individual mistrust in this House. A politician, the secretary of a party of ten million voters, a man who has always served the country with fairness, loyalty and skill in all the positions that he has previously held in recent years and that in particular in these last three months of Government has given all of himself for the growth and the good of Italy and Italians. This government, ladies and gentlemen, is every day under a constant and targeted attack, from the very moment it was formed. It is a Government of broad understanding that is also a Government that seeks to pacify, and will have to pacify, the different souls of the country and the different sensibilities, and that tries, not without difficulty, to ferry our Italy beyond a ruthless and unprecedented economic crisis. Over the last few months in the parliamentary classrooms we have had a lot of discussions, everyone has carried out their own battles, their own intentions and solutions to alleviate the sufferings of a crisis that has very often seemed to us to be without a way out. In these months both Parliament and the Government have worked together, sometimes with even tough clashes, sometimes with greater relaxation in tones and souls, always with the objective, but to find plausible answers in the interest of the country. There is still a lot to be done, but something has been done in these ninety days: we fought against the increase in VAT, to block the IMU, to create a new season of work and for a widespread growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. For the time being, we have travelled this path together, in the interests of our citizens, our businesses and the whole country. We still have a long way to go for constitutional reforms, the path of which has just begun. The commitment that we have all undertaken together, despite our differences, that in a normal political situation would have been insurmountable, as President Napolitano has pointed out several times, we must carry it forward consistently and we must often give up, all of us, our own and private interests. All of us in the PdL, senators, MPs and members of the Government, our leader Berlusconi, have demonstrated in recent months, and we will demonstrate in the future, that we believe in the recovery of Italy by engaging in the government program developed only ninety days ago. We will continue on this path of consolidation as well as on the road to the challenge of a better future in Europe and we will ignore those forces, movements and currents which, out of their own interest, would like to conclude this experience in advance and with it the hope of our citizens. This is my government, it is the government that will be able to pacify this country. We will be with you, President Letta (even if he is greeting) and we will also be with you, Angelino, always. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Albertini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u17	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u18	Mr President, I have only a few flashes in my time. In this institutional context, I believe that the very serious violation of human rights, the rights of individuals, in spite not only of domestic criminal law, but also of our constitutional rules and international law on personal freedom and the right of asylum, as well as the ban on the expulsion of persons in states such as Kazakhstan for torture and the death penalty, with further specific defiance of the 1989 UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In the initial phase of this scandal, I had appreciated the decisive and clear role played by the Italian President of the Council, who demanded all the truth, who had understood very well the gravity of the matter, not only at national level, but above all at international level, so much so that the European authorities have rightly asked us for it. The first institutional surprise occurred when the Minister of Interior Alfano was in charge of the investigation: but if a person, any person, is accused or even only suspected of being involved in any affair wrongly or rightly you will see), how can that same person be responsible for the investigations on itself? Tell me, host: is your wine good? (especially if the host, as in this case, has the strength of a Minister-Vice President of the Council). The second surprise came two days ago when Minister Alfano came to the Senate to tell the story of the bear: a scenery, an unacceptable pantomime. But how do you dump everything like that on the subordinates? On the state police? How does an Interior Minister read that report from the Chief of Police and, at the same time, how does he not pale? Or, if you prefer, not to blush with shame? How can he not understand, at the very least, if he really did not know anything, that he was teased and counted nothing? Not to be the boss at all, the institutional summit of the police, at which he has now lost face? But above all, how can you fail to understand, as anyone with a minimum of knowledge of the police mechanisms, that the facts absolutely cannot have been carried out in the way they have been told? The State Police (once the political office was said) is able to know everything about a person, and even more so about a character of the caliber of the dissident-researched Ablyazov. Even if it would have been enough and enough to click on the Internet or Google to have more news and information than those told to and from the Minister of the Interior. And the famous police archives, the official ones, the semi-official ones, and the ones that, despite everything, don't exist, what happened to them? For what reason was Kazakh ambassador and Kazakh police allowed to roam, in absolute freedom, as in the steppe, impudent and with protection, in the police and ministerial offices? Authorized by who? Not by a simple head of Digos or commissioner! And why were neither the Security Services nor the National Security Authority concerned in this case? Typical behaviors and closures from covert action. You see, in this scandal and in this figure of international proportions, you do not run away from the alternative: either the Minister knew, and then the responsibilities and consequences, even political ones, are serious, immediate and obvious; or the Minister did not know and then perhaps it is even worse, because this would mean having a very important, very delicate structure, such as the State Police, indeed a part of it, autonomous, out of control, capable of doing and undoing anything. So much for the many cops who every day, with sacrifice and well, do their job. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Gambaro.]] Personally and institutionally, I don't know what to wish for. However, for this second case, I would recall the text of the second paragraph of Article 95 of the Constitution: The Ministers shall be responsible... individually for the acts of their Department. No one can make an ostrich; no one can pretend anything; no one wants to be mocked. The shadows are still so thick. As an Italian citizen and as a Member of this Republic, all I ask is for full light to be shed. I ask and we ask the truth. Because democracy also means knowledge, transparency and government in the light of the sun. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini).]] Only a party bond in the matter of vote of confidence requires me to vote against the motion. Quousque tandem abutere...? [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u19	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike my previous colleague, Mr Casal Palocco's ugly breadcrumbs Group is, if Mr Casson so permits, much less superficial than his own. I would also like to take advantage of the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council in this Chamber to point out that we are at a very delicate time in our presence and in our international work. For the past month, it has been a matter of asserting, not only in Italy, an international political presence able to guarantee, to a lady and her daughter, the maximum possible quantity of human rights standards that we practice as Europeans, Westerners and, when necessary, with a low voice, Italians (as much sobriety as possible). What happened, instead, in Casal Palocco's ugly breadcrumbs? What happened to that fateful 26 May, the term a quo from which, as with some inelegance said my colleague Casson, Kazakh diplomacy began to sweep at the top of our security system, until playing cat and mouse with such apparatus (ahimè, with discreet results)? From this point of view, colleagues who have tabled the motion, we consider your motion to be instrumental and misleading, and above all, with the greatest respect for matters which we do not share, it has not convinced us at all, as parliamentarians, that you wanted to present it a few hours before the report by Prefect Pansa was known. And then we wonder why, regardless of the views of those representatives of the United Nations evoked by Mr Giarrusso. They didn't understand anything. The nightmare of the Italian police, in those days so difficult, was to circumvent the practice of performance. Their nightmare was what happened to Prefect Pollari: he became a magistrate, a councilman of state, but vile with extraordinary fierceness as prefect in the courtrooms and in the common sense of the people! There are quite different feelings that Mr Alfano has put forward in this House towards a great and dignified servant of the State, the Prefect Procaccini. Why such naivety of our police leadership? Why so much disattention to the culture of guarantees and so much intolerable rhetoric in that fight against organized crime cost what it costs in terms of human rights? There is a hasty subculture and I would say obnoxious, which has done so much harm to Italy, that of the "could not not not know". I have had the feeling that it has been re-emerged for a few days, and we hope not in this House. Why so much automatism - it is the nightmare of which we read in the report of the Head of Police - and why so much timing in the explication of actions, reactions and decisions of our bureaucracy? No act in itself is illegitimate, but the chain of acts in our chain of command then reaches a chilling inhumanity. Not to mention our judiciary, Mr Casson, for the umpteenth time insensitive to the guarantees of law, but always an arrogant guardian of the ruthlessness of law. Here Manzoni would come to mind: "A horrendous and mysterious force the world possesses." The meaning of the relationship of Prefect Pansa is dramatic. Every single behavior has its own legitimacy. But then, to review the connection effect, there are exaggerations of excessive rigour and a chilling lack of guarantees. Let us stop, in democracy, from considering the police as an institution that is used to suppress! No, it's a high-end guarantee institution! And if the leaders of the Italian Police tend to make mistakes, it is precisely because that vile "could not not not know" tends to take over the common sense. In the various reports on the figure of Ablyazov overlap, one on the other, profiles of dissident and profiles of delinquent. It has already happened in the history of Italy. I remember a great foreign minister, Mr Arnaldo Forlani, when, in view of the Biennale of Dissidents (we were in the second half of the 1970s), he claimed to be dissident criminals such as Kolakowski, Sakharov and Solgenitsin. There was much complicity in this disinformation work in the Berlinguer party. Arnaldo Forlani said that it was not for the Government in Italy to interfere with the autonomy of the president of the Biennale. Words of extraordinary sobriety, but which returned a profile of liberal dignity to Italy. That Biennale of dissent was held. I think Formigoni was in the room. There were certainly some young people of Communion and Liberation, as well as the teacher of liberalism Nicola Matteucci. It was a triumph of guarantees. It would have been a much more hateful and hasty cowardice to prevent its development, as many wanted in those days. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Comrade (GAL). Since I've run out of time, I'll take one last thought. Just the day before yesterday evening the Minister of the Interior said that on the basis of all the implications of the Pansa report we must review the way in which the leaders of our high administration operate. Sacrosanct, Minister! But, taking advantage of the presence of the President of the Council, I would add that it cannot be a work separated from a work of constitutional policy. Enough with the nonsense of Bassanini's laws! Enough with reducing the prefects to paperweights, perhaps even subordinate to the regional institute! You, Minister of the Interior, are the prestigious leader of a party that is preparing to return to the formula of Forza Italia. As a man of government, I hope you will return to the "Italieta" of Joel, where the relationship between politics and bureaucracy was respectful of connections, distinctions and autonomy. The "Italieta" was a democracy, despite the nonsense that was said after the war and gave us a good example of respect for rights at a time when the police had much more difficult tasks than stem the diplomatic offensive of Kazakhstan. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u21	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, I always listen carefully to Senator Compagna's passion and I share his opinion on Jelittian Italy. However, Senator Compagna forgot to remind the House that the bodies of the State have pointed out at least four problems - I will point out five, Mr President - and a contingent effect, linked to the fact that the Senate is discussing today. There has been a clear violation of human rights, already mentioned. The head of the Pansa Police - and this is the second point - reports errors of the Department of Public Security, among other things excessively prone to pressure from the Kazakh embassy. Third: an activity of our Services that we can call surprising (the interpretation of the term "surprising" I entrust to the sensitivity of each of us). I add two factors, which are not collateral. Anomaly in the reconstruction of the events occurred, then tacit by Prefect Procaccini with a laconic statement in the afternoon of July 17, following the interviews that the newspapers published that morning. The Prefect Procaccini stated that there is no difference of vision with Minister Alfano; and that is enough for us. Fifth and final question, which is very much mentioned in this House, but which has an exclusively and decisive political significance: the political role of the Minister of the Interior, of any Minister of the Interior, who is not, in the manner of Fouché, just a Minister of Police. The obvious and contingent effect is the tangle of the tangle of questions and errors that have been made when it clashes with the Bossi-Fini law, which is not the last in the reconstruction of the events that have happened. Mistakes, manifest weakness of a rule of the state, diplomatic subjugation, violation of a right, political functions of the Minister of the Interior compromised on hot days - not these, Minister: those days - for him and for the party to which he belongs. Of the Bossi-Fini law and of the inadmissible automatisms with which the judicial authority last remains victims a mother and a daughter. The defender of Mrs. Shalabayeva, Professor Vincenzo Cerulli Irelli, is documenting this perfectly and will do so in days. We have to ask ourselves, Mr President, where the American ambassador would have ended up, whether in 1985 he had addressed the Chief of Staff or the Commander of the Carabinieri to obtain the surrender of Abu Abbas. What should be done is that now, immediately, our Minister for Foreign Affairs declared himself a person who was not welcome by the Kazakh ambassador in Italy. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE), M5S and Senators Buemi and Zin and Misto-SEL]] This is something we can do quickly, and it would be a good and fair thing, as has already been requested, moreover, by authoritative representatives of the Senate of the Italian Republic. But we must ask ourselves, above all, what justifies the casualness with which the high bureaucracy believes that it can ignore political authority or even disregard its guidelines, if the reconstruction of what has happened is the truth of what has happened. The answer is apparently simple, and has to do with the precariousness of the political framework, as well as the rhetoric with which, over the course of the twenty years, the autonomy of the administration has been emphasized with respect to a political power always suspected of being partial. Mr President, we do not participate in the game of massacres against your Government, but we want clarity and we are happy that you are here to bring it; we demand truth about what has happened and we can also demand a blow of the kidneys from your Government, perhaps even a re-reading of the majority that supports it, if those who support it sometimes do so with suspicion and instead those who do not have delegations, at crucial moments, vote for trust. Because we are doing this today, here and now: we renew our trust to you, for the commitment that you take and to remove Italy from the precipice on which it faces. I have no doubt, Minister, that an act of individual responsibility would give the Government greater strength and authority. I'm not talking about a government crisis, because that would be irresponsible. Only naive people can continue to shake the signs of the permanent electoral campaign, as if they were destined sooner or later to become a government program. Only naive people, in short, could sacrifice a government that is on the altar of a government that is not there, imagining that the fracture around which to regenerate the political and economic system is the one that passes from country diverticuli and not the one that divides Italy from Europe, the development from stagnation, citizenship from corporations. The acts of responsibility towards the State that is used come before membership of a party. You swear on the Constitution, Minister, and you serve not a party, nor a leader, but a people. State reasoning requires clear decisions and all decisions that are required in this case are directed in the same direction. Political reason succumbs to the reason of state, when it proves incompatible with it. Our responsibility, Minister, is here, in plain sight and consists in rejecting any demagogic position, which would honor us with a multiplication of 'I like' on the Net, but which would bring us back, terribly, to last spring. Responsibility is a shared value in the Government of Public Things. In July the Commission devoted a great deal of its time to dissolving two nodes in no programmatic and in no way related to the improvement of the state of health of Italian families. Your responsibility, Minister, I would like to know when you are and where you are. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u23	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank President Letta for his presence in this House and for the attentive listening he is giving us. I appreciated - and I say this in a non-ritual way - the President's choice to be here today. This represents not only a sign of great responsibility and respect for the institutions - for all the institutions - but above all the important political signal of a President of the Council respectful of all the members of his majority, who in the face of instrumental attacks on a member of his Government, without the political color, puts us face. With today's vote of confidence, a serious case is closed, unjust and embarrassing and we give, we must give, new impetus to the action of Government, restoring a relationship of trust between the Government, the whole Government, and the majority, all the majority that supports it. It is clear that you cannot stay in the same majority and ask for the resignation of your Vice-Premier and Minister of the Interior. With today's vote this debate must be closed and I want to say it without periphrases: the word "fine" goes without shadows, without retrothinks, with a full confidence to the Minister of the Interior, victim of an orchestrated media campaign to promote the destruction of this Government. I am sure that you, too, in your speech, Mr President-in-Office, will agree that today we must have the political capacity and maturity to go further, creating all the conditions to remedy the dramatic Kazakh affair, as we have begun to do in accordance with the procedures and respect for the laws, the charters of rights and international conventions, and translating into concrete and programmatic commitment the chapters on which the Head of State invoked stability and cohesion yesterday and on which in the coming weeks Government and Parliament will be called upon to give effective and responsible responses to a country bent by the crisis. The truth about the Kazakh affair that we are putting on record today is simple in its drama and Minister Alfano explained it to us in his information. It is a serious affair - it will never be said enough - that presents characters that, as highlighted by the report of the head of the Police, Prefect Alessandro Pansa, from the beginning are appaled as "not ordinary." The thunderous expulsion of Alma Shalabayeva and her six-year-old daughter Alua, respectively wife and daughter of Mukhtar Ablyazov, internationally sought Kazakh dissident for scam, criminal association and embezzlement, followed the failed attempt to capture her husband through a night break-in. It is a humanly terrible affair and it would be regrettable to exploit and tow it for political ends; Alma and her child must be helped to return, not used. The Kazakh diplomats present on the territory have moved with determination, seeking before meeting the Minister of the Interior, failing to succeed, and then providing documents and details on Ablyazov from which it appeared to be in fact a wanted, but not also an opponent of the regime: a man to whom London had recognized the status of political refugee, but of which the British High Court then ordered the freezing of assets and the auctioning of the London residence. The procedure followed was characterised by the interruption, from a certain stage onwards, of the flow of information between public security forces, government cabinet leaders and political authorities. On this scenario, the opposition groups who signed the motion, and a certain press, have woven imaginative reconstructions, when they are not biased, with political intent, of which the text of the motion bears traces, citing as truths revealed articles of press heart attack of illations, suppositions, inaccuracies widely denied. These are initiatives aimed at breaking down a political balance. But never as at this moment, in a Italy still narrow by the grip of recession and much more in need of stability, it is necessary to overcome the perverse mechanism of imprecise reconstructions of the facts, of instrumentalization of interpretations and fixing of firm points. It is deeply unfair to claim that the political level has been self-absolute. On the contrary, politics has been active in order to scan and solve the problem, first of all with a self-protection appeal by Minister Alfano against the decree of expulsion, and to make the chain of responsibilities clear, stigmatizing behaviors of officials who hold delicate roles in the matter of security. And these are answers that show courage, fellow senators: to reorganize and replace a chain of command and bureaucratic management, which - as President Napolitano recalled - can put, and in fact in this case they have put, in serious difficulty the Executive, is exactly the opposite of pilateism evoked in these days by an interested editorial group and means having the courage not only to get his hands dirty, but to put his face on it. But here we are not judging those responsible for the anomalies; here, today, we are debating a motion of distrust against the Minister of the Interior, who according to the report of the Head of Police, did not meet the Kazakh diplomats, but was only informed that in the Ablyazov raid had not been found, and nothing more knew about this affair. It is significant that, in response to all this, from the Head of State, which we cannot forget, he himself was Minister of the Interior, a message has arrived confirming the correctness of the work of the Government and Minister Alfano and, together, an invitation to stability. As President Napolitano rightly points out, the continuity of this Government, engaged in a well-defined program of activities, cannot be jeopardised, without offering reasons to the most malicious and interested critics and detractors of our country, ready to proclaim the ungovernability and unreliability of Italy. It is therefore time to return to talk about the program of a Service Government, exceptional for an exceptional moment. The coming weeks will be full of topics for discussion on the economic agenda. Today we firmly reaffirm to Minister Alfano the confidence that we have also given to the Government of which he is a party. The People of Liberty will continue to take responsibility in the interest of the country, with the loyalty and spirit of those who want to build, of those who know how to build, and not to destroy. Good work to all of us. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u26	Colleagues Senators, Presidents, the Democratic Party is, in summary, found in the two statements of President Napolitano. We do not want to put the Government in difficulty, which we support with loyalty and conviction; however, we express concern at the unprecedented event, and I express dissatisfaction with the reconstruction of the story made by Minister Alfano and the political consequences that have been drawn: political consequences that, in fact, have not been. I did not know, so I do not answer politically: this, in essence, is the defence provided to the Senate on Tuesday. Let me tell you, Minister, that your defence is lacking, because any good public administrator knows that it is not reasonable to boast of the merits obtained through his offices and, at the same time, to avoid personal responsibility in the event of problems likely to be caused by them. It is not fair - evidently - because, as they say, honors and burdens go together. It is not correct and motivating for the collaborators. We'd have preferred a minister who put his face on it. In the event, he could have been more attentive and active. If an ambassador of a state was looking for her with insistence, perhaps he should have guessed the reasons for such stubbornness, not only by relying on his chief of staff. In short, a minister is called not only to listen, but also to intuit, to prevent and to require insights and reports. More generally, there have been obvious shortcomings in procedures and in respect of the most basic rights of protection of persons and children. Let us all therefore treasure these mistakes, so that no longer a person is, for no serious reason, treated abruptly and violently by law enforcement. This is all the more true if the person is unjustly sought because he is under humanitarian protection and, even more so, if they are relatives totally unrelated to any possible charge. The other side of dissatisfaction is the exercise of foreign policy, which Mr Alfano clearly does not respond to. This last affair is nothing more than the last act of a complacent attitude towards countries that offer Italy and its businesses great economic opportunities. This is worth more, paradoxically, with countries where democratic life is almost non-existent. We understand, understand and support the reasons of the global economy and the need for our best companies to export and ensure our energy supplies. However, it is time to say that there is a limit at least in continuing not to notice that the most basic democratic rights are lacking, for example in Kazakhstan. There is a limit in not pointing out that torture and the confining of political opponents are usual practices in different nations. There is a limit, above all, in camaraderie that has characterized some relations with Heads of State and Government, which inevitably ends up fueling the suspicion of seeing mixed confidence with favor, friendship with fairness. How, in short, can we continue to invoke respect for human rights in the world and at the same time wink at modern tyrants? Because this, unfortunately, has probably happened: a disproportionate servility, not only a unfortunate series of inattentiveness in favour of a nation that can be allowed to snubbe Italy, answering that its ambassador is not willing to meet our Minister for Foreign Affairs because he is committed to enjoying the deserved holidays. It is with this critical and constructive spirit that we want to urge the Ministers and the Government, with the awareness that these are complex challenges that deserve an absolute and full-time dedication to the effective exercise of such delicate Dicasteries. We therefore expect very soon from you, Minister and Vice-President, and above all from you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, details, assurances and measures that will allow the recovery of a firm and full leadership of the Ministry of the Interior and not to repeat such an unprecedented story. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u27	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Alfano, I must say that we would have liked to commit this day of work perhaps to something more productive and useful, given that the problems of the country, in our opinion, are very serious and far-reaching. We have the feeling that, normally, external facts have reverberation on the outside, but this time they are external facts that have reflected on our internal issues. If a few days ago we could have ventured a few hypotheses, today those hypotheses - we read the newspapers - are chronicles. A member of the majority - I do not know whether to say Renzi and the Renzians - does not hide the will to pull the plug on this Government. In fact, the adage is the key to understanding motives and intentions underlying every situation that is tangled up. If President Letta and his Government achieve any positive results, Renzi has no hope of achieving his brilliant career. And if Alfano falls, who is not a normal minister, but is the secretary of the two major parties that support this majority, this fact would also drag the government. We anticipate enormous risks for the country if that happens. Although someone probably thinks it's best that Samson dies with all the Philistines. We of the League are for meritocracy, that is, people judge them for their commitment to the institutional role, but we see that the mayor of Florence is very little engaged in its function: it is often elsewhere and lately more in Europe than in Italy. But let's get back to the specific case. We have examined the situation. A criminal is reported in Rome, wanted by Interpol with an international arrest warrant issued even in 2009. Our police do the mandatory checks and at the reported address does not find the person they were looking for, but the wife and daughter, in addition to a brother who claims to be a gardener. The wife declares other generalities: she presents a Central African passport, false, altered without pages. The police carry out checks and, in the end, the lady must admit her own generalities, other names, but it turns out deprived of any title to remain in this country: she has not allowed to stay, does not declare refuge, does not require asylum and does not even declare to be the wife not of a criminal, but of a political refugee. The police operate the normal procedures and take the decree of expulsion. The League can only applaud the speed with which the measure was triggered on this occasion: perhaps there was always the same speed for all the decrees of expulsion! Also about the fact that a plane was made available by the Kazakh authorities, read and interpreted as strange, let's say: maybe Morocco, Libya and Tunisia made available aircraft for return to their countries! But let's go back to the figure of Mr. Ablyazov; wanted international since 2009, subtracts 15 billion euros. When I read the figure, I thought it was equivalent to a financial maneuver and that if the Italian Republic had the availability of it we would solve many of our problems. Of these 15 billion, 4 billion have already been confiscated by the Kazakh authorities. He gets convictions from Russia, Ukraine and, as well as from Kazakhstan, Great Britain. The crimes for which he is suspected are misappropriation, miscarriage, scam, legalization of capital, money laundering, abuse of power, creation and direction of an organized criminal group, a criminal organization in our system. These crimes, for Kazakh law, would lead to a sum of sentences that would exceed 51 years, which would amount to two life sentences. In conclusion, this gentleman doesn't look like a shin of saint. The wife resides in Italy, alternately with or without husband, without titles and permits. What the police did, we wouldn't feel like we blamed him. What probably did not work are internal communications; perhaps, there would have been a need to analyse the matter in a more diplomatic way, but I do not know whether on the internal chain or on the foreign line of command. As members of the League, however, we would like to discuss this case when we have more elements at our disposal. We do not feel that we are being exploited for something that is actually not quite clear yet, but it tastes like a balance of accounts between the forces supporting this shaky majority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u29	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u30	Mr President, today we feel a palpable discomfort. It is not easy to intervene in this debate, because we are children of a democratic and liberal tradition. Our Constitution and our laws no doubt lay down strict codes of conduct and we are committed in the first place, out of respect for Parliament and for the Government itself, to adopting and making a common effort of truth. There are too many anomalies in this affair to bring it back to normal and the first - let me do so - is that we are talking about it in Parliament more than a month and a half after that unfortunate and sad day. The first thought is for Mrs. Shalabayeva and her little girl: to them the Italian State owes an apology, without if and without but. He owes an apology and a commitment: we cannot abandon them now. No justification can be invoked, regardless of the status of the husband, which is evidently controversial. In this regard, as President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, I would like to express my firmest protest at the unworthy behaviour of the Kazakh diplomatic authorities accredited to the Italian State. [[Applause from the SCPI groups]] , PD, M5S and Mixed-SEL). In particular, it is not acceptable that the ambassador, who, being on holiday, did not find the time to respond to the summons of our Minister of Foreign Affairs, find him instead to explain to us from the columns of the press how Mukhtar Ablyazov is only an ordinary criminal persecuted for his common crimes. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I do not put my hand on the fire on the moral integrity of the aforementioned and I would urge everyone to be cautious about it. However, I remind the diplomat and all the senators that we are talking about a country - Kazakhstan - that in international statistics on press freedom it is one hundred and sixty-sixth in 179 countries. However, even if this were the reality (that of the husband), it would not justify in any way the affliction of this so-called ambassador in organizing the deportation of a woman and a six-year-old girl. I want to say clearly (if Minister Bonino is not engaged on the phone) that the Farnesina must assess the compatibility of this gentleman with the office he holds in the Italian State. [[Applause from the SCPI and Mixed-SEL groups]] Of course, there are huge economic interests around this country throughout the West. We must be aware of this and also of the fact that many people can try to take advantage of this crisis: so many of our allies, so many friendly countries, perhaps in these hours they work actively in the undergrowth of a certain world to try to get away from Italy some business and hijack them perhaps elsewhere. We are aware of this because with ingenuity we do not make foreign policy or the economic interests of the country. The terms of the matter, however, are these: we are talking about a country without civil liberties, and we must set clear boundaries. No economic interest can justify the loss of national dignity, our decency and our principles. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]] Italy has made a bad figure in the world - the State as a whole has made it - because there has been an unacceptable tolerance towards diplomats who have adopted abnormal behaviors, not opposed by weak authorities, if not complacent. The police, the judicial authorities and some ministries have certainly not provided a good proof of themselves. On the sidelines of the matter, I would like to make a thought. There is a need for more politics in Italy because, when it is lacking, bureaucracy goes beyond its tasks and risks going astray. This proves it, and for decency I do not add dozens of daily examples that each of us could lead to the management of other ministries. The government, which few support with the conviction of those who speak to you, comes out weaker from this tormented and sad affair. It seems to me that the repeated statements by President Letta, Vice-President Alfano, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Guardasigilli document this opinion now shared. There would be no other explanation for the same official communication that you made on 12 July and the many statements about it. Finally, if there were no such well-established awareness, the Head of State would certainly not have spoken yesterday - I quote - of serious reasons for embarrassment and discredit for the State and the Government would not have put in place new rules of conduct and innovative bureaucratic management chains in order to avoid the repetition of such examples in the future. I say to my colleagues presenters of the motion, to the Senators of the M5S and Misto-SEL Groups, that the questions to be solved are there and are legitimate, but what we strongly disagree with is that the distrust of Mr Alfano - whose words we have no reason to doubt because we have confidence in the person - can be the solution to the problem. Even more irresponsible today would be a vote that would give Italy back to uncertainty and instability, just as the Letta Government is working hard to raise Italy. To this adventuristic vote we are not available, because from a story certainly disdainable we would make descend an even more dramatic epilogue, pernicious for Italy and the Italians. The political controversy is always legitimate, the different visions also, but those who support the Government must avoid the pharisaic attitudes of some vulture in effective permanent service, even within the majority, which in words devotes itself to praise to the Government and in fact daily undermines the reasons of existence. I shall end, ladies and gentlemen. It is difficult - I realize that for many it is even more difficult than for me or for the Group to which I belong - to support such an atypical and strange majority. We do this in the interests of the country, and I would like to make a final warning. We all bow to the emergency in this House, beyond this incident. As Senator Russo brilliantly said earlier, if we bow to the emergency, we avoid being in the majority just to pay off the debts of our old electoral promises. Let us look ahead; let us not settle our accounts with the past; let us try to build the future. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, PDL and LAG groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u31	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, fellow citizens, we are here to assess whether you, Minister Alfano, after the very serious events that we all know, still have the confidence of this House or not. I say that it is too convenient, Minister, to be distrusted only by this House. You, Minister, before coming to this House, should have gone to Kazakhstan and rescued Mrs Shalabayeva with her child. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's what you had to do, Minister, and then come here and ask us for trust. I would also like to address you, fellow senators. Many of you have already signed the motion of distrust, others will consider whether to do so at the end of this debate, looking to your own conscience. I would also like to ask you a few simple questions. In the Senate we are dealing with the terrible condition of violence against women and the rules against feminicide, we have unanimously adopted the Istanbul Convention: well how can we fly over the expulsion of an unarmed lady and her little six-year-old girl, expelled to a country where their safety is surely at risk? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you really think that everything that happened could be considered normal? Do you really think that a wretched operation like this, which has seen the involvement of at least 50 men of DIGOS, private aircraft booked even before the court hearing, authentic passports exchanged for fakes, abnormal expulsion procedures, could have taken place without political cover of any kind? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you really believe, fellow senators, that the recent arrival of the Kazakh dictator in our country, a guest in a villa owned by a friend of Berlusconi, is just a coincidence? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you really believe that the economic interests related to the gas and oil business that seem to bind to Kazakhstan even some prominent politicians of our country have nothing to do with the facts in question? I don't believe that at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe, for example, that the head of the cabinet of the Viminale, the prefect Giuseppe Procaccini, esteemed official already at the time of the ministers Maroni and Chancellors, now resigned, is the only and only apical responsible for what happened. I do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano, knew anything about this. At one stroke, kind Minister, you have succeeded in violating Article 33 of the Geneva Convention, in the part where it indicates that no Contracting State will expel or reject, in any way, a refugee to the borders of territories in which his life or freedom would be threatened because of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a social group or his political views, and Article 10 of the Constitution, in particular where it provides that alien extradition for political crimes is not permitted. You have also succeeded in violating Article 19 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, where it is written that "No one can be removed, expelled or extradited to a State where there is a serious risk of being subjected to the death penalty, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment." In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today is a very important day for the institution that we are honored to represent. In fact, we are faced with a crossroads: we can choose to strongly stigmatize what happened, distrusting Minister Alfano on the basis of Article 95 of the Constitution, according to which the Ministers are collectively responsible for the acts of the Council of Ministers, and individually for the acts of their dicasteries, or we could do as the three monkeys who do not see, hear and do not speak. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Gambaro.]] We could thus obscure our consciences and create a dangerous precedent for the freedom of all citizens. If this second hypothesis were to prevail, we would humiliate this important institution which is the Senate of the Republic in a way not very different from what happened in the House not too long ago. I am referring to that episode in which, at the behest of Berlusconi, to save the government, it even came to vote that Ruby was Mubarak's niece. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dear colleagues, I therefore turn to you and your consciences so that this grave humiliation does not happen again. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bondi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor above all to express our closeness, my political and personal closeness to Mr Angelino Alfano. I do not forget that, on the occasion of the presentation of a motion of distrust which concerned me for the fall of a wall in Pompeii, Angelino Alfano was among the few Ministers to be near me on the benches of the Government. The parties still have a sense if they remain a community of values, ideals and above all of solidarity, as well as of respect for the institutions. I also take the floor now that the story has been essentially clarified in its general aspects and the responsibilities have been established, in order to try to share with all of you, ladies and gentlemen, a fear and a concern: if we continue in this way - this is my conviction - we will all end up destroying ourselves and involving in this collective destruction the destinies of our country. We are all convinced, from time to time, in good faith, to conduct a noble political battle, as today by some political forces, but in reality - and we know it within ourselves - this battle, this way of conceiving the political struggle is purely negative, it is purely destructive. This political struggle is destructive first of all because it never respects the dignity of people, who very often become targets of instrumental and even violent polemics; second because it almost never cares about the general interests of the country, but only about party interests or party currents. The political confrontation in Italy never takes place, or rarely takes place, along the tracks of normality, as in all other democratic countries. It is always a confrontation over the lines, exaggerated, immeasurable, overwhelmed with facts and reality, until the identification of real scapegoats, put to shame with the request for individual resignation. The parties, through this form of political struggle, are almost always inflexible towards political opponents and indulgent towards their own political side. Right, Senator De Cristofaro? When Mr Vendola, President of his party, Left Ecology and Freedom, recently met the Kazakh ambassador, he did not seem to have much to do with civil rights and democracy in that country. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] He seemed rather interested in developing fruitful relations of collaboration and cooperation with Puglia, considering Kazakhstan, with its poetic afflate, one of the richest and most prodigiously swollen lands of raw materials. Ladies and gentlemen, this way of conceiving politics is typical of Italy, unfortunately, and it is taking us away towards a real civil and moral embarrassment that self-destructs us all: no one believes to be saved! There is always someone riding a more anti-political anti-politics, someone riding a more extremist and radical extremism than the others. So let's stop while we're in time. We keep the comparison within the limits of respect for people, especially those like Minister Alfano, known by all in this House, opponents and friends, for his moral integrity and his sense of respect for the institutions. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups]] So let us keep the comparison within the limits of content, de facto data, reality and care for political stability, especially at such a difficult time for our economy. I shall conclude, Mr President. It has also been seen that this way of making politics will not only end up destroying the parties, but will also end up taking away from the parties any remaining credibility and authority, so that we see how in these days the parties are no longer able to master and control the situation. In these years, especially in these days, only the authority and political wisdom embodied by the Head of State have put Italy back on track. But until when will the intervention of the President of the Republic, which adds, beyond his own will, ever greater powers than that provided for in our Constitution, be necessary to make up for the crisis of the parties? How long will the intervention of the Head of State be indispensable to make up for our crisis? When will parties and politics be able to play their role again with balance and sense of responsibility? These, ladies and gentlemen, are the questions that we must ask ourselves today, if we want to learn a positive lesson from this before it is too late. [[Applause from the PD and LAG groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u36	Mr President, I am truly convinced that none of us in this House, but also among those who follow with participation and sensitivity the civil life of the country, does not feel the weight and gravity of what has happened: President Letta and the Ministers certainly no less than each of us. In our country, fundamental human rights, protected by the Constitution, international norms and conventions, have been trampled on. Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter Alua, a six-year-old girl, were demanded by the authorities of Kazakhstan to take her hostage and condition the activity of opposition to the dictatorial regime. Our country delivered them. This is the raw reality. What strikes me (and I think it must strike us) is the fact that there is a six-year-old girl: I do not think it is possible, in those who examine a practice of expulsion, not have a moment of reflection, of deepening, of verification, when there is a six-year-old girl! [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] A little girl! I acknowledge to the President of the Council and to the Government a fair and unpredicted choice of an internal investigation entrusted to the new Head of Police, the decision to report it in full to Parliament and to make it public without omissions. It is a fact that must be acknowledged. Unfortunately, it is not customary, and I think it must be acknowledged because, instead, it must become normal as an act of transparency and democratic accountability. The decision-making chain, as it appears from this report, is impressive: superficiality, carelessness in verifying situations (repeat: despite a small child), bureaucratic automatisms involved four magistrates, top executives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Police and the coveted leaders of other Ministries. The concern for human rights, the dignity of the person and the attention to a child has been completely absent. How many other times has it happened, out of the spotlight on the notoriety of the people involved? This is the question that we must ask ourselves and on which we must act, because we do not want the dignity of the person to be linked to the notoriety of the people. This dignity exists and must be respected as such. On this occasion, there was, in addition, a role not only irrational, but improper and intolerable of the ambassador of Kazakhstan, to which the way in which he replied to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is added. On this point too, the Government must make an in-depth assessment and consider the most appropriate decisions. The story of Alma and Alua disturbs our consciences and grieves us for the responsibilities that we all have in front of the country, I repeat, and for the perhaps unknown cases that there are. If we did not warn that a great scar was caused to Italy and its image in the world, if we did not have this awareness within us, there would not be even the conditions to face and remove the causes that led to the delivery of a mother and a child to the authorities of Kazakhstan. First of all, we have a commitment to make here, in this House, in a solemn way: do not forget, once the internal political affair, Alma and Alua, is closed today. In their home in Kazakhstan it is as if there were, after you rightly revoked the expulsion, a piece of Italy. And our embassy, the government and Parliament, in the possible forms, must not leave them alone again, because this would be unforgivable. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] Secondly, it is necessary not only to remove those responsible for an unjustifiable operation, but to change the culture, the formation, the laws, probably, that guide the structures of the State in all its articulations. Human rights do not come later: they come sooner or, at least, will come to the same point and place as legitimate economic interests and political realism. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Russo and Cirinna.]] The not easy balance between our state of mind, the feeling of legitimate indignation that we feel, the feeling of what has been done as a rubble to Italy and our political responsibility does not result, however, in the vote on a motion of distrust presented by the opposition to Minister Alfano even before having taken note and read the report of Prefect Pansa. And I want to say this - not only because we are in a majority and we support the Government with commitment, loyalty and conviction; not only because a government crisis would not restore Italy any international credibility and would not allow decisions to change behaviour and attitudes towards those who need protection and have confidence and hope in Italy; not only because a government crisis would be in the dark, would put back the hands, would forget the result of the elections and, above all, would interrupt the action to address economic and social emergencies and the path that has just begun of institutional reforms. Not only for this, Mr President, but because, at least I know that there are differences between us too, I find myself fully in the words of the President of the Republic, when he says, I quote, how: "It is very delicate and daring to evoke objective responsibilities consubstantial to the office that is held." I believe it is convincing, not because the President of the Republic said it, but because it is my conviction, these words. Of course, I find it authoritative in what President Napolitano said, but I am convinced of that. And that applies to the ministers, the mayors, the presidents: it applies to everyone. Attention, because such a step, in which consubstantial responsibilities are recognized to the functions and not what emerges from the acts, would open a hole in which criteria of judgment (variable) would be dictated by the relationships of force or conveniences of the moment. I don't think Italy needs this. Another thing, of course, is the freedom, responsibility and sensitivity that each one of us has in evaluating the situations in which we are involved and then making the choices that are considered most right. For this reason, President Letta, Ministers, in the no to the motion of opposition there is an act of confidence towards the President of the Council, towards the whole of the Government, so that this carries forward its commitment, including the removal of the causes that have led to this sad situation, which outrages us, but which has hurt Italy. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] . Many congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u37	The debate is closed. He asked the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here today in the Senate and wanted to speak, a rare practice in the case of a motion of individual distrust, for two reasons. The first is naturally linked to my role as Head of Government. It is a task that, from the beginning of my mandate, I have intended to live as an honour and as an act of service to the country, as an assumption of strong responsibility, according to the Constitution and before the nation, of the general policy guidelines of the Executive. The second explanatory statement concerns the parliamentary nature of this Government. This Executive was born in the highest and noble seats of the popular sovereignty of our nation: the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies. He was born in Parliament and in Parliament I have always told everything: the intentions of the Government on the eve of important international events (the European Summits in May and June, so important for Europe and also for Italy), the passages that I consider to constitute our programme and its implementation, the start of the path of constitutional reforms. I have returned to Parliament and I intend to return whenever important, sensitive, even painful issues, which is certainly what we are debating today, call for more and more mutual listening, debate and clarification. The expulsion from our country of Mrs. Alma Shalabayeva and her child is for Italy reason, as President Napolitano rightly pointed out yesterday, of embarrassment and discredit. From this embarrassment, from this discredit the field must be cleared. To do so I chose, we chose, the line of total disclosure, total transparency. We have in fact started an internal investigation of the governing bodies in order to reconstruct the facts and highlight all the critical profiles. On 9 July, in the Chamber, during the question time, I confirmed this commitment. From that investigation it emerged unequivocally what was communicated on July 12, together with the revocation of the expulsion order: the existence and the development of the expulsion procedures had not been communicated in any way to the top of the Government. Hence the further investigation entrusted by the Minister of the Interior to the Head of the Police, who took office after the events, in order to ascertain all the responsibilities of the lack of information, made of particular gravity for a matter that immediately presented elements and characters anything but ordinary. On 16 July the results of that investigation, as soon as it was acquired by the Government, were officially communicated by the Minister of the Interior first in this House and then in the Chamber, because we wanted to stick immediately to the principle that, especially on this thorny affair, everything we know must also be known to Parliament. The report by Prefect Alessandro Pansa, who also spoke personally the day before yesterday in the Human Rights Commission here in Palazzo Madama, is thorough, correct and does not discount. Reconstructed facts that leave us stunned, facts that in Italy in 2013 are not tolerable, even more to the detriment of a woman and a child. It is precisely in relation to these facts that the lack of involvement of the government's leaders is confirmed in an unmistakable way, and it is clear, in particular, that the Minister of the Interior has been extraneous. There are those who have evoked an objective responsibility: on the limits and correctness of the use of this responsibility I refer to yesterday's words, clear and unequivocal, of the Head of State. I want to confirm here that on the facts, which leave us stunned, we do not intend to give up the grip to try to outline the outlines of actions and omissions now established, but of which there are still obscure reasons and connections. I am referring in particular to the unprecedented behaviour of the ambassador of Kazakhstan, how Ablyazov could be exchanged for terrorist, who, while having serious problems with British justice, is difficult to define as such. I am also referring to how one could have acted without the caution that such a case clearly required, without taking the time necessary to deepen the exact condition of a woman and a child, without asking any question about the unusual availability of a private flight for their repatriation. The Government, in addition to all that has already been done and which is rebuilt in the report of Prefect Pansa, therefore intends to continue to act to clarify and to put into practice what has been decided on the basis of the internal investigation and the report itself. At an international level, we will continue to check Mrs Shalabayeva's conditions of residence in Kazakhstan. Yesterday the Italian Deputy Ambassador to Astana, Ferrara, visited the lady and daughter, from whom she was thanked for the activity of the Government in these days and for all the attention that has been dedicated to her, through dedicated diplomatic staff and with the constant activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs led by Emma Bonino, protagonist of many battles for human rights and whose conduct, also in this case, is absolutely consistent with the principles that have always inspired her action. In view of the investigations that led to the withdrawal of the expulsion, we have expressed to the authorities of Kazakhstan the hope that the lady will be able to regain full freedom of movement. We also want to take lessons from what has happened in order to avoid - I quote the Head of State again - any new unacceptable pressure and interference from any foreign diplomat. Minister Bonino has already taken the appropriate steps in this regard to express our dismay with the summons, in the absence of the ambassador (and here I would like to add: double bewilderment), of the business manager of Kazakhstan. But we want to take lessons from what happened also at internal level, intervening on rules and rules of engagement for such cases, in order to avoid further episodes of lack of political involvement. Meanwhile, it is with regret, but also with the sense of ineluctability, that the changes made necessary, at the level of law enforcement and the structures of the Viminale, by the contents of the report of the Head of Police are proceeding. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote I am asking of you today, however, is not just a no to the motion of distrust tabled by colleagues of the 5 Star Movement and SEL towards the Minister of the Interior and vice-president of the Alfano Council. This is a point which I respect, of course: it is part of the parliamentary dialectic, and many times I too have voted and acted in the Chamber of Deputies' classrooms, I have spoken and I have spoken on actions of this kind. What I am asking here today, however, is a new act of confidence in the government that I have the honour to preside over. Of my programmatic speech to the Chambers much has been achieved in these eighty days, through measures launched by the Council of Ministers - I repeat: launched, i.e. already approved - in favour of the citizens, especially the most vulnerable, of businesses and workers; through a comparison of equals with our main allies and partners in the world; through a systematic action of pressure to bring the Italian agenda back to the European agenda and to change the latter, making Europe again to be, as we have been working for some time for it to happen, not a limit or a scapegoat, but the solution to the problems of people, starting from those of the youngest, of an entire generation betrayed and mortified in their aspirations and dreams of realization. Of all this there is a risk of losing track in the political debate, and certainly not because the merit of the measures does not interest the real life of the people or the work of so many attentive information operators, but because the background noise is too high, too visceral, too instrumental not to immediately rise as a title, as a polemic, as a political flag easy to wave when necessary. It is a noise often fed to art by those who have the convenience to return politics and Italy the image of a state of permanent precariousness, as if the fault were always of others, as if we were condemned to the story of a country irreformable or reformable only through not better specified, but shouted, revolutions. It's a story that doesn't belong to me and that I don't want it to belong to this government in any way. The problems we face - and we are doing it even today with this unheard of story - just like inside a glass house, without reluctance, without discounts and without shortcuts, but also without giving in to the tic of the plot, to the crazy strepithio, to the suspicion, to the culrologies, to the myth of the ugly enemy, dirty and evil hidden inside every political opponent, to the clearance of the freedom of insult, completely unacceptable. The problems, the more general ones, those that have to do with the dramatic crisis that the country lives, we have addressed them with immediate solutions where it was possible: I think of the refinancing of the integration fund, the reform to make civil justice faster, I think of school building, the unblocking of construction sites for infrastructures, the first interventions to fight poverty, the incentives for restructuring and energy saving, the extraordinary plan of decontribution of work for many young people, the scholarships and mobility. When, on the other hand, immediate solutions are not objectively viable, we choose and - let it be clear - claim the path of patient construction of reforms destined to last beyond our own mandate. Those who want to wear down the government and the political framework call them referrals: I prefer to speak of seriousness, because respect for duties with Europe, the same respect that allowed us to be among the few virtuous countries with the end of the urgency procedure for excessive deficits, the commitment not to produce public debt to be discharged on the shoulders, already rather narrow, of the new generations, the effort to never proceed with linear cuts have required and require caution and attention. They require the ability to care for the country, doing well what needs to be done. They call for prudence linked to the still excessive volatility of the markets, which also in recent days demonstrates, due to fears about the situation in Greece, Portugal and Cyprus, that it is certainly not overtaken. They require the sense of the limit, and others themselves. They have requested and demand, first of all, courage. We therefore want, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to work: we want to continue to build answers for a country which demands reasonableness from us. This vote, the no that I ask you to the motion of distrust towards the minister and vice-president of the Alfano Council, will allow the government to proceed in the coming weeks and, however, by August 31 to give structural solutions to the overcoming of the IMU on the first house in the context of the reform of the taxation on the real estate, to close the match of the covers indispensable to foil the increase of the VAT, to take measures to strengthen the protection of the job and to resolve the issue untenable of the exodus, to give a further forced acceleration to the payment of the debts of the public administration, to strengthen the norms against corruption and organized crime. And I have taken up, Mr President, your appeal for the self-recycling rule, which will be one of the rules in these measures. This vote will allow the government to intercept all possible signs of recovery by the end of the year and to draw with balance a law of stability that plays, finally, in attack on the growth side with two extraordinary plans, one on the attraction of investments and another on the aggression to the public debt, and allows to return to focus on education, culture and innovation. For this reason, in conclusion, I would like to add a personal note that may appear unusual to you. Compared to the government's leadership and the political battles necessary to do the things Italians really expect, I wouldn't want an error of assessment to be made on me. In other words, I would not want what, with an expression of perhaps ancient taste, is called good education to be mistaken for weakness. In a time when screams and insults seem to win, I want to say to the senators who support the Government and to the Italians who believe in our plan to have full confidence in my determination, in my resistance and in my total dedication, to the full, for the good of Italy, to honour the task that President Napolitano and Parliament have assigned to me. I have no intention of letting you down and I will not let you down. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, SCPI, GAL and PDL Groups, whose senators stand up, and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u39	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u40	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I consider absurd the only possibility of a political crisis in Italy as a result of a political struggle in distant Kazakhstan. And I believe that this is the real, only, real, only reason for the debate that we are holding today in this Chamber: Kazakhstan's excuse to attack the government, defending the excuse and the reason with an alleged lack on the part of Minister Alfano of respect for primary democratic principles such as the right to life and freedom. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, I have a completely different opinion from that of the 5 Star Movement and, with due respect, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I also partly have a different opinion from yours: for me it is all a simple and absolute absurdity. It is and, as would be said elsewhere, I will try to prove it in fact and in law. I would then like to remind you that in order for there to be a dissident, as Senator De Cristofaro said from the outset, repeated by Senator Casson and many other speakers, there must be a totalitarian regime. To be a dissident, there must be a totalitarian regime. In order to have a political refugee, political asylum must first be given and there must be a country of origin of the asylum seeker in which there is a condition of impediment to the exercise of political rights. This says the law in Italy and this is what the International Conventions say. Mr President, the OECD has never censored the elections in Kazakhstan and President Nazarbayev has 37 international honours, including those of the United Kingdom, France, Luxembourg and - heard, heard - it is also a knight of great cross decorated with great cordon of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic. So he may not be a champion of democracy, but he doesn't seem to be a dangerous dictator either. And then, how can we not remember that the "Corriere della sera" explained a year ago - I quote - that in a part of the world in Kazakhstan, where democracy has never had a home and where the neighbouring countries, also former Soviets, shine out of repression, President Nazarbayev's paternalist authoritarianism is the best to grant history at the moment? Also on the "Corriere della sera" it is said that there the press is quite free, the opposition parties are actually such, the different religious cults are tolerated. I quote the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) and I don't want to forget to mention the "Republic" too, which, always a year ago, on the return of President Monti da Astana, wrote that one can appreciate the efforts of the Kazakh authorities to reform the country in a democratic sense, allowing two opposition parties there to participate in the political life of the country. Who is Mukhtar Ablyazov instead? Mukhtar Ablyazov is wanted for common crimes in his country: already president of a large Kazakh bank for five years is accused of having brought this a loss of 12 billion euros. But this could only be an excuse, a crime built locally as in the best spy stories. But then, why in the United Kingdom, after having moved there and started other activities, have they confiscated 3 billion euros from him and withdrawn his passport? After being in the UK, he thought well to take refuge in the beautiful country. He came here to Italy and settled in a beautiful villa, surrounded by servants and sworn guards, until, on the same day (only the same day) as the ambassador's visit to the police station in Rome, the Kazakh Government failed to issue an international arrest warrant. The same morning - probably the contemporary and the solicitude depended on having finally succeeded in recognizing an international mandate - the Kazakhs went to the police station and, perhaps worried about what, let's say, was a great solvency of the wanted Kazakh, they rushed to have the arrest carried out. We're talking about a person of dubious personality. Excuse me once again, colleagues presenters of the motion of distrust, but if you have all these doubts about Nazarbayev, why only certainties about Ablyazov? I remember that in Kazakhstan Ablyazov had been not only co-founder of the current Democratic Choice party, but, even before the president of the bank already mentioned, he had also been Minister of Trade. We are therefore talking about political partners and, all of a sudden, you think that one of the partners is a great decent person, while the other is not. Talk and keep talking about dissidents. Already Senator Compagna said that dissidents have always had another reputation and another qualification. It doesn't seem to me that when you talk about this dissident you can call to mind and urge our imagination and sympathy by comparing him to a Sakharov, a Solženicyn or Lech Walesa. In the common language when you say "" this is the truth" it is said "I've read it in the newspaper." And Senator De Cristofaro quoted ANSA on May 31 this morning. I went to read it again. It is said, and the Ansa journalists were good: "Expulsed wife opponent Kazakhstan". They also did not speak of a dissident: they spoke of an opponent. And they pointed out: "Alma Shalabayeva, wife of the businessman and opponent," I repeat: opponent, "political Kazakh Mukhtar Ablyazov," wanted at home for alleged scams and criminal association (...)." President Casini said: I understand everything, but I understand that we should declare the Kazakh ambassador a person who is not welcome, because human rights are not respected there. However, I would urge the President-in-Office of the Council and Mrs Bonino, who was present in this House just now, to take the same initiative with regard to the Chinese ambassador, and I do not know how many other ambassadors with whom we have very good relations. Even for China, in fact, there is absolutely no need to talk about respect for civil rights. Then let's stop. Let's take care of something else. You are right, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: we need to deal with something else. I do not understand how the person in question can be considered aspiring political refugee or perhaps a blessed servant of God. In my opinion it was only a limited discrasia, recognized because of an extremely prudent political self-criticism entrusted to Minister Alfano. And then trust, confidence in the Government and confidence in Minister Alfano, with the hope, which I once again express, to take care of something else. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u43	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, the Senators of the Group for the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE will vote against the motion of mistrust against the Minister for the Interior, Alfano. Our decision is motivated by the awareness that this vote is primarily a political act that calls into question not individual distrust, but the relationship between the Government and its majority. The sense of urgency and determination in the continuity of government action, which the President of the Republic reiterated yesterday as indispensable to the country, excludes acts that may represent a violation of the general interest. It is true that it is institutionally risky and inappropriate to evoke objective responsibilities of the Ministers for decisions which - as the President of the Council has reiterated and as the Head of Police's report has also established - have not been subjected to the scrutiny of political authority. This does not mean, however, that the Shalabayeva case is not a blatant and repeated violation of fundamental rights and rules. A violation that exposed and exposes the country to an unsustainable international position. In other words, Italy hasn't really made a good impression. We must therefore try to ensure that such a situation does not happen again. The transparency line adopted by the President of the Letta Council is the only acceptable condition. And from this point of view, the reorganization of the Department of Public Security that Minister Alfano announced cannot be the only answer to the heavy questions that in many fundamental respects remain such even after the communication of the Minister of the Interior to Parliament. The lack of involvement of the government leadership, as evidenced by the report of the Head of Police, does not exclude the substantial seriousness of the decisions taken at the different levels of responsibility concerned. For this reason it was not and is not acceptable to limit itself to affirming the correctness from the purely formal and legal point of view of the expulsion procedure, which has indeed been revoked. It is the public security system and the guarantee of the most basic rights to be called into question as a whole: this is not a formal issue. There are liability profiles that still need to be fully established and errors that will have to lead to appropriate sanctions. Diplomatic pressure and interference on public security systems and summits by a foreign country, led by an autocratic if not dictatorial regime, which has shown little respect for human rights, are unacceptable. We therefore expect the Government to act as a result so that this is no longer possible because it is not acceptable. I therefore declare our Group's vote against the motion of censure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIEe of Senators Albertini and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u46	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today you have come here, with your speech, to ask in fact for confidence in yourself, in your Government. This is the main issue that has been put to the attention of the House. This shows, President Letta, that you have chosen the way out of this affair, once again, only and only by calling for the state of necessity to carry out the action of the Government. I would like to point out to you that, if the government's action were so strong and so productive of important and decisive facts for our country, perhaps this story would have been dealt with differently, in the most natural way. You yourself would have asked, and obtained, for the resignation of your Minister of the Interior. One thing is clear. Mr Alfano deceived Parliament. He did so when he skilfully failed to read in the Chamber some passages of the report of the chief of the Police Pansa, and in particular the one in which it is said in very clear letters that it was Alfano who set up the meeting between his chief of cabinet Procaccini and the Kazakh ambassador, for a very delicate issue concerning the arrest of a dangerous fugitive. Who can believe that, after such a phrase, the Minister has disinterested himself in the very delicate issue? I could make a long list here, which I spare you, having already been made by other colleagues, of all the omissions, the half-truths, the half-lies and the lies, especially about whether or not Alfano was informed of the operation. We know that it is Procaccini himself who claims to have warned him promptly of the failed raid, and it was the ANSA agency, in a take on May 31, that reported the forced repatriation of Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter. Mr Alfano has been opaque and hesitant with Parliament; that is clear, even the senators who are going to vote against the motion of no confidence have mentioned it here. But these are not only the dark or frankly incredible elements in the Alfano version. Many others are counted, as in a script muffled badly and quickly, without even caring to make it, if not true, at least likely. What is clear to all is that there has been an unacceptable transfer of sovereignty of our country towards a foreign state. I ask you: in which democratic countries would a minister who had made himself responsible for this, directly or indirectly, not resign or be dismissed or distrusted? The question is only one (truth, ladies and gentlemen, is stronger than propaganda): in this story, the truth is that the Minister has been complicit or gravely negligent. In both cases, he should resign, as would be the case for the President-in-Office of the Council. It is a question of the ability to take responsibility, which should be the distinctive feature of every good politician and every good man of government, even if I have the impression that here, instead, we are dealing with a matter of small men, who do not know how to assume their responsibilities. Mr Alfano, with what courage, with what authority, after you have discharged all responsibilities on the subordinates, can you think of continuing to lead the Ministry of the Interior? [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] It's no small matter! It would have happened in any Ministry, but you well understand the delicacy of being the leader of a Dicastery like that of the interior. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, of course I ask you this question, because then the responsibility of the Government and all the Ministers lies with you. Look, it was not only the political forces that presented the motion of distrust today that denounced the omissions, indicated the lies and insisted on the need for the resignation of the Minister of the Interior. I could make a long list of quotations from authoritative members of your party, President Letta, and even today very hard speeches have been made in this House, demonstrating that there was obviously no instrumentality in the motion of distrust, but there was only the intention to ascertain the truth and above all to make sure that we took responsibility for what happened. It is clear, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that a vulnus - as you also mentioned here - has been created for the credibility of Italy. In fact, in a normal, democratic country, Alfano would resign, he would have felt the moral duty to resign; in a normal and truly democratic country, Parliament - to which it is very clear that the Minister has deceived - would now feel the duty to vote in favour of the motion of distrust. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] I return to the tone and authority of the statements of many members of the Democratic Party. Today, however, the PD Group will not vote in favour of the motion of no confidence, but not because it believes in the version of Minister Alfano. That is the point: I repeat, not because you believe the Minister's version. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] It will do just as the MPs of the PdL, who did not believe the joke of Ruby Mubarak's nephew, but they voted that lie and that joke because they were ordered to do it! [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] The Group of the Democratic Party today will vote against the motion of no confidence because, to defend the truth and dignity, it puts that of a majority and a government. Since this Commission was born as an answer to a state of necessity, then in the name of this state of necessity we must vote for everything. It could also happen that next week, in the name of the government's defense, they ask themselves to vote on the motion that says Christ died of cold! This could even happen. It is the state of necessity, which you have set as the foundation of the Government, that justifies everything. Do you think this is a good service to this country? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you think you can do a good service to yourself and the Democratic Party? [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] There is no doubt that the government loses a great deal of credibility from this issue, not only in terms of human rights and internal rights, but at international level. How many times have we heard that this government had to be done in order to regain credibility in the world and in Europe? Today we have once again lost this credibility on the human rights front. You think you're doing a favor, doing institutions good? The dignity of the institutions comes out of this affair. You should do this at least for the dignity of the institutions. Do we want to address once and for all, President, the dark side of our energy strategy and supply, the dark side that has seen us in recent years sacrificing human rights to alleged national interests? Presumed, Mr President, because the energy sovereignty of our country can be achieved in other ways, not by sacrificing ourselves with embarrassing friendships, with complicity with countries that trample on human rights. Do not think that this can end here, not because we will continue to deal with it (even if we do), but because other issues will come out. You know it won't end here, but we ask you, for the dignity of our country, to personally pick up Mrs. Shalabayeva and her little girl to take them back to Italy. At least you owe this to save the dignity of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u49	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister Alfano, President Letta, we appreciate that you are here today in the Senate for the motion of distrust of the Minister of the Interior. We have listened carefully to your reply and your appreciable way of teaming up, and that is a credit to you. And here I end my compliments. I tell you right away that the Northern League Group will not vote for the Minister's distrust; we will not vote for it because we think that, even if this affair has dark and disconcerting contours (I speak of what happened to the Kazakh citizen and to the minor daughter expelled and returned, almost deported, to a country where the protection of human rights is not adequately guaranteed), the responsibility for what happened is not attributable to the work of the Minister of the Interior, but to that of the entire Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Bonino and to his work as head of the Government. Mr President, how is it possible to carry out a measure with such speed, with a minor, and without proper verification and protection? What's even more serious is that your government has done everything in its power to cover up and hide the facts. This is a clear political responsibility. We would like this speed, President Letta, every day towards thousands of illegals, of the Kabobo on duty who arrive in our country, recalled by the good news of some members of his Government. [[Applause from the LNP Group]] Let me also say that one thing is the position of Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter, another thing is that of Ablyazov, one of the main opponents of Kazakh President Nazarbayev, who is yes a political refugee, but he is also a former banker wanted in Homeland for fraud and serious crimes. A non-transparent figure, to whom, President Letta, sources of Kazakh foreign affairs have disputed the subtraction of funds for 15 billion dollars; fled from Great Britain, where he was hiding, and where the Supreme Court itself ruled that Mr Ablyazov's bank assets, amounting to 4 billion dollars, must be returned to the bank. The Supreme Court of Great Britain also sentenced him to 22 months of detention for obstructing investigations and attempting to hide assets. Opposer and political refugee like Solženicyn or San Suu Kyi? Are they the same thing? Mr President, in reality, the strong embarrassment lies in the search carried out in his Roman home, which seemed to respond to logics that were not entirely clear, and the reconstruction of the story of the expulsion of Alma and the child is at least not clear, and as such was then assessed on the merits by other members of the Government and by the court. Our fear is that, when media attention on the case disappears, the two may be exposed to inhumane treatment, which is denounced as ordinary in Kazakhstan against political opponents. You must work on this and not let the attention go down; the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ambassador must work on this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Minister Bonino, you must work on this, to bring them back to Italy immediately. Mr Bonino, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, could not fail to know: how could he not be informed about such a delicate operation? This is the clarification that you must give: why were the fundamental rights of the diplomatic protection status of the young lady and the underage daughter trampled on? The ambassador of Kazakhstan speaks, like all ambassadors, Mr President, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not with the Ministry of the Interior, and indeed with the offices of the Interior. That is the point. If the embarrassing justification of the Farnesina were really true, we would be faced with a manifestation of dangerous amateurism; the statement made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs appears rather irrational, in the face of the gravity of the event, and risks further compromising the credibility of the country. Amateurism or strong bureaucracy, against a very weak policy, where the discretionary power of bureaucrats has become a clear problem. Officials who become ministers, former ministers who return to be officials but remain in politics. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You do not realize, President Letta, that you have been a doc politician since you wore short shorts, that this is the grave mistake! It is a government, President, that on the front of prestige and international consideration is recording humiliating results, as confirmed by the manifest inability to extradite multi-condemned murderers like Cesare Battisti [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and the improvisation and incompetence shown in the conduct of the well-known affair of the kidnapping of our two soldiers, of our two maroons. These are serious facts: two soldiers left at the mercy of a foreign country and only for having done their duty as Italians, abandoned by all, even by you! Then in these days it is painful to download the responsibilities, the internal political attacks on the Democratic Party, which have nothing to do with the Kazakh question, used as a ground of confrontation for your precongressional internal feuds, to the face of the Government of national responsibility! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The League will not vote for the confidence of Minister Alfano, ours will be one abstention. This does not mean that the North League would not gladly vote for you the distrust of what you promised, the book of dreams, that you are not realizing: on the cancellation of the IMU and VAT, on the reforms, on the public debt to 2,075 billion - other than return on the excessive debt that you referred to in the reply - [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group),]] on the tax wedge you don't want to lower, on the golden pensions you don't want to cut, on the federalism and the standard costs you put in the drawer, on the empty prisons, on the change of citizenship, on the ius soli that the Italians don't want, on the crime of illegal immigration that you want to cancel. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On this you have to go home, not on a matter, albeit embarrassing and disconcerting, like the Kazakh one. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u52	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, little remains to be added to today's debate. A disturbing story (unheard of, the Head of State has called it), an unworthy story of a country that wants to remain in the neighborhood of the great countries of the world. A story (I repeat what was said a few days ago) that plunges us back into the darkest nights of a Republic that clearly - and it is certainly not the responsibility of this Government - has not yet managed to adapt its operating systems, especially on the delicate issues of security, justice and international relations, to the demands of efficiency and effectiveness that in this world cannot be separated from command lines able to make transparent, when requested, the different passages of delicate decisions. It disturbs the reconstruction of the facts. It is worrying that the absolute conclusions of some people, the proclaimed extraneousness of others, the superficial "I don't know" of others still in relation to a story that ends in favour of a country, without reliable democratic credentials, which counts - and this is also disturbing - perhaps too many friends at European level, right and left, too many paid advisors, engaged more on the business than on spreading the virus of liberal and democratic ideas in the Kazakh people. We can therefore only stigmatize once again the most intolerable anomalies of this affair which reasonably legitimizes more than a suspicion in public opinion and also in those areas of political deployment, such as Civic Choice, which do not look with hostility, indeed, with confidence, at the action of its Government, President Letta. To discover today that the order of the raid - and I hope that this can be denied - has even been given by the office of the Minister's chief of staff does not help to overcome doubts about the effectiveness and efficiency of the chain of command, which cannot fail to make the Minister of the Interior himself reflect. It would be superficial, naive and wrong to go along with winding-up initiatives which have the sole purpose of interrupting the experience of this Government. But this cannot consider the Shalabayeva affair to be closed, nor does it exempt us from putting at the centre of our political and parliamentary agenda, also in view of the leadership of Europe next year, a different style and a reformist will not only of the rules but also of the behavior; a reformative will that alone can restore a dignity to us, Mr President - and you are well aware of this, as your words have testified - which has been severely affected. We want no more than ambassadors from countries discussed and questionable to roam the offices without those responsible for those offices putting them at the door, that there is no one who will promptly warn them about the rituality of all this, that senior officials do not report to their ministers, that close collaborators do not highlight the delicacy of situations involving people discussed and questionable in the international political chessboard, that officials do not know the difference between dissidents and terrorists, and I could continue. All this denotes inadequate professionalism, the shortcomings of which require interventions that go far beyond the resignation of a chief of staff. Politics, outraged by public opinion, also shaken that part of the state's senior leadership that operates in harmony with the spirit of the Constitution. This story shows a decadence of the institutions that is not born today, and this is the reason why political responsibility is assessed by us differently from how it should be considered if we were in a country in which civil, economic and social progress was followed by a similar adaptation of the state to the changed needs and expectations of the citizens. The State is the great sick person of our Italy. It is the public administration that needs to be thoroughly reformed. It is politics that cannot be anything else from the civil community. That is why we cannot interrupt the experience of this Government, even if, sooner or later, fellow senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we will have to overcome another Italian anomaly: the one that binds the destinies of governments, not only of this Government, in an indissoluble way to the consequences of the responsibilities, sometimes objective, sometimes administrative and sometimes criminal, and that must instead follow the normal, administrative and legal process of a rule of law that concerns this or that political exponent. Precisely because this is an atypical majority, the Government must, with a constituent spirit, give itself ambitious and innovative objectives, which we have suffered this morning, and that free citizens from the feeling that the power is still more than themselves or, worse, that governments, especially those based on broad understandings, resist, as President Casini recalled before, only to settle the debts contracted in the electoral campaign by the parties that support them. With today's vote, which is for us a vote of renewed confidence in the Government, because of the superficial and instrumental nature of the motion that calls for mistrust to the Minister of the Interior, we do not intend to dismiss our radical criticism of what happened. Ours is a demand for full clarity with regard to public opinion, and our conviction is that the President of the Council, in his autonomy, must find a way to sanction all the responsibilities of what happened (it is well to remind him) to a blameless mother (whoever her husband was, whatever character has, as criminal responsibility, within his country; or that he is recognized by us as a dissident rather than as a political exponent discussed) and to a six-year-old girl, who saw herself come into the house over forty people, were packed, taken to the airport and sent to a country hostile to them (even if it is their country). This is intolerable for all of us who believe in the values of democracy. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u55	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you and, in particular, Senator Berlusconi, who is here, and who is here, honours us with his presence and makes it clear who is actually holding this majority, together with the President of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thank you because, at last, you appaled to the eyes of the Italians what the truth is. And that is no disrespect, Mr Letta. But let's go by order. First of all, let me make this clear. The act we have proposed is not a motion of no confidence in the government. We would have presented it, in case there was a chance, because, in our opinion, you, as a government, are worth very little and you are further, if possible, sinking the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a motion of individual distrust of someone who should - I was hoping - have previously felt the need to shoulder their responsibilities, Minister Alfano. Because, as many colleagues have pointed out - and not only those who will vote in favour of the motion of distrust - what our country has done, because of the Government, is something that brings dishonour to all of us Italians. I found myself, like all of us in the Movement, in the words expressed by Senator Casson, in the words expressed by Senator Chiti, but also in the words expressed by many others, who pointed out that it is absolutely unacceptable, had also been wife and daughter of the worst exponent of the narcos, to hand over to a foreign authority, which is not sovereign to our home, two people whose rights have been, in an absolutely obvious way, violated. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] The positions of the European Union and many other institutions have been recalled, which have made it clear, if need be, that Italy has made a mistake. I expected, for example, from Minister Alfano, a very different behavior, that is that in haste and fury, and not today, not yesterday, he was ingenuating and committed himself to personally picking up these two people in Kazakhstan. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] I would remind you, Mr Letta, that for something, in my opinion, far less serious from a perspective of defending the dignity of the person (and here many people have filled their mouths with the dignity of the person) you spoke about a former Minister of yours to induce her to behave quite differently from what is keeping those who are now sitting on her right. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] I recall that at the beginning of June, when we in the Movement pointed out this case to the country, there were statements by Minister Chancellors, according to which everything had happened according to the procedures, according to the rules. In fact, we have understood what compliance with the procedures means, what compliance with the rules means. Article 95 of our Constitution is very clear, yet it seems to me, in its clarity, absolutely opaque for those who disregard the rules. And here, unfortunately, we produce the rules, but then we constantly disassemble them. Perhaps the government authority should first comply with the rule. Again, it is a woman and, as some have mentioned, we have committed ourselves unanimously to ratifying the Istanbul Convention. It's also, next to this woman, a six-year-old girl. In his initial speech, Mr De Cristofaro quoted Norberto Bobbio, who referred to the Leopardi of the "Zibaldone" and recalled the feeling of shame. They taught me, but perhaps I studied in particular schools, that shame could be a revolutionary feeling, proving it. We asked that in this House, and not only that, there should be shame in having had the barbaric courage to send them back to a country, which certainly did not welcome them with open arms, a woman and a six-year-old girl. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] , with procedures that define untimely and irrational is to use euphemisms. Yesterday, however, he spoke in the political debate, because this is a political debate, who is on the Colle, to demonstrate the fact...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u56	Excuse me, Senator Morra, no reference to the Head of State is permitted. Let's leave him out of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u57	[[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] MORRA (M5S). I think it is acceptable to think about it, and we do it out loud: for us all this is done in transparency. If I make a mistake, then it will have to be the citizens who assess. Our President of the Republic... I invited her to leave him out. MORRA (M5S). Our President of the Republic shared, I quote, President. No, you can't quote him. MORRA (M5S). An unheard-of history, a precipitous expulsion, based on a regressive and distorting representation, and on unacceptable pressure and interference of foreign diplomats. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Closed the quote. MORRA (M5S). Great. We agree perfectly with the analysis. The problem is what we are faced with, because we have heard from several quarters, even today, also from the President of the Council, that we are entering here into an overall issue that does not concern the individual responsibilities of someone, of a single person, but in practice invests in the future of the country. And the future of the country - hear, hear - is decided by the markets. I thought: from us Italians, from the ability of us Italians to know how to defend our dignity and our sovereignty. But perhaps the markets are more important for certain people, for certain political forces. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And then, depending on what it might be, the government must still be defended. Then I ask myself: why was this evaluation not made for former minister Josefa Idem? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Perhaps we are not all equal and in fact the presence of a senator, exactly Senator Berlusconi, who is here for the third time - I correct, the second here, the third was when we gathered together to elect the President of the Republic, then in Montecitorio - clearly shows who is pulling the ranks of the Government. Well, I'm going to conclude. Why are we here? Because two people were delivered hastily, and certainly not in compliance with the rules, to a foreign state. But what is this foreign state? It is not just any state, because they were probably citizens not of a partner country of the ENI, not of a country that finds itself immense availability of natural gas and oil, we would probably have - and it is ironic of the fate that it is up to me to do this recovery of memory - perhaps adopted that sharpness, that prudence but also that call to our dignity that allowed years and years ago, to Sigonella, not to grant someone to the United States. At the time there was a President of the Council - we have to admit - who remembered that Italy was a sovereign country and not a country with limited sovereignty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Say the name! MORRA (M5S). That was Bettino Craxi. We remember that, don't we? [[Comments.]] Thank you. VOICES. Name it! SANTANGELO (M5S). Shut up! MORRA (M5S). I did. President Silence, let me finish, please. Please come to the conclusion, Senator Morra, time is already up. MORRA (M5S). Mr President, excuse me, this demonstrates the listening ability we have between us. I simply say this: today paradoxically, but perhaps also symbolically, the anniversary of the death of a servant, he did, of the State, as you rightly pointed out. A servant who, due to his observance of the rules, is no longer there, because he has been brutally killed in a very serious attack. Very well, we would like everyone, from the number one in the chain of command (since this is about the chain of command) to the zero number, to the number one hundred thousand in this chain of command, to remember that a democratic and civil country can continue to exist only and only if truth and justice are combined. Today we would also like to remember Salvatore Borsellino, and we wonder where his red agenda ended. [[The Senators of the M5S Group show red cards.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u58	Please, these things aren't allowed in the Senate. We must remember Paolo Borsellino: I do not believe that Salvatore Borsellino is still in a position to be commemorated. Please delete the "agends." [[Applause from the PD, PdL, GAL, SCpI, LN-Aut and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u61	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, allow me to make a statement about my political and personal concern, namely that with this matter, which needs to be thoroughly examined, and with some of its distortions, the credibility of our country is at stake in terms of the right of reception and human rights, on which we are second to none. I say this because it is a matter to be deepened, but that must not make all of us - political class and Italian citizens - forget that our country, in the emergency of immigration (I think of Lampedusa or Puglia, on the occasion of the Albanian landings), has been able to open its doors to those who asked for help and those who needed it to survive. This is an unforgettable value, which we must not hide and we must not put into play at what has happened. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] Strange things have happened, colleagues: strange things because, it is true, there have been expulsion measures, but they have been properly authorized by the judiciary. Strange things, because Mrs. Shalabayeva did not seek political asylum and showed a passport then turned out to be artifacts in the same way as that found by the investigative bodies. Strange things have happened, because of this subject, Ablyazov, different versions and images have been given: political dissident on the one hand, while on the other it turns out to be prosecuted for crimes committed outside his country, from 2005 to 2008, in England. When he lived there he was guilty of some crimes, committed in that country, whose authorities stood out against him orders of an international nature. We would like to understand very well, therefore, over time, what this has been about, in this dynamic that actually has dark points, but which must be seen with objective neutrality. At the same time, there is talk of a dictator - I shall now dwell on this definition - about the President of Kazakhstan. However, this pseudodictator received countless foreign honors from Austria, Belgium, Egypt, France, Japan, Russia, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg; and Italy: on 4 May 1997, on a proposal from the President of the Romano Prodi Council, President Scalfaro conferred the honour of Knight of the Grand Cross decorated by Grand Cordone of the Order on the merit of the Italian Republic. And then Nazarbayev himself had meetings with almost all the political leaders and heads of state of the world. So, calling a dictator a person of this rank and with this curriculum leaves me puzzled that certain demagogy could have affected the connotation of the evaluations made in the previous days. Why do we say that? We do this to confirm even more the transparency, honesty and correctness of the Minister of the Interior [[Applause from the PdL Group]] , which - I am pleased that colleagues in the PD have also said so - did not ask for any committee of inquiry to cover up the papers, but asked the Chief of Police for a report in a very short time, brought it here, in this Parliament, before we learned it from the newspapers the next day, so that we were fully aware of it, gave its reasons and announced its measures. I would like to remind you, and I am honored to do so, of the words of the Head of State, who said yesterday firmly and with great authority: there is no principle of objective responsibility in the institutions: those who fail pay. But if a minister is not informed by his chain of command of certain operations, I do not see under what political, institutional, ethical and social principle he must pay. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] Also because I would like to remind you of something, and not to make controversy, but to bring everything back to an appeal made in this House by my dear wise friend, Sandro Biondi: let us not spread out as political forces and let the political debate expire at the embarrassment. [[Senator Giro's applause.]] Because Mr President - these are the words of President Vendola - as long as Alfano remains in his place, this Government is immoral; the Minister who is not worthy of office has made himself an accomplice to the dictator. I would then like to ask a question to Senator De Petris: was President Vendola, when he saw the judiciary intervene through protective custody measures of the vice president of the Region and the city council member at the time to health care, complicit in these men who were arrested? We did not say that, because it is not part of our history and it is not part of our culture. [[Applause from the PdLe LAG Groups. Senator De Petris' comments.]] It's not like that. It is right and proper, then, that in my speech, not only the reasons for the no to distrust, but also a brief mention of the figure of Mr Alfano. It would be easy for me, notoriously of his region, personal and political friend of Angelino Alfano, to be able to weave human and political praises. I don't. I want to talk about the Alfano man of the institutions, because here we are evaluating the behavior of a man of the institutions. And we are talking about a man of the institutions who, as a young Minister of Justice, distinguished himself for having tightened up 41- bis, for having tightened up 416- bis, for having had strict rules on Mafia seizures adopted in this House. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]] He became the protagonist in order to unlock competitions in the judiciary, and in two years he hired a thousand magistrates, strengthening the border offices against the Camorra, the 'ndrangheta and the Mafia, and he introduced, for the first time in our legislation, Mr President, the word 'ndrangheta: he had this courage, and we are grateful for that. [[Applause from the PdL Groups]] , LAG and the Undersecretary Vicari). Even the Interior Minister Alfano has already worked well. More than a hundred fugitives caught. The flagship of our Government, of the Letta Government, was the capture of Pietro Labate, a Calabrian who was among the first hundred fugitives in order of danger. I also remember the management of immigration on our island of Lampedusa. There is an emergency, but Italy is not worried because Minister Alfano and the Government are managing it with care, with care and with a sense of welcome; immigrants arrive, but they are sorted out quickly and with order through our means of transport and with air bridges. And it is done with a sense of responsibility, without clamor and without demagogy. We are united, then, on Minister Alfano, as a Group, as a parliamentary class and as electors. And we do not want the internal tensions of some parties to be able to get down on this issue. We greatly appreciated the words of the President-in-Office of the Council, who today, in the face of this vote of distrust, called into question the confidence of his Government: a confidence which we once again reaffirm in a convinced and responsible manner. [[Applause from the PdL Groups]] , LAG and Senator Romano). In fact, Mr President, the country, as the President of the Republic said yesterday, cannot allow itself to be invented and abyssed, which would see Italians fall into an even more serious crisis than what we are experiencing. We must deal with the problems of citizens and the country; then political tensions must be kept out of a government that we wanted, that we support with loyalty, transparency and conviction, even more today after the responsible words of the President of the Council. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]] We have been educated by President Berlusconi to a principle, which I am honored to say in this House: the principle of responsibility. We are a responsible party and have been educated in the cult of responsibility, transparency and loyalty. We do not hide behind a finger when we have problems to pose within the Commission or to be exposed to Italian citizens. We don't back out, we don't hide. We do not wish then, and we hope that this will not happen, that the internal tensions in other parties may cloud the courage of these broad agreements which we have challenged to go on until yesterday, at the holding of the royal booth at Palazzo Chigi, during which the President of the Council, as he said today in this House, announced structural measures for the abolition of the IMU on the first house. We take note of this and thank him. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] It is the responsibility of a party that has lived and lives delicate moments and days. But we live them with serenity, because the example that Silvio Berlusconi is giving us gives us the strength to move forward and to support this Executive. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups]] Because we have faith in a justice that, in the end, will be able to restore to those who are right the dignity, honesty and innocence that has always been claimed and that will certainly be proclaimed from here to a few days. [[Live applause from the PDL and LAG groups. Congratulations. Ironic applause from Senator Sonego.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u64	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, in our system, the vote of confidence in the government or a single minister always has a political value. Politics is its nature and its political effects are its effects, and today the presence in the Chamber of President Letta (which I thank very much for his speech) accentuates the political character of the vote on the motion of distrust that the Groups Movimento Cinque Stelle and Misto-Left Ecology and Freedom have presented to Minister Alfano on the case of the expulsion of the Kazakh town Alma Shalabayeva and his daughter Alua. A history of unheard of gravity, as the President of the Republic called it. The Senators of the Democratic Party will vote against the motion of no confidence, and they will do so with full awareness of the need to ensure continuity in government action. But also knowing how much the case of the two Kazakh towns is far from being considered closed. Only a complete truth can allow its storage; only a full transparency of the facts on which we learn every day from the media new details, on the respect of the laws, on the functioning of the chain of demand and - above all - on which forces, what interests and what connivances have moved like puppets the Italian police forces towards objectives still unknown in Parliament. In this House I certainly do not need to say much about the need for good governance for Italy in 2013, and President Letta reminded us very well just now. The dramatic data of the Bank of Italy on the severity of the crisis and the ISTAT document on the continuous increase in the number of citizens in absolute poverty are the most evident confirmation of the need for the Government to continue its work without interruption. The reasons why, three months ago, the Democratic Party helped to give Italy a Government chaired by its National Deputy Secretary did not fail. We know that the work to be done is still long and we intend to continue to support the work of consolidation with our political action and our parliamentary support. These are the assessments that lead us to confirm, with conviction, the confidence of the Letta Government and, consequently, to reject the motion of distrust of two opposition parties against Mr Alfano, Minister for the Interior. Within this political framework, however, it is our duty to publicly express here in Parliament a very severe judgment on the expulsion from Italy to Kazakhstan of Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter; on the manner in which it took place; on the consequences on the two women; on the responsibilities of the apparatuses and political authority. Yes, also on the political responsibilities of political authority, Minister Alfano. In a healthy democracy, all acts of public administration, especially if they are as important as the expulsion of an adult woman and a child to a country of very little democracy, must be able to be referred, as well as to the material authors, also to the political power, to which the responsibility for the direction and control of the management of administrative bodies must always be attributed. Mr Alfano, this is not an objective responsibility (it is a concept that I have always hated), but it is the Constitution of the Italian Republic. And I must thank very much, in this regard, Senator Josefa Idem for the gesture of political generosity that she wanted to carry out with her resignation a few weeks ago. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Buemi]] In the Kazakh case the known facts are frankly unacceptable, not only for us democratic senators, but for all Italians, right, centre or left. These are acts that have damaged Italy's honour all over the world. I do not want to do here now, again, the unpleasant chronicle of those days, but the same report of the Chief of Police, which was read in this Chamber last Tuesday, highlighted how for twenty-four hours in Rome, at the end of May, an operation of the Italian Police, with a broad array of forces, was carried out totally under the control and direction of Kazakh diplomats, with the result that we know: the expulsion in record time of a woman and a child, the private plane used for their transport, the denunciations for ill-treatment. And then the weeks spent in inertia. And only the great scandal has shaken the authorities and promoted the first investigations. Today we have learned from a great newspaper - I hope it is not true - that even the order of the raid would be given by telephone to the police by a Kazakh diplomat who was in a room of the Ministry of the Interior. The affair of Mrs. Shalabayeva and her daughter also resulted in the resignation of Prefect Giuseppe Procaccini from the office of head of cabinet of the Minister of the Interior. I was struck by the way in which Dr Procaccini resigned because on that occasion he told him that Minister Alfano, in asking him to receive the Kazakh ambassador at the Viminale, had explained to him that it was a very delicate matter. And this passage is not clear. GIOVANARDI (PdL). That's very clear. ZANDA (PD). For the sake of full transparency, it is very important for the Minister to explain in detail how, even before the meeting between Procaccini and the ambassador, he already knew that the problems that the ambassador intended to submit to the Viminale were very delicate. If the Minister, who rightly did not want to meet the ambassador, knew that his chief of staff would be subject to very sensitive matters, perhaps he should also know something about why this delicacy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It seems to me that this clarification of the reasons for the whole operation, which so far has not been, is essential to begin to approach the truth. In fact, the points to be clarified are not only the possible errors of the Police and the cognitive block of which the Prefect Pansa spoke: there is to understand which topics, which interests, which hands or hand have set in motion the investigative-repressive machine of the Italian Police. In fact, let us also say that this is the first and most relevant mystery to be clarified. It is clear that such a broad plot, such rapidity, so many means would not have been possible without an economic or political, probably oblique, major commission - I use this term. Because you see, Minister, we are dealing with a country that is dripping with gas, with a President with a reputation for despot, with an opponent also of uncertain name but with political asylum in Great Britain and with a prison sentence to be served, followed by Russian and Kazakh arrest warrants. And then there are two women extradited from the Italian Police, who appeared to move under the orders of a foreign ambassador, and carried by force to a country where human rights are constantly trampled on and which considers them the wife and daughter of a powerful opponent of the regime. There is too much mystery, too much money, too much mischief so as not to force us to ask everyone, even the government, to help us understand, to clarify. Clarity is not only a need for legality and transparency, and I thank Senator Manconi and the Senate Human Rights Commission for their work. Clarity certainly also calls for police forces, whose democracy is out of the question, but which must not remain in doubt that they have been used for non-justice purposes. This is a very important point. Police are sensitive and sensitive organisms. It is our duty to protect them with the most absolute linearity of direction, dedicating ourselves with much dedication and generosity to their care. I say this by the way, Mr Alfano. But perhaps it might be useful to consider whether, in the 24 hours of your day, there is sufficient time for the secretariat of your party, the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the PdL Group]] Important officials of the State Police have been induced or have decided to leave their posts in relation to the conduct of the events of the Kazakh affair. Leaving office under certain circumstances is one of the duties of the servants of the State. At a time when, although it is not yet clear, we reject the motion against Minister Alfano, we must also remember that servants of the State must be not only civil servants, but also ministers of the Republic. [[Extending applause from Senator Endrizzi's PD, SCPI and Mixed-SELE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-SEL and Senator Gambaro groups. Comments of Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u66	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u67	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I would like to comfort all my colleagues in this House that some of the senators who are sitting on these benches will not vote for the motions of distrust, of course with respect and respect for the government and for the reasons just put forward by our leader, Mr Zanda. I would simply like to support further what our Group president has already said by saying... [[Protests from the benches of the PdL.]] Formigoni (PdL). That's not possible! What are you saying? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Puppato speak, who is making a dissenting explanation of vote. Excuse me, Senator Puppato, but you have to say how you vote. PUPPATE (PD). Of course, ma'am. I'm saying it. For our part, we think we need to turn on and keep on... president. I'm reminding you, you're intervening in dissent. PUPPATE (PD). I'm explaining it. As I said, for our part we think we have to light and keep a light on compared to this story that has seen so many shadows. I want to remind you that from all sides, and not only from the opposition, but also from my party and others who support this Government, the issue has been considered a priority and the situation we are experiencing is deeply dismayed. Therefore, this is an explanation of vote on the motion of no confidence presented by the oppositions, not to the Government, but to a single member of the Executive, who - in fact - is the Interior Minister Alfano: some of us, limited to this issue, will take a position simply not considering that we can vote on the confidence of Minister Alfano. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u68	Excuse me, Senator Puppato, but it's a motion of no confidence. I therefore ask you to clarify your position.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u69	PUPPATE (PD). We will not vote on the motion of no confidence and we will abstain and therefore, in essence, we will not vote on the confidence of Mr Alfano. [[Protests from the PdL Group. Applause from Senator Bottici.]] MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Rules of Procedure! Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet or we shall suspend the sitting. PUPPATE (PD). There are two additional elements for the benefit of this position. [[Comments from the PdL Group. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u70	Quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u71	PUPPATE (PD). The first is in relation to the statements made by two authoritative members of the PdL. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, what appears outside this House is that in some way there is someone within the Government whose responsibility for the role played cannot be challenged in any way. When it's said by President Berlusconi... [[Protests from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, please put an end to this speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u73	Senator Puppato, please conclude. PUPPATE (PD). Okay, but I've also been very disturbed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm asking the senators to let Senator Puppato finish. PUPPATE (PD). When it is said by President Berlusconi that Alfano is untouchable, we return to 1900, to India of castes and untouchables. [[Protests from the PdL Group.]] As a rule, the highest representatives of the Republic must be responsible and exemplary, and not untouchable! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puppato, I've already invited you to conclude your speech. PUPPATE (PD). When former Minister Rotondi reminds us of our duty as an alliance, I would like to remind him, as to Senator Bondi, that the alliance presupposes loyalty, responsibility, correctness and non-subalternity and subjection to the political ally. [[Protests from the PdL Group. The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u74	Senator Puppato, I have invited you several times to conclude your speech. Do not force me to permanently disable the microphone: please, finish now.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u75	PUPPATE (PD). One last minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you have to finish right away. PUPPATE (PD). The solidarity that Senator Bondi called for this morning from these benches cannot see the party's coverage of the responsibilities of the government's highest offices. Solidarity is towards the weakest: this is the diction on the vocabulary. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Protests from the PdL Group. Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u76	I refer, pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, to the roll-call vote on motion 1-00110, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. I would remind you that every colleague called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. Since many requests for derogation from the call order have been received, I am obliged not to accept any derogation, except for very serious and documented requirements. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and LN-Aut groups.]] I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Scalia is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Scalia. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, appealed. The senators: Airola Barozzino, Battista, Bencini, Bertorotta, Blundo, Bocchino, Bottici, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Campanella, Cappelletti, Casaletto, Casson, Castaldi, Catalfo, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Cotti, Crimes De Cristofaro, De Petris, Donno Endrizzi Fattori, Fucksia Gaetti, Giarrusso, Girotto Lezzi, Lucidi Mangili, Martelli, Marton, Mastrangeli, Molinari, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Mussini Nugnes Orellana Pagglini, Pepe, Petraglia, Petrocelli, Puglia Santangelo, Scibona, Serra, Simeoni, Stefano Taverna Uras Vacciano. Senators say no: Aiello, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Alberti, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Aracri, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Berger, Berlusconi, Bernini, Bianco, Bianconi, Bilardi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Bonfrisco, Borioli, Broglia, Bruni, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Caliendo, Colucci, Compagna, Compagnone, Conti, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alì, Dalla Tor, D'Anna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Monte, De Poli, De Sichino, Del Barba, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alberi Casellati, De Biasi, De Sichino The senators shall refrain from: Arrigoni Bellot, Bisinella, Bitonci Calderoli, Candiani, Centinario, Comaroli, Consiglio Davico, Divina Munerato Stefani. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked to speak to Senator Casson. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u77	Mr President, I apologise to you and your colleagues for the mistake I made, for which I obviously take responsibility. When I went by the chair just now, I voted yes. It is a mistake, because, as is clear from the text of my speech this morning, the question of trust was raised by President Letta, I meant and intend to vote for the government. So, in conclusion (in order not to be mistaken I also wrote it), I apologize to everyone for the misunderstanding and I repeat that my vote must be understood as "no".
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u78	The Presidency takes note of this and will remain in the minutes. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I therefore declare the vote closed. I invite the secretary senators to proceed with the numbering of votes. (Secretary Senators number the votes.) I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 1-00110, of individual distrust of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Angelino Alfano, presented by Senator Giarrusso and other senators: [[Senators present 295 Senators voting 294 Majority 148 Favorables 55 Contrari 226 Absent 13]] The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u79	I would like to inform you that, in relation to the progress of the work of the Commissions and subject to agreements between the Groups, the order of subjects set out in the next week's timetable is reversed. Therefore, the first item on the agenda of the sessions of Tuesday 23 July will be placed the bill of conversion of the decree-law 1 July 2013, n. 78, in the matter of execution of the sentence. I also inform you that the new deadline for tabling amendments to the Decree-Law on the revival of employment and VAT will be fixed in relation to the progress of the work of the relevant Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u82	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, as you know, a conference is currently taking place in the Zuccari Room, which you have kindly authorised - and I take this opportunity to thank you - on voting abroad, with the participation of parliamentarians from other countries. The speed with which everything took place meant that I came to the end of the vote. For the record, my vote would have been against the motion of no confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u83	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u86	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, following your speech this morning in commemoration and remembrance of Paolo Borsellino and his escort friends, I should like to make a brief comment. At the moment I note the inevitable inadequacy of words and expressions that fully represent a personal and community feeling. Only the noble and suffering witness expressed in the epistolary version, and carved in the rock of the heart of family life, intense and exemplary, comforts and helps us to recover meaning and meaning, pedagogy of irreducible and indispensable value. The letter was written last year by his wife Agnese: "Dear Paul, for twenty long years you have left this land to reach the Kingdom of Heaven: a time when I shed bitter tears, while the mouth was smiling, the heart wept without understanding, amazed, lost, trying to know. Today it comforts me to possess three precious jewels: Lucia, Manfredi, Fiammetta; symbols of wisdom, purity, love, possess that love that you have known to spread around you, dear Paul, becoming immortal. You have left a beautiful legacy, today collected by the boys from all over Italy; I have ideally adopted many other children, united in your memory from the North to the South. We're not alone. I would like to remind you: you have been a wonderful father and husband, you have been a faithful, yes, a faithful servant of the State, an exemplary model of Italian citizen. You remain for us a great man, because before the announced death you gave without protecting yourself and being protected the greater good, life, sure to redeem with your death those who had lost the dignity of man and shake consciences. How many people you've converted! I do not forget: you asked for communion at the palace of justice on the eve of the long journey to eternity, journey undertaken with heavenly serenity, carrying with you the eyes imbued with clarity, a look with the smile as a child that we will never forget. On this anniversary, please protect and help all the young people on whom you have always poured all your hopes and deserving of finding a worthy place in the world of work. You said, "You are our future, you must use the talents you possess, do not give up in the face of difficulties." I can still hear your voice with these expressions that convey courage, joy of life, optimism. You possessed the will to always give the best of yourself. With these memories we all say to you "thank you Paul." The letter is signed by Agnese Borsellino. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u87	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-73.ana.u88	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 23 July, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.19 a.m.
