ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5.30 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 4 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u6	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, at the afternoon sitting on 5 June last, the colleague of the 5 Star Movement, Senator Giarrusso, spoke in this Chamber to denounce very serious events that occurred on the night between 29 and 31 May in Casal Palocco, Rome's outskirts, when about fifty people, then policemen in bourgeois, broke into a small house and, after at least a rough search, took Mrs Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter Alua six years old (repeat: six years). The woman, accused of having shown a passport deemed false by the police present, was transferred to the CIE of Porto Galeria, while her daughter was entrusted to her grandparents. Despite attempts, there was no chance for lawyers to speak to the lady. Having then a peace judge confirmed that the lady's passport was counterfeited, there was a very rapid procedure that led to the accompaniment of the lady herself and her daughter at Ciampino airport, where a private Austrian plane was stationed, rented by the Kazakh Government, which brought the two women back to Astana. Despite the size of the operation and the disproportionate number of agents involved, few newspapers have highlighted the matter. On July 5, Turin's Press re-launched the desperate appeal of the lady's husband. Mr Mukhtar Ablyazov is a staunch opponent of the President of Kazakhstan Nazarbayev, a real dictator who seems to enjoy good friendships in our country, and perhaps not only in our country. On the same day there was news of the fact that the special section of the Rome review court acknowledged that there were serious violations in the procedures in relation to the various police invasions in the house of Rome in which, since September 2012, the two women (one of whom, I repeat, is a six-year-old girl) lived. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We know that President Letta has assured - these are the President's words - an internal audit of the governing bodies that reconstructs the facts and highlights any critical aspects. We in the 5 Star Movement believe that these are not serious, but very serious facts, and we cannot be content with a simple internal investigation. We are talking here about a very serious responsibility of the Commission, which has endorsed and supported a genuine procedure of kidnapping on behalf of third parties, for foreign governments! We've seen these episodes before!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u7	Senator Morra, I remind you that you are making an intervention on the order of business, to which you are entitled. However, make your request. The substance of the matter will have to be addressed with due attention and with the arrangements that we will decide. MORRA (M5S). Mr President, it seems to me that this House should have started for ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it is not a matter of ten minutes: it is as if it were an end-of-session speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u8	We have already seen these things: but we will not accept truths of convenience. We want the President-in-Office of the Council to come and report to the House, because we believe that there is a centrality of Parliament in a very short time and that, above all, he does not suggest half-truths or domesticated truths to save someone from very serious responsibilities, which appear obvious and which invest the highest levels of this Government. And maybe, we would also like the press and media not always to take into account the weight of the ENI or who knows who else, but to try to know and tell truth, even if it is uncomfortable for the property, because for us of the 5 Star Movement the rights of people are worth more than companies, even if Italian. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u11	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I too have read in the press the facts to which Senator Morra has now referred: I consider them to be serious, if they correspond to what has been said. I would therefore like to join my colleague in soliciting an information from the Government adapted to the seriousness of the issues mentioned and comprehensive. I would like to thank you if you would like to make this request through the Government. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u12	I agree with the group's request. The Presidency will also make the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u15	Olivero (SPI). Mr President, the Civic Choice Group also supports this request. The facts, as reported by the press, are extremely serious and, as has already been mentioned today, report particularly inconvenient situations, since they concern even minor ones that, if the circumstances were confirmed, would be hostage in a very complex international game. I think it is important for the dignity of our country that we make complete clarity about this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u18	EXPOSED Joseph (PdL). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists also supports the request for information on this subject. If for some parts it is not possible to have information for existing international agreements, there is the COPASIR that is delegated to examine such incidents throughout Parliament. For the public part, open, however, we ask for an information of the Government. [[Applause from Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u21	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, certainly the questions raised by the article in La Stampa, if they correspond to truth, are particularly disturbing facts that recall other events that have happened in our country in the past years. There is therefore an absolute need for clarity and I agree with the request that the Government should come and report to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u22	The solicitation seems to be widely shared. The Presidency will promote the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u25	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I agree with the previous request made by my fellow Members, who seem very pertinent to me, and I would also like to take advantage of another request: to be able to deal with another very serious incident in the past days with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At a joint session of the Foreign Committees of the House and Senate, we had the opportunity to meet with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to raise the matter. However, since the answer has left us quite perplexed, I repeat in the Chamber that we would like to understand well what happened to the intercontinental flight Moscow-La Paz, in which there was the president of the Bolivian Republic Evo Morales. The plane was blocked or, better, the aircraft was not allowed to fly over certain European countries, including Italy. President, I understand that we are talking about something else, but I would ask that the Senate House be able to address this issue which is causing the very hard protests of all Latin America. As these are fundamental immunity granted to the Heads of State, I believe that the Senate of the Italian Republic should speak and apologize to the President of Bolivia for the very serious incident that has occurred in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u26	Your Group will be able to take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u27	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1. I would remind you that in the afternoon sitting on 4 July the voting of the articles of the draft law in title was completed. I would also remind you that no amendments have been tabled to motion for a resolution No 3, which was accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u30	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, with the approval of the 2013 European delegation bill and the 2013 European bill, the Senate is doing a great deal of work: it is finishing an innovative job and recovering a year of lack of legislative activity in this area. Mr President, Minister, on a road of 104 steps, we are making 20 steps, rising in the image, even at European level: this is not just a simple step forward, but a long road that Italy has ahead of it. It can be expected that the beginning of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, scheduled for the second half of 2014, will see Italy in an exemplary virtuous position. Unfortunately, as far as the method is concerned, too many times in the past, we have used the habit of transposing Community directives only when the infringement procedure is opened, and then being forced to legislate under pressure of necessity and very quickly, often without any logic and practicability: the result are failing examples, such as the SISTRI (waste traceability control system), as well as the provisions on safety at work, and more. It seems more necessary than ever to take the path of action and abandon that of pure reaction, ensuring the timely transposition of the directives before the opening of the relevant infringement procedures. There is, however, a clear contradiction in our behaviour: let us try to do everything we can to avoid having to give up the funds that any unclosed infringement costs us (EUR 30-40 million, according to the information you have given us, Minister); on the other hand, we run the risk of having to return EUR 18 billion to the European Union for lack of spending capacity on the Structural Funds (the Social Fund, the Rural Development Fund, etc.). It is mid-2013 that we are six months away from the end of the financial year, and we have committed only 37% of the funds available, with the risk of the return of 18 billion euros: this cannot be! For this reason, I believe that in the current situation we must remind the Regions of their responsibilities, knowing that there are regions that, at the moment, still have 80% to spend, having committed only 20% of the seven-year programming. Minister, there are a couple of contradictions: state co-financing and regional co-financing from Community funds should encourage the development of one country and should give a boost to the other side, coming under the Stability Pact; yet, there is a brake and there are regions that with this way of acting present some problems. I therefore believe that we must give the opportunity to spend on the most virtuous subjects, finding also the method of rewarding them, through the possibility of shifting funds from those who cannot spend them to those who have the ability to do so. I am speaking at this moment as a former agricultural commissioner of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, where we are almost 100% of the funds committed and where we could spend additional money for millions of euros, should they be available to us. At this moment, Minister, I believe that everything must be done to avoid the loss of these billions of euros, because this would not only be a present loss, but would also be a loss for the future, since the allocation and allocation of funds for the future will also be made on a historical basis, taking into account the spending capacity of the past programming period. That is why the success of the President-in-Office's report on the closure of the infringement procedure and the limits of indebtedness, the provision of new funds for employment and research and greater flexibility are factors that indicate that we are moving on the right track. I believe that this has been a masterpiece of the Government, of the President of the Council and also of you, Minister. We are on the road to the United States of Europe, and Italy has returned to the A-series countries. I therefore believe that we must silence those who question this Government and in this way also the future of Italy, to whom the future of Europe is linked. In conclusion, as a member of the 14th Commission, Policies of the European Union, I would like to thank President Chiti, the rapporteurs, Senators Tarquinio, Cociancich, Giovanni Mauro and Cardinali, and all the members of the Commission for their work and for their sensitivity towards our linguistic minority in accepting the agenda with which they are asked that the Regions have the possibility to request, for additional social and welfare awards, even higher thresholds than those laid down by law: this is an effect that applies to everyone, not only to residents, but also to third country nationals. It would have been even better, Mr President, if I could have said that Amendment 7,100 to draft law No 588 was also respected and voted on. However, given your reaction and the misunderstanding that has led to this outcome, I am very confident that another forum will be able to approve this measure. The Group for the Autonomies will therefore vote in favour of the measures under consideration: we hope that this method, based on collaboration and sensitivity towards the autonomous and minority languages, will advance our interests and the basis of our cooperation. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI, PD and PDL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the SEL component of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of the 2013 European delegation law, because undoubtedly the work done within the Commission and then in this House has been positive in many respects. Maybe we start on the right foot also compared to the past (maybe the split helps us) because, in indicating the criteria for the transposition of directives, which are very important, indeed, even compared to other experiences of the past, we have created the conditions for a fair transposition of them, even with absolutely fundamental innovations, that perhaps on some issues on the one hand, will bring Italy up to date with European legislation and, on the other, they will be able to bring it even a little bit further than other countries. In particular, I would like to refer to the positive results that have been obtained on an issue that is particularly important to us and that concerns the whole game of human rights, an issue on which some infringement procedures had opened for our country, being absolutely far from European standards. We have certainly achieved important results with regard to the issue of refugees, and I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Chiti and the Minister for this. Similarly, Directive 2011/36/EU on trafficking in human beings is particularly important to us because it concerns children and women in particular. These are, in short, issues on which we hope there will be a proper transposition of the directives by the Government in order to make real progress. Another important issue concerns a number of environmental directives. I have already said in general discussion that most of the infringement procedures against us have concerned the environment, so I hope that this time on some crucial directives for our country, a sign of modernization and future investments, we can be absolutely impeccable. This is the Europe that we like, certainly not that of the fiscal compact; therefore, we can give a positive signal in this regard too. One issue that has been very much debated and which is particularly close to our Group's heart is that referred to in Article 12 of Law No. 587, which concerns vivisection. It is certainly not - ahinoi! - the day when we say no to vivisection; it is certainly not its overcoming, which remains our objective, but these provisions undoubtedly represent a turning point, an example also for other countries, because we have introduced - and for this I thank my fellow senators for the cross-cutting work that has been done - a series of indications for the transposition of the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes which are really important, because they constitute a concrete advance, and not a chatter, against the suffering of animals. This article establishes fundamental criteria, such as directing research to the use of alternative methods, thus establishing the recognition of a scientific principle and an ethical science also responsible for the fact that each species is in itself, and that therefore it is an interest for human health and for men to begin to implement more and more alternative methods. Moreover, the ban on the use of dogs, cats and primates and the ban on breeding them are established. I quote these, but there are other important issues, such as the issue of staff training, on which a special agenda has been presented. Certainly, from this point of view, the results obtained are important. I add the obligation to ban experiments for war purposes and the prohibition of procedures that do not include anaesthesia, other absolutely fundamental measures. In essence, I can say that a step forward has been taken which represents a sign of civilization. For this we are truly grateful. On the other hand, however, with regard to European law, there is a painful note: we hope to be able to overcome that list of infringement procedures against our country that grows day by day and to be able to give an answer in this regard. I would also like to highlight a long-standing issue on which we have found a meeting point, which concerns derogations from hunting. They should be derogations to protect protected species but, on the contrary, they have been used in our country to increase the number of huntable species. I would remind you that we have already been condemned by the European Court and that we are in the process of being condemned again. We had put forward a number of proposals which, in our view, did not, once and for all, allow us to deal with further problems at European level. Of course, there has been an improvement, even if not as we would have liked. I would also like to highlight another issue in this House. Article 117 of our Constitution, in point (s), clearly and unequivocally states - and I say this also for those who in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered some of our amendments to be impervious - that the environment and the ecosystem fall within the exclusive competence of the State. Hunting falls within the competence of the regions, but I would remind you that we are talking about an issue which is specific to derogations. We have found a solution; an important agenda for the system of controls has been adopted in order to implement them. However, we want to reaffirm a fundamental principle concerning fauna, all environmental systems and biodiversity: it could not be but the exclusive competence of the State, since it is the heritage that belongs to all of us and that we must absolutely protect. From this point of view we will have to do an important job, also in order to reach a greater awareness. We cannot ignore - and that is why we will also vote in favour of European law - that, however, an effort has been made, and I also thank the rapporteur here for the work he has done. I shall end the speech with the hope that the two laws will also be adopted as soon as possible in the House of Deputies, in order to inaugurate a different way for our country to bind itself to European legislation and to be a diligent part of the construction of those famous United States of Europe that we often fill our mouths with. We must participate in concrete terms, making improvements also to European legislation, especially in those areas that will allow our country to participate in progress. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Cirinna and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u36	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the work of the Commission and of the House, the opinion of the North-Autonomous League Group on the political scope of the measures being adopted can only be critical. Minister, we certainly appreciate your commitment to the Commission, but that is outside the overall political assessment. Let us begin immediately with the clarification that we do not agree at all with the statement made by some of our colleagues in general debate that our country should ask for more commitment from itself before asking the other more Europe. No, we do not agree with this statement at all, also because, if it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that Italy has been driving for years the unenviable classification of countries that apply European law less or more late, it is also true that it is the country that adapts itself better to the duties, or it would be better to say to the diktats of Brussels. Be careful, however, because - and we have already said so - excessive rigour and austerity have sent the accounts of Italians to red and are causing a deep crisis of welfare and a next annihilation of public services. In the eyes of Europe, therefore, Italy appears negligent; on the contrary, in the eyes of the Italians, or at least in the eyes of the most conscientious, this country (or what remains of it) seems to have become, in recent years, a remissive servant and change in the face of the whole European Union: a real paradox to which the so-called Europeanists do not know, or rather do not want to, give any answer. The fact is that if the strict rigour that is distinguishing European politics will not be opposed with determination by the Italian Government, it will have as only and true result that of removing from Europe the real Italy, the one that works and bears the weight of the bureaucracy, digging a gap between the opinion of the Italian citizens of the North in particular, and the European political institutions, as has happened in recent years. The country system no longer manages to hold the weight of bureaucracy and also regulatory innovations, potentially positive, risk instead of being perceived, even if they are not really, as untenable, illegitimate and even unfair bonds. On the other hand, Minister, we cannot be silent, for example, as the Treaty of Lisbon, in conjunction with the harmful Target 2 system of 2007, has led the country to an industrial and commercial subdiction in favour of Germany, helping to inflate the deficit of our trade balance and putting in pain, in a chain, all the productive and commercial sectors. The excessive attitudes of Euro-Enthusiasm that have accompanied Croatia's accession to the European Union in recent days or, worse, the attitude of blind openness towards Turkey are in the face of this reality. The uncritical application of new European standards is likely to lead to an increasing anti-European feeling. Last example is the recent European legislation prohibiting the cultivation, reproduction and marketing of vegetable seeds that have not been approved by the nascent European Plant Variety Agency; a new ban that, paradoxically, also puts in the corner the recent commitment of this Parliament to counter the spread of GMO seeds. It is a new rule that fattens the Union's bureaucracy and detachs a new blank bill to the big multinationals, crushing the interests of our people and pursuing unacceptable and grey approval. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Woe, I say woe, if the essence of the European Union simply translates into a regulation defining the size of sheet A4. What will be the crude translation of the measures that this House is preparing to vote on today? Simple: new bureaucracy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] New requirements to make life difficult for people, for businesses, for those who work. Today Europe has been reduced to a monetary union dominated by the logic of the States and bureaucracy; a project that is proving to be bankrupt and which makes the achievement of the Europe of the Regions even more urgent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Clearly, we are not Eurosceptics, but it is a fact that this Europe, as it is, does not solve the problems of our people. It is equally clear that the road to the future of Europe will be increasingly uphill if the interests of the citizens do not prevail over those of the financial lobbyists. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Mr Minister, let us open our eyes and not allow ourselves to be imposed by the European bureaucracy on a harmful type-approval, against which it becomes necessary to oppose it; let us take this into account by the Government for future actions. Rebellion in the face of these situations is a right-duty of a government that wants to defend its citizens. The impression, on the other hand, is that, once again, in the political choices of the European Union, while the French defend the French interests and the Germans the German ones, the Italians make the Europeans all the more. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We therefore ask the Government for a serious and concrete commitment to assert in Europe the right reasons of the productive North and the entire country. Among the issues on the table at European level is certainly the fight against illegal immigration and the management of migratory flows. On this front, we call for a strong commitment to the Government in giving concrete follow-up to the resolution adopted by the Senate, because Italy cannot be left alone by Europe in the face of this problem. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On this occasion too, we repeat it: be careful, because the policy of uncontrolled immigration that is applied in Italy will end up causing problems to the rest of Europe, obtaining as a final result a predictable isolation of this country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The previous speakers said that we must be concerned about Italy's opinion and credibility with other European partners. We do not agree with this view. We, Minister, today tell you and the Government that you should be more concerned about the opinion that our citizens have about Europe ( [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , starting with the euro, a currency that had to make European political and economic unity and that instead seems increasingly to have done the interests of the bankers and the poverty of the Italians. The European economic and financial system is in fact favouring low-cost shopping by other countries to the detriment of the best Italian industries. Are we at the end of the season? We have already denounced acts of industrial piracy here. Either the government seriously renegotiates constraints in Europe such as the Stability Pact, or this is a country destined to be crushed, with an increasingly beached economy. ( [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today we are in favour of those which, in a nutshell, are being presented as acts of adaptation to European provisions, giving for the definition that the same are good and commendable already only for the fact that they are emanating from Europe. But that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, since these regulatory grafts are the result of a system of financial and political power far from the Europe of the peoples that we want. We live in a country that remains marginal even in the choices that decide its future. In Italy, today, the sense of the State and the institutions is evanescent. There is no longer a visible struggle to defend the social state and workers' rights. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There is no longer even a real action of social justice and respect for the dignity of the person. Even our efforts to renew the country in the federal sense and to respond to the northern question, are denied at the root, both from the right and from the left. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the mirror of a country that has failed in its own raison d'être, unable to stand up against the overpower of the banks and lobbyists of a Europe that aims to be a banking union before the union of peoples. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Like any measure, even those we are voting on today contain choices that are worth a positive vote and choices that are worth a negative vote. For all these reasons, Mr President, Minister, the North-Autonomous League Group will not vote in favour of these measures. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] In this vote, however, we intend to give a real parliamentary representation to all our fellow citizens, disappointed by a Europe that stifles us with bureaucracy, by a Europe that seeks to pursue the interests of finance and lobbying, by a Europe that is crushing the economy of Italy, starting with its most productive part, the North. To these fellow citizens, with this vote, let us make it clear that not all political parties are equal and not all have submitted to the Europe of lobbying and finance. ( [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Northern League, which bases its history in the defense of local autonomy and identities, will make a harsh opposition to the Europe of finance and banks. We have said what needs to be done; we have made it clear what needs to be done. It is now up to you, Government, to demonstrate in terms of European policy that you are up to the responsibilities you have taken. By closing, we say clearly to the Government: either it sets itself to defend Italy and the Italians, the North and the productive parts from the overwhelming interests of European finance, or it will be the Italians and the Padans in the lead to rebel and take the initiative. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u39	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank President Chiti, the rapporteurs and the Government for their work and for their vote in favour. Indeed, Law No 234 of 2012 opens a new season in the legislative procedures of European legislation, which is linked to the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, in particular, to the new powers of Parliament to intervene in the European decision-making process, as well as to the need for a more timely implementation of European obligations. In fact, the measure appears primarily aimed at remedying structural shortcomings and deficiencies in the participation of the country system in the process of training and implementation of European policies that had already manifested themselves well before the adoption of the new Treaty and were exacerbated by the progressive evolution of the European Constitution. By building on these processes that have already begun, the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty has helped to increase awareness of the importance and urgency of adapting national procedures, both in relation to the new prerogatives expressly conferred on national parliaments, and indirectly in relation to the new constitutional framework of the European Union that it has determined and the same innovations introduced in other legal systems in relation to the implementation of the Treaty itself. A non-secondary role in the preparation of the law was exercised, then, by institutional and political dynamics developed at European level following the sharpening of the economic and financial crisis. The construction - still under way - of a new system of economic governance, developed and implemented by means of purely intergovernmental instruments and procedures, has made it urgent, in Italy and in other Member States, to define appropriate parliamentary control instruments. In line with this reading, constitutional, legislative and regulatory provisions were adopted for a more general consolidation of the link between Parliament and the Government. This is therefore an opportunity to reflect on the new instruments offered by Law 234, which is one of the real great laws of reform of the last legislature in our country. Indeed, while the approval of the Lisbon Treaty is being emphasised, there is increasing awareness that the real challenge lies in ensuring that in practice individual states fully accept the partial transfer of sovereignty in favour of the European autonomy that the Treaty itself provides for, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. The main political objective of the Treaty was to fill a deficit of representation which had made the bureaucracy of the European Union increasingly distant and even perceived as hostile to the citizens. The greatest danger to the process of European integration was and is identifiable precisely in the distrust towards the institutions of Brussels, fueled in recent years by populist and xenophobic groups, proponents of the supremacy of the Nations over every supranational body and even in the reassuring imprisonment of the aspirations of the local communities in the so-called small country. There is no point in opposing the Europe of the peoples, the Europe of the regions and the Europe of the nations! Today this dangerous process of disintegration risks being fueled by the wave of the tsunami that has invested the economy and the financial markets. The fallback on strictly national logics, which weighed when it was necessary to make important and rapid decisions in favour of countries in difficulty (see Greece), is a behavior that has often not paid. It is illusory to think that any Member State of the European Union, from the larger Member States, can assert its national interests outside a joint European effort. The international reality has changed so much that one cannot see how any individual country can regain its autonomous and distinct role in reacting with its strength to the challenges of globalisation; this applies to the fight against pollution, organised crime, terrorism, a new world monetary governance also relating to the opening up of new markets, to international cooperation for development. It is in this context that we must include a new Italian protagonism in Europe, which requires first of all self-confidence, avoiding the usual whining litanies that we find in those who prefer to continue seeing straws in the eyes of others but not beams in their eyes. For too many people there has been a waste of time debating the issues of institutional set-ups rather than focusing on the decisions to be taken to deal with the economic crisis; this is because, to the greatest extent, the shortcomings of the European institutions have always severely limited Europe's ability to act unitedly and to make its weight felt on the world scene. The economic crisis has helped us in this direction. Today, awareness has grown in Europe, thanks also to the action of the Monti Government before and of the Executive Read then, that a policy focused exclusively on budgetary authority and austerity is insufficient but necessary and must be accompanied by growth practices that require the ability to seize the opportunities that globalisation offers us. The Italian Government today has the important task of continuing a change of course, initiated by the Monti Government in these choices, and of indicating a path of recovery that is shared and understood by the citizens. We must have the ambition to look to recovery, focusing on instruments that can guarantee growth without broadening the debt. I therefore believe that we must include our European policy within this horizon. This law helps us to promote the descending and ascending legislative process, helps us to overcome the constant criticism of our country and the opening of infringement processes. We need to feel part of a wider legislative production, of a greater European legislative power, we need to feel like national legislators within this process. Law 234 has pushed us in this direction and we want to be consistent with this great achievement that we get today with the adoption of the measure that we are going to vote on. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u42	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached the final stage of the process - to be honest, rather crooked - which has led to the adoption of the main acts relating to our country's participation in the formation and implementation of European legislation, as laid down in Law No 234 of 24 December 2012. In particular, allow me a brief digression on the law itself. As you know, this is the novelty that we have all had to face in this parliamentary term. Article 30 of this law defines both the law of European delegation, in this case the bill n. 587, and the European law (design of law n. 588). Both of these laws are of government initiative. The law of European delegation, in practice, asks Parliament to confer on the Government the delegation to adopt within defined times of the legislative decrees transposing European directives. In essence, with this law, the Government asks Parliament to delegate the power to legislate in its place, albeit for the noble and necessary purpose of transposing the European directives. I repeat: the Government calls on Parliament to delegate the delegation to legislate in its place. This mode, however, squeals strongly with the all too often celebrated centrality of Parliament. It is therefore another example of the emptying of Parliament's role, which is becoming ever simpler to ratify decisions taken by the Government. This also shows that the leaders of the single model do not even trust their own parliamentarians, who are only asked to confirm, ratify and validate decisions taken by the Commission, or perhaps only by the leaders of the parties of the single model. We don't like all this from the 5 Star Movement. We would prefer a more active role for Parliament on these occasions too, which seem to be merely, passive transposition of European Union directives for which Parliament can and must say its own by imposing, according to the limits laid down in Law No 234 of 2012, criteria and constraints corresponding to the true wishes of Italian citizens. Alternatively, Parliament should act autonomously to transpose the appropriate EU directives, but above all it should perhaps influence more, together with the other national parliaments, the legislative work of the European Union, thereby raising the level of democracy of the European institutions. But maybe that doesn't interest much. From this point of view, we do not want to be like the other political forces, which we think are all too often supinatingly Euro-Acritical, which are resting, basking and delighting in a repeated and almost agiografic reference to Europe and the futuristic ones, we do not know when, the United States of Europe. Now, on the substance, with regard to draft law No 588, our orientation - beware of the conditional - would certainly be favourable, since this is the act containing all those rules other than the delegations necessary for the fulfilment of European obligations and aimed at remedying cases of incorrect transposition of European legislation itself. As the rapporteur has explained, these are important directives, which are useful, for example, to ensure the free movement of citizens within the Union, or to ensure free access to the profession in any of its Member States. In Chapter I of the European law, which continues with the articles of Chapter II on taxation, Chapter III on employment, Chapter IV on public health, Chapter V on the environment, Chapter VI, which contains other provisions, the titles of which clearly give an idea of the relevance of these directives. Also with regard to draft law No 587, our vote - once again attention to the verbal way - would be positive overall, with the significant and significant exception of Article 12, which transposes Directive 2010/63/EU always referring to animal testing. Even if some of the criteria in this article are appreciated, we of the Movement consider it insufficient, in that it imposes transposition criteria that many of us seem not suitable to limit the suffering of the animals under trial and certainly not able to guarantee the necessary controls and the necessary inspections in the structures where this practice, unfortunately, will take place; moreover, they do not represent a real impulse to the research and the application of alternative methods to the use of animals in the phases of study and analysis of a new drug. We therefore regret the absolute insensitivity and unwillingness of the other political forces and, above all, of the Ministry of Health highlighted by the failure to accept our amendments to Article 12 (initially Article 9), aimed at improving at an upward stage in the Commission responsible (the 14a), this rule. Therefore, these amendments, in conjunction with Article 12, would have completed a legislative framework which we would have considered to be real, concrete and effective protection for animal species. However, we know that we must vote on yet another omnibus law - a kind of measure that the Letta Government had undertaken to make a memory of the past - and we are also aware that all this produces hesitations in many of us considering the very different themes: in the bill no. 587 we go from importing timber to refugee rights, from animal testing for scientific research to international missions, from the budgets of States to the trade in technological products, to moving to financial standards. Obviously, all matters which may fall within the same measure, by homogeneity. Very well, all this allows the Movement, in an absolutely clear and politically strong way, to leave to all the Senators of the Group freedom of vote; not because we do not want to take our responsibilities, because we take responsibility for them, but because you, the Government's lords, and however gentlemen of the unique model, have the courage to impose a logic for which you either take everything or you must not take anything. We would like there to be - and this seems to us to be democracy - the possibility of calmly reasoning on individual issues, on individual measures, on which the 5 Star Movement will certainly contribute. It is not true, in fact, that we are only those of the protest; we are also those of the proposal and in the Commission we have tried to make it clear to you in many ways. But of course the times that you imperiously dictate to the parliamentary debate (otherwise you do not have time to approve) are the ones who want to pass along with the intelligent measure also what you could intervene to correct. The 5 Star Movement on this doesn't fit. For this reason, all of us, with a sense of responsibility, accept the logic of freedom of vote and call for the umpteenth time and through a Minister - who is present here - the commitment that the President of the Letta Council himself had made: let us try to put an end to the omnibus measures. We allow all the senators, all the parliamentarians - because in other groups too there are individual parliamentarians who have the same difficulties as us - to vote on individual measures which have their own consistency, their own systematicity and their basic unity. This is what the 5 Star Movement asks of you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u45	D'ANNA (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the Group of the People of Freedom and I am going to briefly explain the reasons why we should vote in favour of it, not before we thank the President, all the members of the 14th Commission of the Senate and, in particular, the rapporteurs who, with a hard and durish work, had to draft and codify the amendments to the two laws, which paradise before us this evening for approval because of the early interruption of the 16th legislature and which, therefore, are to fill the void caused by the failure to approve the Community laws 2011 and 2012. These measures of the Government I believe go in the direction of transposing Community directives through legislative delegation; it could only be so, expected that it is a matter of adapting, correcting and supplementing national legislation and to remedy any failure on the part of Italy to adopt European provisions, especially in order to avoid the opening of new infringement procedures against our nation. It is hardly the case to remember that any further delay in deepening the issues related to these draft laws would expose the Government to serious difficulties regarding the enactment and adoption of delegated decrees in the matter of particular importance. The European delegation's law concerns first and foremost the transposition of specific directives on environmental pollution. Other significant aspects, in my opinion, concern accounting and public finance and are the subject of improvements to the legislative stage, with particular reference to a new VAT discipline, as well as the reaffirmation - ahinoi - of the principle of budgetary balance. Moreover, without picking up the profound changes proposed for the management of alternative funds, in order to avoid the risks that have accompanied the most acute phases of the financial crisis (which has been prodromic to the much more serious economic recession that has invested also our Country), it is worth remembering other important innovations present in this bill, in the field of trade, health, civil rights for foreigners. A further step forward is the transposition into European law of the legislation which protects the unanticipated application of Community law, complained by citizens and businesses, often forced to appeal against the non-respect of their good law. For reasons of time, it is only necessary to reaffirm the incisiveness of the initiatives to be taken in the field of environmental policy, as well as the implementation of Directive No 75 of 2010 of the European Union, referred to in the draft Act of the Senate 587, and in so far as they relate to the management of industrial waste, but also to authorisations, controls and sanctions in the field of waste in general. This is in order to avoid, through effective control of authorizations, the re-proposing of situations of devastating environmental damage, which take on particular connotations in the Mezzogiorno; and the images of Naples invaded by waste and of a Campania and Sicily often collapsed due to phenomena that are certain upstream and the failure to implement an advanced policy of treatment of waste themselves, but also because often our legislation has been incomplete in terms of incisiveness and force coerced against the demagogues that, at various levels, we have found both in the provincial administrations, and in the regional administrations themselves. In this draft law, in the financial field, the urgent implementation of the existing legal arrangements is stressed, linking them to an inevitable adaptation of VAT to European legislation. The transposition of the European Union Directive No 85 of 2011 on requirements for national budgetary frameworks under the Stability Pact is also unavoidable. There is also the adoption of European health directives; there is a need to direct the reform of the pharmacovigilance rules laid down in Directive No 26 of 2012. In the area of public health, the rights granted to border patients in the Member States of the European Union should also be highlighted, taking into account the forthcoming adoption of Directive No 24 of 9 March 2011, as well as the intensification of the monitoring of animal testing practices. As regards the revision of the directive on the processing and sale of tobacco products, it is worth noting what has been said in previous documents drawn up by the European Parliament in the 16th Law. Health and Health Commission, for example, the opinion on the fight against smoking and the health risks that may arise from the careless and harmful use of electronic cigarettes, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality enshrined in both the Maastricht and Lisbon Treaties. I therefore declare our vote in favour of ensuring that the technical regularity of the financial charges resulting from the adoption of the measures in question is observed and that the principle of subsidiarity is respected. The precise affirmation of this principle in European law is essential for a proper relationship between the State and society, which - you will allow me to remind you - must be increasingly extended in those open and evolved societies, where the right and duty to organize social and civil forms of coexistence lies with associations, trade unions and private citizens, so that, in essence, negative freedoms, as Isaiah Berlin called them, are guaranteed and extended through the application of this principle. These freedoms are the salient aspect of the freedom of the citizen himself as they belong to the sphere of rights that are not in the availability of any political, judicial or institutional power. As far as the People of Freedom are concerned, therefore, we are convinced that we must give our assent and vote in favour of this law. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u48	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, Senators and Senators, Minister, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of this package of rules and documents for the harmonisation of national legislation with the European one, as well as for the evaluation and direction of European Union policies, with the awareness that at this time the issues that bind us to Europe, as has been mentioned recently also by the President of the Republic and our President of the Council, must represent for Italy the priority and the horizon of action of both the Government and Parliament. The fruitful work done by the Commission and the House goes in the direction of overcoming the logic of European issues that are understood as separate and unrelated to our legal system, while aiming to incorporate fully into national policy and the legislative process that informs it of the relationship between the State and the European Union as a constituent. The European Union is, in effect, a further legislative seat, closely linked to the Italian internal system, which we share as consenting parties in the drafting of the rules. This is precisely the issue of awareness and active participation: it is for Parliament as well as for Italian citizens. In a political and economic phase of great difficulty, national sentiment and political discourse risk to become sclerotic in a false dialectic between pros and anti-Europeans. We are beyond that: we no longer have to choose Europe, we have done it many decades ago; it is a constitutive, politically and economically indispensable choice, especially in the crisis. It is only up to us to get out of the logic of resistance, passive and bureaucratic adaptation to European legislation and move to active and political participation in the construction of legislation. We must move from the logic of negotiation, typically intergovernmental, to that of the construction of the European democratic process. Parliament can and must provide - I say this to Senator Morra - its contribution in a decisive way, using the means that are ultimately made available by the regulatory innovation contained in Law No 234 of 2012. Thanks also to this law and Parliament's work, after two years of legislative blocking, the priority objective of our work in the Commission and in this House was, in fact, to proceed as quickly as possible to examine the measures to contribute significantly to reducing the number of infringements, which constitute an economic burden that cannot be borne at the present stage and a political weight because they undermine the same credibility of Italy in European fora. We have tried to do so in a non-bureaucratic way, but we have considered and contemporaneous the Community body together with the national bodies which have been presented to our attention. I am referring both to the older ones which have been driven by the lack of approval for a two-year period of Community law and those which have recently emerged on extremely important issues, such as the European VAT Regulation, environmental protection issues, the thorny question of the recovery of aid given by our country to businesses and citizens affected by natural disasters. All of these, with our work in the Commission, we have tried to give adequate answers and in a short time. 18.15 p.m. (Following GHEDINI Rita). Between the two laws, European law suffers more from the delay and is, consequently, richer in rules. In the action to contain and prevent infringements, we have tried to keep the horizon of rights, the reason for the European Constitution, and to keep the general interest of citizens at the forefront of the acceptance of prohibitions. In this respect, the provisions concerning the free movement of persons, as well as those relating to the environment, with specific changes to the Italian legislation on water protection, integrated environmental assessment, waste management and compensation against environmental damage should be included. Where opposing interests are at stake, we have sought reasonable mediation and - where possible - upward mediation. This is the case, for example, of tourist guides, where the right principle of the free movement of workers within the States of the Union has been tempered by the forecast, for our country, to request a special authorisation for sites of particular historical and artistic interest, which are one of the constituent elements for the economic revival of our country. The repeal of Article 34 on the use of unprotected industrial design patents, and the deletion of Article 33 on tax and contributory benefits recognised for earthquakes that hit our country from 1997 to 2009, give consideration to the need not to pass on to citizens and businesses the contradictions of decisions taken in political and economic phases even very far in time and to find, with the deepening and the necessary time, solutions able to guarantee equity and sustainability. Also in the bill of European delegation 2013 there are good news. Among these, I would like to remind you that, in the complex affair concerning VAT regulations, we have proposed, with the approval of an amendment, that consideration be given to the peculiarity, all of Italy, of the development of social and health benefits in subsidiarity by subjects of social cooperation, able to support a welfare, otherwise already severely reduced and penalized by the need to contain public expenditure. Good work has also been done in establishing appropriate delegation criteria for the implementation of the European Directive on the recognition of the rights of beneficiaries of international protection. This testified to the country's willingness to adopt legislation that, in accordance with the spirit of the Geneva Convention, can assist and protect refugees present on our territory, with particular regard to unaccompanied foreign minors and victims of trafficking. Finally, it seems important to me to point out the good, upside-down compromise achieved in the Commission on the very delicate issue of animal testing, which, in guaranteeing what is laid down in Europe (i.e. in full compliance with the European directive), is without prejudice to the demands established in the country which aim to improve the protection and protection of animals used for research purposes. We have done this work while our Government was sitting at the European Council table on 27 and 28 June: the results achieved give us hope that, in the next 2014-2020 Financial Framework, growth and employment policies, the foreign and neighbourhood policy aspects and the guidelines set out in the resolutions we are proposing today for the vote of this House will be fully taken as a development perspective. In fact, it is essential that the Government, fully supported by Parliament, continue its efforts to promote policies aimed at supporting, fiscal rigour, measures that stimulate growth and employment. These include the issue of European bonds to be used to finance investments of European interest. In this sense, we welcome President Barroso's openness to temporary deviations from the budgetary objectives set out in the Stability Pact in the event of public investment linked to measures to promote growth, for countries such as Italy, which have the accounts in order because they have done the tasks. The change of perspective that we have hoped for and for which we have fought seems finally to look out: allowing productive public investments, co-financed by the European Union, capable of restarting the country system, coming out of the harsher phase of the economic crisis of these years is fundamental in order to achieve the objective of relaunching the country and also of achieving the balance of the medium-term budget. The Italians, who have reckoned with the rigour of the budget, can claim that they invest on their seriousness and on the ability of the country system to get back in motion. They can expect the reasons for being in Europe to become concrete is once again an opportunity and, first of all, an opportunity that needs to be exploited. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u50	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u51	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I would like to say briefly that I shall vote on the first draft law for our attention, while I will not be voting on draft law No 588. With Minister Moavero Milanesi, whom I thank for his kindness, we had an interview on the deletion of article 33 of this bill, which concerns the earthquake victims of Molise, Puglia, Umbria, Marche and Abruzzo, with whom I am totally supportive. I repeat, however, for the umpteenth time, that I would like the earthquake victims of Emilia-Romagna to be treated at least as those of these regions. The debate on Article 33 concerned whether, in those regions, the benefit of the extension for the payment of taxes and taxes and the refund of only 40% of the tax and contribution burden should be extended to all, instead of the total, or whether, as Europe demands, this should be extended only to those who have suffered damage. I realize that this is a matter to be deepened, but I would like to point out that in Emilia-Romagna, in Lombardy and in Veneto, from January 1, 2014 will have to be returned all the backward, without any benefit. My failure to participate in the vote therefore represents yet another invitation to the Government to deepen the topic, perhaps on the occasion of the decree-law to the attention of the Senate, so that the earthquake victims of Emilia-Romagna are treated in the same way as those of the other areas of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u52	Before we proceed to the final votes, I warn you that, with regard to the draft legislation before us, two separate proposals for coordination have been tabled which are intended to be presented. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote by show of hands the proposal of coordination C1, referring to the bill n. 587. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u53	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to say that by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the draft law No 587, in the amended text, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorized to make any further changes to the formal coordination which may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u54	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote by show of hands the proposal of coordination C1, referring to the bill n. 588. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the final vote on draft law No 588. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that, by means of electronic ballot, a roll-call vote on draft law No 588, in the amended text, the Presidency will be entitled to make any further changes to the formal coordination which may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3, which was previously accepted by the Government. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Zanda and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, The adoption of motion for a resolution No 3 means that the debate on the reports on the agenda is over.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on the bill No 816 already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Casini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Convention in title has been very troubled and has also created many reasons for friction between the State of San Marino and the Italian Republic. At last they are out of date, and with the measure we are considering today we ratify a Convention between our Republic and that of San Marino in order to avoid double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax fraud. I said that it is a matter of normalizing relations between our countries after so many setbacks and so many obstacles that have occurred in recent years. The House recently approved the bill of approval for the ratification of the Convention by 525 votes in favour of 525 and then by unanimous vote. It follows the model identified in the OECD: there is, therefore, a strong rooting in the best practices that exist at the international level. The new wording of the text aims to enhance cooperation in the field of taxation by providing that the State subject to a request uses the powers at its disposal even if the information in question is not relevant for its internal tax purposes. The requested State cannot therefore refuse to provide information on the sole grounds that it is held by a bank, a financial institution or similar entities. So, ladies and gentlemen, this means, as is clear to all, a strong reduction in the scope of banking secrecy. However, a clause excludes certain mutual benefits if the exchange of information is not properly applied. You understand that for San Marino this means the return in full title to the white list of international organizations; this new legitimacy will produce benefits in San Marino, but also to the productive fabric in particular of the Marche and Emilia-Romagna, facilitating investments for infrastructures and enterprises operating in that territory. On the subject of collaboration and transparency there are the greatest benefits for Italy as a whole; to put it bluntly: what we are debating today is an agreement to avoid double taxation, but it also contains essential tools to prevent tax taxation instead of two not even one. The issue is therefore social justice, a fundamental issue in the relationship between the State and citizens. Tax evasion is an intolerable phenomenon that must be struck with agreements like this, especially in times of economic crisis and many sacrifices for families. Europe also saw this at the European Summit at the end of May, and the Union undertook to amend the directive on administrative cooperation between different states to include all forms of income in the automatic exchange of information, and also undertook to support this principle in all international and bilateral fora. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Convention also allows the long-standing question of cross-border workers to be resolved. More than 6,000 Italians work in San Marino, representing 30% of the total force; these workers are subjected to an intolerable tax situation, also due to the tax introduced in 2011 by the Republic of Titan. The Convention states that the two Contracting States agree to apply the system of shared taxation, with definitive taxation in the State of residence. The Union will have to define how these incomes are to be taxed. I hope that this law will be adopted quickly, not least because the Government has already made a formal commitment to this. That's all I'm gonna say. I'll wait for the debate if there is. Among other things, I am comforted by the accession, which has come to me via epistolare, of the highly authoritative colleague Zavoli, who has the heart divided between San Marino and Romagna (at least so I think). I therefore leave the debate to all of you, fellow senators. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u57	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Orellana is enlisted to speak, and during his speech he will also present the agenda for the G100 (correct text). You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u58	Mr President, the Convention between the Italian Republic and the Republic of San Marino to avoid double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax fraud and the corresponding Amending Protocol is first and foremost a necessary step towards an adaptation to international standards under the current OECD model. The Republic of San Marino therefore benefits greatly. The ratification of the Protocol also involves the automatic operation of the agreements signed in 2002, on economic cooperation, and in 2009, on cooperation in financial matters, which have never entered into force being tied to the last piece concerning double taxation. In any case, the most important political issues defined by the agreement are the exchange of information and the introduction of the crime of tax evasion by San Marino. In particular, offences of fraudulent declaration and omission of declaration will be introduced with the tax reform being discussed in the Republic of Titan, in the Grand Council and General Council. The cornerstone of the new regulatory framework is the impossibility to affix banking secrecy to the request for information exchange. In summary, this treaty, which costs Italy more than 3 million euros a year, is signed for the benefit of San Marino. Italy is guaranteed an exchange of useful information to try to avoid and suppress tax avoidance and evasion, which has always been a scourge in relations between the two States. To be emphasized, it is the fact that, from what we can see, the Protocol is aimed at eliminating the tax evasion and avoidance of small evaders. The Protocol provides nothing, in fact, in the case of company triangulations put in place with the help of a third State in which banking secrecy exists. Given this situation, as Cinque Stelle Movement we have proposed an agenda with the objective of committing the Government to take appropriate initiatives to monitor: the traffic of capital between the Italian Republic and the Republic of San Marino; which and how many companies constituted in the Republic of San Marino that receive profits or dividends or royalties or interest of Italian origin; which and how many will be the new companies that will be constituted in the Republic of San Marino within 36 months and that will receive profits or dividends or royalties or interests of Italian origin; which and how many will be the companies constituted in the Republic of San Marino that will receive profits or dividends or royalties or interests of Italian origin, that in turn are participated or controlled by companies of another State (as has been said before); any amalgamations and mergers of shares in order to avoid taxation in the country of origin established by the Treaty. Finally - a very important point - the Government is asked to report annually to Parliament on the results of this monitoring work. We are voting in favour of ratification of the Treaty in the event of the adoption of our agenda, with the aim - as I repeat - of monitoring the situation of the exchange of information, and especially of business, between Italy and the Republic of San Marino. On the contrary, if you do not accept it, we will abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u59	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, representative of the Government, the draft law before the House on the ratification and enforcement of the Convention between the Italian Republic and the Republic of San Marino to avoid double taxation of income taxes and to prevent tax fraud has just been presented. Since there is so much talk about taxation of income taxes between Italy and a neighbouring country, I would like to highlight a critical issue concerning a specific category of workers and workers crossing Italian borders every day to go to work abroad. It is the frontier workers, and perhaps not everyone knows that today is the last day they have available to pay the impossibile IRPEF. Gentlemen, let's understand, they are the first who want to pay the taxes, but in essence the fiscal tightening produced by the new provision introduced by the law of stability 2013 (Law No 228 of 2012), in particular with article 1, paragraph 549, obliges these workers to anticipate the taxes due through the payment of the advances on the entire amount of their taxable income both for the current year, therefore for 2013, and for 2014, without taking into account the tax relief of 6,700 euros, extended with the same law of stability 2013. Mr. Representative of the Government, it is clear that this type of taxation is unfair, discriminatory and strongly penalising for a category of workers and workers who have always been considered a resource for our country, as "importers" of knowledge able to produce income subject to taxation in Italy, also in view of the difficult period of economic crisis that our country is going through. Mr President, representative of the Government, we are talking about over 60,000 workers crossing the borders with Switzerland, 1,500 with France, 3,700 with the Principality of Monaco, 5,400 with San Marino, 1,894 with Vatican City, 1,000 with Austria and finally 1,500 with Slovenia. As you can understand, there are many families involved. Mr President, this is a problem that arises at every payment deadline of the IRPEF, and every year a possible solution is postponed to the following year, thus keeping tens of Italian families anxious. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, since I have been told that there have been no so-called technical times to answer a specific question that I have put, and co-signed by Senator Micheloni, on this subject, it seems to me that I must repair this tax confusion, and I hope that in November, when the balance is reached, this category of workers will be on credit and will not have to pay anything more with regard to the second instalment of payment. Trusting in the good work of this Government and this Parliament, this would be the time to establish a statute to settle this dispute with frontier workers once and for all. Thank you for listening to me. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u61	The general debate is closed. Since neither the rapporteur nor the representative of the Government intends to intervene in reply, we shall proceed to the examination of the agenda of the G100 (correct text), presented by Senator Orellana and other senators, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u62	Mr President, the government could accept the agenda if it were reworded as follows: after the words "the government" are committed, the following words should be inserted: "to consider whether to take initiatives to monitor, reporting annually to Parliament: "" The rest of the agenda shall remain unchanged unless, in the last part, the redundant period of reporting annually to Parliament the results of this monitoring work is removed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u63	Senator Orellana, do you accept the proposal for reformulation made by the Undersecretary? Orellana (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u66	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to make a brief speech because in the first vote Senator De Siano voted for Senator Longo, who is not present. I would kindly ask colleagues to vote regularly. [[Applause from Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u67	We're gonna do a thorough check-up. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 1. I declare the vote open. Everyone for himself and God for everyone! [[Applause]] . (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law n. 816 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law n. 816 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law n. 816 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 816
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u70	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, the contents of this measure have been well explained by the rapporteur, Mr Casini, and in the speeches of my colleagues, particularly the Foreign Commission. I do not think anyone should miss the need to approve this measure quickly, and I also understand that I must do the same: so I merely confirm what was said in the Commission about the goodness of the content of this measure and declare the North League's vote in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u71	Thank you, Senator Stucchi, also for the synthesis. Colleagues, I saw a flash earlier. I repeat again: it is forbidden to photograph. I'll have the devices seized from now on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u74	MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Mr President, the Civic Choice Group for Italy voted in favour of this ratification, which comes to our examination after a tough, harsh but constructive confrontation with the Republic of San Marino. Several obstacles have been overcome in this comparison, but there has been action within a framework which, as has been said, is the one that has been identified in the OECD framework. We are therefore making a real contribution to the application of best practices and, above all, to greater transparency in the tax field. The scope of banking secrecy is reduced and San Marino can - as the rapporteur reminded us here - fully re-enter the international white list. But Italy also receives an advantage: this advantage is to avoid double taxation, with the consequent benefit of the companies of the Marche and Emilia-Romagna. For these reasons, we will vote in favour, hoping that this will be the beginning of an even more productive relationship between the Republic of San Marino and Italy. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u77	Razzi (PdL). Mr President, the Convention on double taxation with the Republic of San Marino also addresses the issue of double taxation. Paying taxes, we know it well now, it is right and necessary, even if it is often painful; paying them twice and unjustifiedly becomes unbearable. This type of bilateral agreements predispose banks and supervision especially to fraud; with regard to the ratification and enforcement of the Convention between the Italian Republic and the Republic of San Marino in order to avoid double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax fraud, with Additional Protocol, made in Rome on 21 March 2002, and the related Amending Protocol, made in Rome on 13 June 2012, of which Senator Casini is rapporteur on the draft law, we are also in favour as it establishes the point of arrival of a normalization of relations between the two countries long sought, and a fundamental point of arrival for transparency and effective collaboration between the two countries. In fact, it regulates, among other things, the important tax treatment of labour income of about 6,000 Italian frontier workers in San Marino and it is also ripe time for the Republic of San Marino to be removed from the black list of the Ministry of Economy. The People of Freedom Group will vote for this ratification. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u80	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, I rise to speak in favour of this Convention by the Group of the Democratic Party. The reasons are found in Mr Casini's report but, in my opinion, they need to be better represented from a cultural and social point of view. The issues that dealt with the content, today resolved within the Convention, were the main causes that have made complicated, sometimes hidden and at least difficult, the financial exchanges, goods and benefits between the two countries, in spite of the deep cultural, historical, but also economic and social affinities, between the citizens in these residents. The issues which concern, on the one hand, the risk of duplication of taxation on income produced and received by non-residents and, on the other hand, the danger of tax fraud find in the text today in question strong solutions, which penetrate deeply into the systems of the two countries and which have taken into account the qualitative and quantitative dimension of the relations between them. The trade between Italy and San Marino today amounts to 4.5 billion euros and every day - as you have heard - more than 5,000 workers, resident in Italy, lend their work within the borders of San Marino, representing 40% of the workforce of the private sector. Trade has certainly intensified also as a result of the very clear choice by the Republic of San Marino to focus on the development of the real economy, which has attracted from Italy labour force, with a progressive contraction of the activity of the credit sector. Hence the launch of a series of reforms aimed at getting the country out of the black list of international organizations. Over the last few years, the Republic of San Marino has in fact made a formal commitment to comply with OECD principles on competition and banking transparency, eliminating the legal spaces and corporate forms that have been the cause of the distorting effects of relations and which in fact represented the most important barrier to the development of companies. To this end, the agreement, which provides for the elimination of anonymous companies, the fight against tax offences and a considerable openness in the field of letters of letters, in fact extends cooperation in the field of taxation, considerably reducing the areas of banking secrecy. It establishes the automatic exchange of information on all forms of income and becomes that effective tool against tax avoidance and evasion that our country is trying to build and on which the European Union is also working to extend it to international fora and bilateral relations. It also poses the full risk of potential iniquities of double taxation of income and, in particular, of those perceived by the many cross-border workers. It is established that the income will be definitively taxed in the country of residence of the recipient. The new bilateral rules between Italy and San Marino in the field of taxation therefore open a new way for the collaboration and cooperation of the two Countries, founded in fact on a stronger integration between the citizens and a clear strengthening of the economic dynamics, which assign to Italy an extremely important role, since it is the only neighbouring country and the most important economic partner. Today's vote, after the favourable one expressed unanimously in the Chamber, completes a long and complex path, begun in 2002 with the Convention between Italy and San Marino, with the Additional Protocol of 21 March, in fact never ratified, amended on 13 June 2012. This path has matured thanks to the consolidation of friendship and cooperation between the institutions of the two countries, which daily feeds and strengthens through the behaviors and exchanges of its citizens. I believe that the best glue for renewed friendship is the sharing of those principles of legality and transparency that the Democratic Party places at the basis of the economic and social recovery of our country, for the construction of a modern, reformed and renewed country, and this increases the motivations of the favorable vote of my Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u83	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Mr President, just now Senator De Siano came here and committed the crime of insult. He insulted me in front of everyone, saying: You're an asshole. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]] Please, I ask the Presidency to do everything possible to prevent any crime of any kind, at least in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u84	Senator Mastrangeli, these are personal facts and personal interventions are done at the end of the session. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] I will therefore give you the floor at the end of the sitting. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u85	The next item is the debate on draft law 817 already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Razzi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, calling into question, not voting on it, the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on diplomatic representations would be incomprehensible. It is a matter of ratifying the signature signed by the two countries in Vilnius on 21 February 2013, which we invite to vote unanimously. We are in front of a relatively young nation, without the nightmare of the Soviet Union which, despite everything, has left no sign of the suffering that has passed in society and in the territories. A country, Lithuania, in progressive growth, full of enthusiasm and initiatives, in some ways much more civilized and in line with the contemporary bets of our country. In fact, never before do the two countries need stable diplomatic relations, since Lithuania sees itself as the destination of young Italians who go there in search of their future. Not to mention that the vote against this ratification would clash with the Europeanist and Union logics that are constantly being referred to for the future of the United States of Europe. My personal wish is that we should commit ourselves to referring to a society such as Lithuania, which has a service system far more advanced than that of Italy. The transport is carried out by new and efficient means and the railway lines are in step with the times. It is a "green" nation, which has been used for years to separate waste collection and is attentive to the preservation of the great Renaissance palaces and artistic and cultural heritage. It is a nation from which Italy can draw that serenity of the project lost convulsively in the vortices of the most blazing and equally chaotic nations. To ensure, as the preamble to the Agreement states, that the activities of their diplomatic representations are conducted with the utmost dignity and decency, as provided for in the Vienna Convention of 18 April 1961 on diplomatic relations, is a necessity which cannot be ignored and a hostile vote would be unjustified and harmful. For these reasons, I would ask you to vote in favour of the agreement and also to attach the technical details to the report of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u87	Senator Razzi, the Presidency authorizes you to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u90	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, this ratification of the International Agreement takes place, as my colleague Mr Razzi said earlier, between our country and the Republic of Lithuania, which has actually suffered over the years, as well as the other Baltic Republics and a large part of our world, for the deprivation of freedoms, but which today enjoys the full benefits of democracy. I believe that the example given by Lithuania, like other republics that have left the Soviet yoke in recent years, that of being able to modernise and encourage a series of interventions and reforms that have allowed it to be even ahead of the great Western democracies, must also be followed by countries that historically live democracy within their institutions, but which perhaps suffer a little 'for lack of modernity. It is with this kind of considerations that I announce the North League's vote in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u93	MUSSINI (M5S). Mr President, the agreement which we are about to ratify is the result of cooperation which we hope will be ever closer with the Republic of Lithuania. Specifically, it is the assignment of a property. In particular, in this Agreement, we like the concept of integrity and good preservation contained in Article 3; we like the idea of recognition of the historical and artistic character and the commitment, in the redevelopment of this building, to respect the legislation on the conservation of cultural heritage. In the explanation of vote, which for the 5 Star Movement is in favour, allow me for a moment to turn the issue upside down, without it looking like an off topic. The topic of the public real estate of our country has been on the agenda several times: we know well the importance for the state's coffers of the disposal of unused public assets; we also know that, at a time of strong economic crisis, which obliges governments to ask for greater sacrifices to citizens, the fight against waste and the reduction of the costs of public administration is certainly a priority. We are in front of a country, Lithuania, which decides to invest in a historical asset, a asset that represents a piece of history. It is perhaps the case that we take an example from Lithuania in choosing to value this heritage (which we also have abroad) owned by the Italian State, verifying its real use, distinguishing which real estate is really necessary for the representation activity and which are only a cost and therefore should be abandoned. As a 5 Star Movement, we do not think it makes sense to abandon real estate where, then, this implies the need to provide at the same time the rent of another property in order to guarantee the functions of worthy representation of our culture, our history, our made in Italy. We feel it is equally important that we do not acquire real estate where under-utilised buildings are present, and that it would be appropriate - as Lithuania is doing - to recover and retrain. In view of the recovery and enhancement of this heritage, therefore, we are voting in favour of the Agreement, which allows us to recover an unused property, without charges for the Italian State, and, at the same time, to comply with the International Agreements. For this reason, we declare our vote in favour and we hope that the Italian Government and the Italian State can move in such a direction. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u94	A little off the subject, senator, but this time we forgive you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u97	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we will vote in favour. Personally, however, I would like to make a small thought, which does not mean calling into question what we are going to vote on, because we will vote in favour and, we too, will give our assent. Article 1 states that "The Government of the Italian Republic grants the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, which accepts the entire fourth floor of about 700 (seven hundred) square metres of the Palazzo Blumenstihl, located in Rome, in a convenient manner, so that it can be adapted to the needs of the diplomatic representations of the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, as provided for in the Vienna Convention of 18 April 1961 on Diplomatic Relations." From what I understand, from what is written within this International Agreement, this means that we would grant this facility free of charge. In Article 4, I read: In particular and as provided for in the Vienna Convention of 18 April 1961 on diplomatic relations, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania will facilitate the Government of the Italian Republic, if necessary, in the identification and acquisition of suitable spaces to host the Italian diplomatic missions in Vilnius. My question is as follows. I think I understand correctly, and mine is just a high-pitched reflection: do we give zero-cost representation within our country, but does Lithuania give Italy diplomatic representation within Lithuania at no cost? This, I repeat, is a reflection aloud. I think I understand well that this means that the Italian representation in Lithuania should be at zero cost, just as the representation of Lithuania in Italy should be at zero cost. If that were to be the case, I apologise for my aloud reflection; if it were not to be so, it would be good to pay attention before we even go to vote. Since the Group of the PdL has already decided to vote in favour and positive, mine wanted to be only a reflection in the interest of the country and in the interest of our Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u98	Senator Scilipoti, you reassure me because at first I feared that you would express a dissent from yourself. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] You spoke of Article 1. We, however, must vote on Article 1 of the draft law authorising ratification of the Agreement: what you mentioned is Article 1 of the Agreement, which has already been signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u101	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I only speak to declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour, with two brief comments. The first is that, even if it has not been entirely relevant on the agenda, I agree with Senator Mussini's comment on the need to rationalise our presence at international level, including from the point of view of buildings. This is a long-standing issue, which should fully enter the famous spending review of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course this involves, or should involve, the definition of a different relationship with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, because today, any eventual sale, sale, alienation of our properties abroad, even those not fully used, would end up in the cauldron of the state property and the proceeds could not be reused to acquire new headquarters in new situations, in countries today more interesting from the diplomatic point of view. We must take this matter into our own hands. It is not a new issue: we have tried to push in the last parliamentary term, we will continue to do so, and I thank my colleague for having introduced this issue. With regard to the question raised by Senator Scilipoti, I do not want to steal the trade from the Government, which will eventually provide, but it is not entirely free of charge that we make the sale of the property in question because, as we read in the Treaty, Article 3 says: The Government of the Republic of Lithuania undertakes to carry out at its own expense the necessary renovation work of the property that the current state requires and to maintain at its own expense the property in its integrity and in a state of good preservation. In view of the historical and artistic character of the building (...) In essence, the point is that we have a valuable property, in obviously dilapidated conditions; we offer it free of charge to Lithuania in order to host its diplomatic representation, in exchange for works that, in this way, value a property of high artistic and historical value that remains the property of the Italian Republic. For these reasons too, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from Senators Marino Luigi, Mussini and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u104	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u105	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill as a whole I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u108	CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, I am sorry, but before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I wanted to take advantage of the presence of the representative of the Government, the Undersecretary Giro. There were first some interventions by the 5 Star Movement Group and by Senator Zanda. As President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I would also like to say that we expect the Government to come to this House - I do not know whether as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or as the Ministry of the Interior - to give clear and transparent answers to public opinion about a very singular way of forced repatriation of the wife of the Kazakh dissident, Mrs Alma Shalabayeva, because I believe that this is what the public of our country requires. Any possible crime or behaviour, even to be condemned, cannot justify on national territory a practice that is completely unaware of the rules and also of the guarantees that are given to citizens who are in the national territory and who possibly ask for political asylum. This is an affair that cannot go through in silence and on which we do not accept the dumping of barrels between one and the other part of the government. The Commission has a collegial responsibility, and it has to give us a collective response. Excuse me, Mr President, but I wanted to supplement the things that have been said, because that is absolutely necessary. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u109	President Casini, your speech is absolutely appropriate and shared.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u110	The next item is the debate on draft law No 589. The rapporteur, Senator Russo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Russo.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u111	Mr President, Madam Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try briefly to describe some of the reasons of course interest to the Convention, whose ratification and enforcement we are called upon to authorise this evening. The Convention, adopted on 23 February 2006 by the 94th Maritime Session of the International Conference of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), meeting in Geneva, is an important contribution to the maritime sector as it aims to promote more dignified living and working conditions for seafarers, as well as fairer conditions of competition for ship operators and ship owners. It is a "consolidated" convention because it contains a set of global standards, which are included in 68 Conventions or recommendations on maritime labour adopted by the ILO since 1920. It is interesting to remember that among international organizations the ILO is in fact one of those with the greatest history and lineage. The founding act of the Organization was drawn up by an International Labour Commission, established even by the Treaty of Versailles, which concluded World War I. Since then, the number of Member States has grown to 177. I would like to mention and underline that, from its very beginnings, the ILO has the particularity of having a "tripartite" structure: it is composed not only of representatives of governments, but also of representatives of the workers and employers of each country, who can thus discuss, at global level, national experiences and policies. At the International Labour Conference, which takes place once a year, each State is represented by four delegates: two from the Government, one for trade unions and one for entrepreneurs. With regulatory acts such as the one before the Assembly today, the International Labour Organization carries out valuable work: on the one hand it promotes more dignified living and working conditions for workers around the world, regardless of the country in which they are and where they perform their services, on the other it guarantees better conditions of competition between economic operators. We all know this: establishing international rules that apply to everyone is in fact the only way to put a stop to that social dumping, to that extraordinary difference between working conditions in the North and the South of the world, between the richest and the emerging countries, which distorts the world economy and causes every day small and large tragedies. This is why the ILO is generally recognised as one of the most successful experiences among international organisations. In its activity, even with all its difficulties and limitations, it often manages to make a real contribution to the governance of globalisation that is often invoked as the only way to reconcile the opening of markets and economies with respect for human rights and competition. On the substance of the matter, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the Commissions meeting during the examination agreed to delete Article 4 on the rules to be applied to non-EU workers who are not resident in the European Union. The original text of the draft law provided, in Article 4, that the law governing the enlistment contract should be applicable to that relationship, in analogy with the provisions for Italian and Community seafarers. By deleting this article, the current legislation, which provides for the employment relationship in question to remain governed by the law chosen by the parties, has therefore remained in force. This amendment was the result of a thorough examination, an analysis of the comparative legislation of the main European countries and a comparison with the trade unions, who expressed their support for this amendment. The adoption of the amendment therefore does not diminish the guarantees vis-à-vis seafarers, who already find other forms of protection, but avoids the loss of competitiveness of the Italian merchant navy. Finally, I would like to focus on the time horizon within which we should implement the ratification and enforcement of the Convention. On 20 August 2012, the conditions for the entry into force of the Convention were met, which were "mixed" presuppositions, i.e. referring both to the number of States and to the share of the world's merchant fleet. With the ratifications of the Philippines and Russia, on the one hand, thirty ratifications have been reached and, on the other, the threshold of 33 percent of the gross tonnage of the world's merchant fleet. The Convention will therefore enter into force twelve months after that date. I therefore believe that it is necessary - in this sense we will call on Members of the House - to conclude the parliamentary process in time to allow ratification by the end of 20 August. It is in fact essential that, within that date, the Italian shipowners can obtain from the competent Italian administration, that is from the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports, the certifications that certify that own ships are conform to the requirements places from the norm in force, on the international plan, in the matter of safety and working conditions on board. Failure to ratify within that period, in fact, would expose the shipowning sector and the workers to the negative effects of a significant loss of competitiveness of our Country. The ships flying the flag of Italy without certification could even be subjected to the risk of administrative detention measures by the authorities of the countries of call that have ratified the Convention. Given that the global market for maritime transport is, in itself, strongly affected by the differences in the rules applicable by the regulatory authorities in each country, operators of international trade activities may, in view of this risk, consider it preferable to operate on carriers from other States. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Gibiino and Razzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u112	The rapporteur, Senator Gibiino, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u113	I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Gibiino.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us gives Chapter I, Article 1, the authorisation to ratify and Article 2 the implementing order. In Chapter II, on the other hand, it contains provisions for the adaptation of the national law to the Convention which is subject to ratification. These actions are aimed at meeting the needs highlighted by the European Social Rights Committee and the request for an amendment made by the Commission of experts for the implementation of ILO conventions and recommendations. On the substance, they adapt the provisions of the Navigation Code, introduced into our legal system in the socio-economic context of 1942, and which are contrary to the scope of the current legal principles, making effective the ways of protecting the rights of workers on board ships. In particular, Article 3 makes some changes to the navigation code. Paragraph 1 news article 368 of the Code, in order to preview that the discipline of the repatriation of foreign enlisted on Italian ships, referred to in Book II, Title IV, Chapter V of the Code, always finds application and not, as currently previewed, only on condition of reciprocity (i.e. provided that the State of which the enlisted alien is citizen assures equal treatment to the Italian citizens enlisted on ships that fly its flag). Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same Article refer to Articles 1091 and 1094 of the Code, which provide for the crimes, respectively, of desertion and non-compliance of order by the crew member, restricting the scope of the criminal penalty to the only conduct that poses a danger to the life and physical safety of persons or for the safety of navigation. Where, on the other hand, there is no breach of these primary assets and the conduct is solely detrimental to the efficiency and good performance of the ship's organisation, the penalty shall be replaced by a pecuniary administrative penalty. As has been anticipated by my colleague, Mr Russo, the Joint Commissions have provided for the deletion of Article 4 of the draft law, which amends the law applicable to the employment relationship of non-Community personnel who are not resident in the European Union on board ships registered in the International Register. Article 4 of the text proposed by the Commissions raises from fifteen to sixteen the minimum age required for registration in seafarers' freshmen. Article 5 introduces amendments to the medical certification of seafarers and health care on board. While at present the medical certificate attesting the suitability of seafarers to work on board ships always lasts two years from the date of issue, paragraph 1, while retaining in general the said term of duration of two years, reduces it to one year for seafarers who are less than eighteen years old. Moreover, by ministerial decree a shorter period of validity can be foreseen also in view of the specific tasks carried out by the marine one. Always to a ministerial decree is returned the discipline of the cases in which, for proven reasons of urgency or if the period of validity of the certificate expires in the course of a journey, a marine can be authorized to work on the basis of temporary medical certification, valid until the next port of call and of however duration not exceeding three months. In accordance with paragraph 2, passenger ships carrying out short and long international navigation shall have on board a qualified doctor responsible for health care. Article 6 repeals Article 36 of Law No 1045 of 1939, laying down provisions applicable to black seafarers, which are incompatible with the constitutional system. Article 7 provides for financial cover for expenses arising from mission expenses linked to the participation of representatives appointed by the Government in meetings of the Special Tripartite Committee, which is to monitor the Convention's application permanently, in accordance with Article XIII of the Convention. [[Applause from Senators Pelino, Razzi and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u115	As you are not included in the general discussion, and as neither the rapporteur nor the representative of the Government intends to intervene, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text proposed by the Commissions. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 589 We proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 589 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 589 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 589 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 5. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 589 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 6. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 589 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 7. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 589
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u118	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think that the rapporteurs have explained very well the importance of ratifying this Convention. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups]] , especially with regard to the global standards that are established here and the protection of workers, a fundamental issue that is pressing for all of us, because the protection of the health and life itself of workers comes first of all. I believe that this ratification must also be approved quickly by the House of Deputies. With this wish I conclude my speech by declaring the North League's vote in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u119	Let this speech be an example to others.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u122	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group, I am voting in favour of the ratification of the Maritime Labour Convention. [[Applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups]] I say this in order to clear the field from all doubt and, however, I do not give up, on my own behalf and on behalf of five-star citizens, to point out some considerations that have already emerged in the debate. The Convention is undoubtedly a step forward, and we have learned this by listening to trade associations and workers. The certification of maritime labour on the working and living conditions on board ships is a step towards the homogenisation and improvement of the condition of workers on board of all nationalities. Unfortunately, it will be the individual states that will issue this certification and someone may decide to reduce the number and quality of the controls a little, in order to take advantage of certain shipowners, who are not interested in their reputation. However, we want to be optimistic; a popular saying reads: The excellent is the enemy of the good. Today, therefore, we ratify good legislation; time will tell us whether it is perfectable and whether it will bear good fruit. Finally, allow me to greet with relief and a pinch of compassion, for those who had drafted and approved this law, the repeal of Article 36 of Law No. 1045 of 1939, which established a strict separation regime on ships for black people. A delay for which I think we should apologise. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Crosio and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u125	Razzi (PdL). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the PDL Group's vote in favour, and I would ask you to submit my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u126	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u129	Sonego (PD). Mr President, it seems to me that there has been a good race for short speeches and I will try to compete. I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u132	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u133	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the draft law as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u134	Colleagues, consider the circumstances and in view of the requests for intervention at the end of the session, if you all agree, I would prefer that the examination of the constitutional bill no. 813 and 343 were postponed until tomorrow morning. Since no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u137	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, we often use this space to commemorate someone or to bring a tragic event to the attention of the House. I want to share some good news with you today and make an appeal at the same time. Marianna is a nine-year-old girl followed by the pediatric oncology department of the Second University of Naples. At the age of six, with an apparent, banal and common febrile episode, his ordeal begins: acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. After two years of exhausting treatment to eradicate evil, she seems healed. But it's only one month of apparent calm. Evil returns: in jargon it is called relapse. Doctors tell the mother that the only cure for little Marianna is bone marrow transplantation. We therefore need a donor (this in December 2012). Marianna waits, while risking her life every day. All he can do is wait and hope. Many times families wait unnecessarily, helpless, because little patients suffering from onco-haematologic diseases do not always have a compatible brother in the family. In the end, however, there is also a possibility for Marianna, a hope: a compatible donor. At the beginning of July 2013 the possibility of having a normal life seems to resume form. Statistics say that the chance to find a compatible donor is 1 in 100,000. My appeal is to pay more attention to bone marrow donation. There must be widespread information action, because unfortunately in Italy many people do not know of the great possibility of combating leukemias, lymphomas, myeloma and other cancers of the blood through the donation of the bone marrow and stem cells contained in the umbilical cord. In Italy, few know that donating the bone marrow is a very simple procedure: to register for the World Register of Donors, and therefore to enter the database, a simple blood collection is enough. The real donation, if you are called to save someone's life, can be done by a classic method, namely the removal of stem cells from the iliac crest, performed under anesthesia (so without pain for the donor), or by an innovative method, which consists in the withdrawal of stem cells from peripheral blood (with a simple donation of blood, to understand us), after having taken in the three days before the donation a drug, free of side effects for the donor. So a banal blood transfusion is practiced and a life - saving one is saved. I would also like to remind you that at this time all the transfusion centres in Italy are in emergency. Unfortunately, during the summer period, the number of blood donors decreases dramatically; on the other hand, the number of patients requiring periodic transfusions increases. My appeal is to remind everyone that blood donation should be a civic duty rather than an act of elitist generosity and humanity. Too bad that we are always too busy thinking about something else, because in the end the problem is who has it. For once we think of those who are ill, of those who are waiting, of those who need help, of the facts and not only with beautiful and useless words. Saving a life is easier than you think. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u140	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking only in relation to the motion for a resolution No 3, which was adopted this afternoon, in order to request that the documents be left with the correction of the voting choice of our component, which is contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u141	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u144	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak in response to yet another speech in this House concerning acts of so-called violence - whether or not it is - which have taken place in Val di Susa. I read the excerpt of a letter that a citizen wrote to me and sent to me, which reads as follows. Stories interrogating. Those that daily mark the territory of the Valley of Susa, land of water and rock, land of countless beauties hidden between woods and paths and defaced by that new that advances and that covers everything of asphalt and concrete. And that for some years has been advancing with fences, barbed wire (the best), concerts, heritage of other lands, those of Gaza, for example. (...) The stories narrated around this work of high speed, at this first tiny beginning of geognostic gallery, are those that regularly fill the pages of the newspapers: violence, throws of stones, resistance... Too bad we never talk about those terrible tear gas at the CS, banned in war but used here as in other squares, carcinogenic and mutagenic gases... True stories and built stories are mixed up in this non-democracy place, where those who arrive are photographed, filmed, identified and patient if the Constitution states that citizens are free to circulate throughout the national territory. I mean, everywhere, but not here. (...) Lately there are also many stories about the great work of the TAV: there are strange accidents, means that are set on fire, workers going to the emergency room. Many stories to verify, but regularly assigned to the violence unleashed by the "no TAVs." The last story is that of the beginning of last week, when at night two vehicles of the yard were set fire to the tires, with cubes of "diavoline," those used to light the stoves. A fire beginning promptly extinguished by some workers who intervened (so they were there!). This is the story published in the newspapers, which of course did not fail to name the usual "no TAV" as likely performers. But next to that, there's more details. In the previous afternoon a high valley administrator had said that in the evening there would surely be some new taffoglio. But the only thing scheduled, and then it happened regularly, was dinner with the Occitan dances and then the final with the bonfire. Then everyone to bed. Imagine the surprise of learning about the fire start the next day... The question then is inevitable: who and why had the wax in his hand? Why was there a rumor that something would happen? In this direction it would be appropriate to look for answers, thus avoiding finding easier solutions at hand. And trying, even if this is much more challenging and tiring, to listen to the reasons of a population who is talking to rubber walls and who would like to find again the opportunity to dialogue between people with the same basic desires and rights. Gabriella Tittonel, valsusina. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u147	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I come back to a seismic event that has hit and is hitting my land, Lunigiana and nearby Garfagnana, the extreme edge of Tuscany. Shocks higher than the fourth degree have occurred: there have already been seven higher than the fourth degree. The most powerful was 5.2 degrees. Eight days ago we had a 4.5-degree shock; 14 days ago there was a 4.2-degree shock. Hundreds were the shocks above the third degree. All shocks above the third grade involve the return of technicians to visit again the countries and destructions that have occurred. The culture of this land has meant that the constructions since 1920, as my colleague Massimo Caleo, who intervened first on these seismic events, were built well: in fact there were neither dead nor wounded. This, however, which is a prerogative of that land, is being highlighted as a damage, because the area is abandoned to itself. The interventions of the Region are not precise and punctual, because the area is considered marginal. Nobody takes responsibility for anything. Just think that at the disposition of the bishop, in the churches, even if accessible, no one can enter. Therefore, there can be no weddings, no confirmations, no communions, which are always held outdoors, because everyone is afraid that what happened to the Eagle will happen and that geophysicists will be blamed for not having predicted earthquakes. The striking example is that of Dr. Boschi, a world icon in the field of earthquake science, who has suffered a severe condemnation with others. Mr President, I would ask you to ask the Government to intervene, because the people are not getting answers from anyone. The same civil protection officer, Franco Gabrielli, is perhaps inadequate. Give us back Bertolaso who is certainly much more competent: he criticized the United States in Haiti and this led to his exit from the political scene. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, the Americans intercept the European Chancellors and our own, all the more so those who criticize them; we know something about socialist culture after Sigonella. Well, I think Gabrielli doesn't have great skills and skills and perhaps it would be appropriate for the Government to consider replacing him by absolute failure, at least in the context of the earthquake of Lunigiana and Garfagnana, just because he hasn't seen himself, he left the people to sleep in the tents and lacks any news and information. The ugliest thing is to have no information, continuing the earth to tremble and continuing the technicians to turn on themselves, because no one takes responsibility anymore even to let people into church to pray. Thank God the schools are closed, because otherwise we would no longer have any building that could accommodate our children. We hope that the schools can reopen on September 11, at the beginning of the school year (it is a bad date on September 11, but it is the beginning of the lessons also for our lands of Lunigiana and Garfagnana). It is with this hope that I invite the President to speak to the Government, so that even those lands are considered - as Senator Giovanardi said - as all other lands affected by earthquakes in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u148	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-60.ana.u149	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Tuesday, July 9, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.43.
