ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pizzetti, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.04).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 783-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u6	On what, Senator Lucidi? LUCIDES (M5S). On the record, I would like clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u7	It's already approved. We've moved on to the agenda, Senator Lucidi. I'm sorry, but he didn't intervene early. The speakers, Senators Sciascia and Tomaselli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Sciascia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure which returns to us from the House contains important changes, particularly in the area of taxation. First of all, I would like to point out that Article 15 provides for the Government to approve, by 31 December 2013, rules that make fiscal incentives stable, i.e. that they apply, with rates to be determined, for a period well beyond the present, which as you know is six to twelve months. In addition, the Chamber has also added the additional case concerning the installation of waste water purification plants for arsenic contamination to which, therefore, are responsible, to the extent permitted, both the tax deductions for energy efficiency interventions, and those provided for in Article 16 for building renovations. The new paragraph 1-a of Article 15 provides that with further measures, to be adopted by 31 December 2013, consideration should be given to facilitating further interventions in the construction sector such as solar shields, the replacement of asbestos with non-polluting material and other minor interventions. In Article 16, paragraph 1-a has been added, which allows the deduction of 65% also for the adoption of anti-seismic measures on buildings located in areas with high seismic hazard indicated by measures already in place. A new article, on 16- bis, has been introduced, which provides that the Ministry of Economy and Finance promotes, in agreement with the ABI, a verification of the conditions that credit institutions offer to those who intend to take advantage of the tax benefits, both for energy efficiency interventions, and for those of building renovation, to finance the necessary works for such interventions and services. In Article 19, significant changes are introduced in relation to the increase in VAT, from 4% to 21%, for publishing products to which supplementary media are attached. In particular, it is clearly defined what is meant by supplementary support, i.e. tapes, discs, video cassettes, other sound media, video magnets or digital media, and that the increase mentioned above from 4 to 21 percent does not apply to the media sold, even for free and in a single package, together with the books for schools of every order and grade, for universities and books usable by the visual disabled. Further condition is that the publishing products mentioned above have an indistinguishable price and cannot be marketed separately. I would like to remind you that these rules have taken effect since 1 January 2014. These new rules have fully implemented the agenda approved by a totalitarian majority by this Senate which called for the non-application of the increase in VAT, as it happens, to the supplementary aids of editorial products for schools and disabled people. Article 21 on financial provisions specifies the total costs (which remain unchanged) and their financial cover.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u9	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli. (Brusio). I would ask colleagues to lower the level of the bustle, because it is difficult for the rapporteurs to do this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u10	Madam President, I rise to supplement the references that Mr Sciascia referred to and with which the main changes made in the examination of the measure to the House of Deputies were summarised and reported to the Senate Assembly. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that during the examination in the Chamber, further amendments have been made, in particular to the first part of the measure, from Article 2 to Article 7, which is concentrated in transposing Community Directive No 31 of 2010, on energy performance in the construction sector. In particular, some definitions have been modified by broadening the meaning and meaning, especially with regard to the concepts of exported energy, of total annual needs for primary energy, of thermal plant extended to the definition of technological plants. Reference is also made to the need for the Ministry of Economic Development to take advantage of ENEA's competence in issuing decrees relating to the design arrangements for these plants. Furthermore, the text of Article 5 on the definition of a National Action Plan for so-called quasi-zero-energy buildings has been incorporated, introducing the need to take due account of the priority, shared by all, of the containment of land use. Article 6 has introduced a further innovation on which, during the examination in the Commissions meeting 6a and 10a of the Senate, we have not failed to unanimously represent to the Government our objections and our critical assessments. I am referring in particular to the introduction of a clause on the nullity of sales contracts as well as contracts relating to the transfer of buildings free of charge and of the same new lease agreements if the energy performance certificate is not attached to them. The nullity clause of the contracts to us seemed particularly penalizing, so much so that during the examination in the aforementioned Commissions was approved an agenda, accepted by the Government and unanimously signed by all the Groups, with which the Government commits itself to one of the next measures to revise this rule, which we consider to be penalising. I know that there are also a number of agendas that have been tabled by various groups in this direction. I would also like to refer briefly to an amendment to Article 14 with which a further provision has been made for the connection and use of ENEA with regard to the monitoring and assessment of the impact of energy saving achieved following the implementation of energy redevelopment of buildings and of interventions relating to common parts of buildings: a kind of monitoring that I believe can be useful, and that we share, for the better effectiveness of the interventions provided for in this measure. The last reference concerns the forecast, introduced with article 16- bis (to which my colleague Sciascia referred), of the commitment between the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Italian Banking Association to build a link for the definition of a framework agreement that can facilitate access to consumer credit to the measures dealt with by the measure under consideration. I would remind you that on this point we accepted an agenda, during the examination in the Commissions, with which we invite the Government, in the work to be done together with the Italian Banking Association, to inform and involve consumer associations and the main associations in the building sector. It seems to me that I have briefly summarized the main changes made by the House of Deputies, which put us in a position to approve the text definitively, given the forthcoming expiry of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u11	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u12	Madam President, the draft law under consideration, which arrives in the Senate at the third reading after having been approved with amendments to the Chamber of Deputies, brings the conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 63 of 4 June 2013. This act of the Senate is proof that we are able to bring ideas and contributions in the general interest of the country and in relation to the real problems that go through it. It was we who proposed here, at the Senate, in the first reading of this measure, the agendas that were then approved, through which the Government undertook to provide initiatives aimed at giving stability to the tax facilitations for the energy efficiency of buildings, currently planned to be 65 percent only until 31 December 2013, in order to allow the achievement of the European objectives to 2020, and to consider the opportunity to address and resolve the issues in question through interventions aimed at promoting access to credit for energy efficiency measures and building renovation. It is we who will propose here an agenda, which we hope will be adopted, in which we call for initiatives in the Stability Act for 2014 to give stability to the tax facilitation for the energy efficiency of buildings, so as to allow - I repeat - the achievement of the European objectives by 2020. In recent years, also thanks to the decisive impetus of the European Union, it has emerged the need to promote the energy efficiency of the Member States, considering, in addition to the specific actions on energy efficiency, also the economic and social dimension of development, intended as an opportunity to improve competitiveness and research and, consequently, increase employment and productivity. The definition of guidelines and actions to reduce energy consumption through energy saving and energy efficiency and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is a priority to which the country system must give precise and reliable answers and guidelines. Reducing energy consumption is also a priority under the 20-20-20 energy efficiency targets. In particular, in the construction sector, they account for 40% of the total energy consumed in the European Union. This comparison must be focused on the instrument of tax deduction for energy redevelopment of buildings - ecobonus - which has generated numerous benefits since 2007. The deductions are one of the main instruments contained in the national energy strategy for achieving these targets in 2020. Over time this mechanism has become increasingly widespread in the national territory. In the first five years of activity, about 5.5% of the national building stock has undergone a cycle of energy redevelopment, global or partial, and it is estimated that about 5% of Italian households have benefited from the 55% deduction.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u13	Senator Castaldi, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u14	CASTALDI (M5S). I'm going a little further. The results for the period 2007-2011 are very considerable. There are about 1,300,000 total practices and there are total investments of 15,500 million euros. In short, there is a total energy saving of primary energy of more than 8 million gigawattora per year. Let's say that investments in quality building, energy saving, renewable sources, innovation and research and, more generally, in green economy interventions are an important driver for the recovery of the Italian economy from the serious and prolonged economic crisis in place, because they allow to combine the objective of greater competitiveness and modernization of the country with a model of sustainable development for the environment and society... president. Please conclude, Senator Castaldi. CASTALDI (M5S). ...close to the needs of communities, territories and citizens. Thank you for the time you gave me. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u15	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u16	Madam President, representative of the Government, fellow senators, the ecobonus decree returns to the Senate after some substantial changes made to the House. However, some variations are negative, such as the amendment tabled by the 5 Star Movement and approved by the majority, which states that the energy performance certificate must be annexed to the contract of sale or to the new leases, subject to the nullity of the same contracts. It is in our opinion another error, which follows the one related to the amendment, again of the 5 Star Movement, presented here to the Senate and approved by all (except by the North League), which introduces the obligation to issue the certificate also to the buildings transferred free of charge. So another rule, ladies and gentlemen, which introduces new tasks and burdens on property owners, especially at this particular time of crisis. But wasn't the ecobonus decree supposed to meet taxpayers' expectations? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Why, then, do you insist on making the first of the class behind the poor people, in order to wave the flag of the environmentalist? Fortunately, however, there are also important improvements, such as the stabilisation of incentives from next year, thanks to an amendment tabled by the North League and voted - I stress - unanimously with the favourable opinion of the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , which obliges the Commission to go beyond the extension phase. The extension of the benefits, after the heat pumps and appliances introduced at first reading, also to solar shields and micro-cogeneration, as well as to the interventions of water efficiency and substitution of asbestos, but above all to the adoption of anti-seismic measures on buildings falling in areas of high seismic danger. It will also be welcomed by the families the annulment of the unreasonable and inconsistent forecast of an increase in VAT (from 4 to 21 per cent) on supplementary aids to school texts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , which our group here at the Senate at first reading had tabled, after a first rejected amendment, an agenda which was then signed by all the parliamentary groups. Before concluding, I would like to highlight, on the one hand, the doubts raised by the General Accounting Office of the State regarding the lack of State resources to cover the improvement amendments and, on the other hand, the role of the Government, which has expressed its intention to bear on its own account the burdens necessary to cover the measure. It is clear that such an attitude denotes a lack of responsibility on the part of the Commission, because the unknown on financial cover risks once again betraying the expectations of citizens and businesses; and that is precisely what we do not need. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u17	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u18	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues in the League, who have been so kind as to tell us that we are not interested in people, when I seem to recall that the funds for underdeveloped areas paid for milk quota fines. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] It seems to me that it is a very interesting example of how well people's money is used; so you deserve a little bit, since you are so good. Having said that, on this measure - entering into the substance - an agenda presented by the 5 Star Movement was approved at first reading, in which it was asked to assess a plan to efficiency all the public real estate, with a horizon of twenty-five years. Since this agenda has been approved, we urge the Government to do so. I would also like to express a moderate satisfaction with the improvement made in Article 5 on the action plan to increase buildings with almost zero energy. We consider the reference to the need to contain the consumption of the territory to be good; it is a pity that, in fact, there are no instruments to punish the violation or circumvention of the rule. In this way, the article merely expresses a good intention and nothing more. Similarly, I believe that it was a good choice to allow the use of the financial instruments referred to in Article 4-b to public hospitals as well. With regard, however, to the nullity of the contracts of sale and lease in the case of the lack of the certificate of energy performance, maybe it is a solution a little 'extreme: we know that the energy quality of the buildings is fundamental, but we can reconcile the requirement of certification with the need not to burden the primary good of the house, perhaps ending carefully the times of adoption of the certification. Just use some common sense. I now give a few words to the national database where data flows relating to beneficiaries can be combined. This is an interesting change, which we think is good: let's make it work well and enter the regime, so that we can verify some hypothetical creeping forms of speculation. With regard to incentives, we are pleased that the duration of the incentives has been extended, but we ask that these interventions become definitive: if we really want to intervene on this absolutely primary sector, which is in crisis like the whole construction sector, efficiency interventions can give a great boost in this sector and, therefore, perhaps the use of incentives can help us in this respect. Perhaps it would also be interesting, only on the front of thermal sources, to evaluate - perhaps this we will ask the Government - the fact of making the tax deduction compatible with the white certificates. This, too, is a sector in crisis and thermal sources have substantially a very low cost, but they can make a great contribution to a sector that is - even that - in great crisis. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u19	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the energy decree goes back to the Senate and brings with it the strong hope that the incentives can stabilize for 2014. This is an amendment which, as my colleague from the North League said earlier, our Group tabled in Montecitorio. This shows that our group is the only minority group in this government. So, it is a very positive attitude that there has been. This is a presentation that gives strength to a work we have done in the Commission, both in the House and in the Senate. The structural incentives concerned water and energy efficiency, seismics, the safety of buildings, the purification of water polluted by arsenic and the replacement of asbestos roofs. This is what is good in the decree. Madam President, it is clear that Italy remains with a balance that I would call so in the trade balance, but the big problem is the decrease in domestic demand. The problem of small and medium-sized enterprises remains. Lately, even family-run businesses, which have managed more than others to keep business balances discreet, are beginning to have major problems. Large problems are also linked to artisan companies, which are the backbone of this economic sector of the country. There is the big problem of access to credit. For the banks there has been a blind protection that has affected the release of liquidity to the enterprises; this has caused a stagnation, Madam President, that is compromising the entire economic sector, risking to trivialize how good there is in this measure. These measurements are a blood bag given to an anemic economy. We would certainly have liked another more complete, more current, more forceful measure, but to a sick person we give what he needs and for an anemic it is better a blood bag than an IV of water and sugar. However, this decree-law goes in the right direction with regard to some of the measures contained in it, but we are vigilant that the work and relaunch of small and medium-sized enterprises is not just an illusion. We have also been a little critical about the financing system. The financial coverage in the House has not always been very clear; we have denounced some shortcomings in this respect, but we stick to what the Budget Committee and the Government have said about it. With this decree-law we also come out of the infringement procedure that the European Commission has opened against Italy. Europe often concludes its advice with great declarations and few concrete acts, except then translate everything into measures restricting budgetary policies. Madam President, we must add that an Italian company pays 30% more energy than German companies. This is an issue that we have already dealt with in the 10th Commission these days, but we see no light at the end of the tunnel, no solution that can allow our companies to be competitive. In addition, our companies pay even if they want luxury (and when I say "go luxury" it means if they can access credit), from 2 to 3 points more interest than German ones when they get a loan. This is another issue that must certainly be addressed carefully. In this provision there are good things and things that can certainly be improved. We have good companies and entrepreneurs, we have good workers: we just have to do good things for them and put them in the best conditions to work. This is my group's wish for a measure which certainly deserved much more attention, but which nevertheless sees us quite satisfied with the work done in the Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u21	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u22	Madam President, I am going to make a shorter speech than expected, so I would ask you, if necessary, to make up for the time saved at the stage of the amendments. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, talking about energy saving in this period is in fashion. This was witnessed a moment ago by the intervention of Senator Arrigoni, who spoke of something modified in the House, but not knowing well (or perhaps not at all) the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which in Article 104 provides the possibility for the Senate to amend the changes introduced by the House. Well, that would give you the chance to correct something wrong, and that's what hasn't been done since the beginning, even during the first reading here in the Senate. We could talk about a lot of things. I am only opening quotes, which I will close immediately, Madam President, to report on the impossibility and inability of the Senate of the Republic to intervene and to amend the measures at the moment. The political forces represented in Parliament, without exception, must, however, now - at the crucial stage that Italy and Europe are going through - contribute to the decisions to be taken for the renewal of the country. (...) There is work to be done concretely, with patience and constructive spirit, spending and acquiring skills first and foremost in the Chamber and Senate Commissions. Madam President, this is not a speech I made: President Napolitano did so. We have all the respect, but you must have the same respect in making the Commissions and Parliament work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u23	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u24	I call the rapporteur, Senator Sciascia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u25	Madam President, I have nothing to add in reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u26	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u27	Madam President, I too do not intend to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u28	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking only to express the Government's greatest satisfaction with the Senate, as we have done in the House, where we have produced very fruitful work, especially after the great sprint given in this House, also following the agendas accepted. The reference is to publishing and anti-seismic norms. We have had more time to find suitable financial cover. It is a measure that has had great success and attention. This is the reason why the Government has committed itself, also through an amendment for 2014 and with the acceptance of agendas, to make the one under consideration a structural measure, at least until 2020, the year in which the basin of the buildings for public and private residential use of our country must tend to have a capacity of electricity consumption almost zero. Our satisfaction is for working with this spirit. In the House, out of 481 votes, 480 Members voted in favour and there was only one abstention, as happened earlier here in the Senate. Given the greatest appreciation of the two rooms, the lines contained in this measure will constitute the Government's commitment to ensure that what Parliament has voted on becomes a structural rule that will allow families to plan up to 2020 the necessary investments in energy efficiency and the purchase of appliances compatible with the approved standards.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u30	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u31	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the draft law in title, gives, as far as it is within its competence, a non-obstacle opinion. With regard to the amendments submitted by the Assembly, the opinion is simply contrary to the 16-a.100 proposal, while it is not an obstacle to all the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u32	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u33	Madam President, I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 6.4, otherwise the opinion is against it. As far as agenda G6.2 is concerned, I shall return to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u34	The G6.2 agenda is totally absorbed by the G6.1 agenda, which has been welcomed, accepted and voted in favour of by the Commission, so I do not think it should be put to the vote. The Commission has already expressed its views and the Government has expressed its support for its acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u35	The premises of the two agendas are different, so the presenter, if she thinks, may insist on the vote. In this case, what is the Government's understanding? Mr VICARI, State Secretary for Economic Development. In this case, the Government accepts the agenda G6.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u36	Amendment 6.3 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u39	SANTANGELO (M5S). In view of the latest changes made in the course of the work on the request for electronic voting, I would ask for a simultaneous vote by electronic voting on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u40	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.4 tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G6.1 and G6.2 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u41	I call on all the amendments to Article 14 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u42	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u43	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 14. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bellot and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 14.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 14.3 tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 15 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u44	I call on all the amendments to Article 15 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u45	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u46	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 15. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 15.1 tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 15.2 tabled by Senator Santangelo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 15.3 tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 15.4 tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 15.5 tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u49	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that the senator next to Senator Caridi is jumping quail, passing from one station to another and voting with the two ballots that are present there.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u50	I'm begging the Senator Secretary to check the station's regularity. We proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to in Article 15 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be illustrated and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u51	Madam President, on the agenda, I return to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u52	I welcome the G15.1 and G15.2 agendas. With regard to the G15.3 agenda, the Government is in favour of accepting it as a recommendation, or with a rewording in the part of the operative part of the following text: It commits the Government to consider considering, for the purposes of the definition of measures and incentives....................................................................................................................................... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Madam Undersecretary, but we can't work. I beg the secretary senators to pick up the cards from the unoccupied senators' stations. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] , State Secretary for Economic Development. I repeat: it commits the Government to consider considering, for the purposes of defining measures and incentives for the installation of waste water treatment plants from arsenic contamination, also exceeding the limit values for boron and fluoride, etc.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u53	Senator Santangelo, do you accept the rewording suggested by the government? SANTANGELO (M5S). I accept this reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G15.1, G15.2 and G15.3 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 16-a of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u54	I call for all the amendments tabled to Article 16-a to be withdrawn; otherwise, the opinion is against them. On the agenda G16- bis.1 I return to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u55	As far as the amendments are concerned, I am in agreement with the rapporteur's amendment, while on the G16-a agenda. 1 I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u56	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16-a.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u59	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 16-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u60	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 16-a.1, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16-a.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 16-a.2 tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16-a.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 16- bis.3 tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 16-a.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 16- bis.4 tabled by Senator Santangelo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16-a.100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 16-a.100 tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B PRESIDENT. The G16- bis.1 agenda was accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u63	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, I would ask for the vote. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u64	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G16- bis.1, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783-B
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u67	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration, on which the Mixed Group and the SEL component in the Senate abstained by asking a number of questions, in our view it certainly represents - we hope - a reversal of the trend, not only in order to overcome the infringement procedure that had been initiated against Italy for the late transposition of the European directive, but also because we hope that it will really serve to put serious policies in place in the field of energy efficiency and savings. Among other things - and the Undersecretary knows perfectly well - the deduction on energy efficiency at a time of crisis had been an anti-cyclical measure. We have seen the data and we have seen that it has given the opportunity to create jobs, to get small and medium-sized enterprises to work, and above all it has started a very important work on efficiency and energy saving, on which, thanks to this instrument, we have started to achieve important results. The same increase in the deduction for building renovations, at a time of enormous crisis in the whole building sector, is an opportunity to make that conversion operation also for small and medium-sized enterprises in the great work that we have before us, namely the energy redevelopment of buildings and urban regeneration, building renovation. Undersecretary Vicari, on the measure approved by the Senate we had expressed our abstention because we believe that such measures should be made stable and structural. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u68	Colleagues, I ask you to leave the Chamber, otherwise it is impossible to speak with this voice of background. [[Applause from Senators Puglia and Endrizzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u69	We had put the question very strongly: precisely because of the validity of the measures we thought it necessary to make them stable, because in all energy policies, and especially in environmental policies, the stability of the measures and the rules is absolutely fundamental; changing continuously means not encouraging the investment, the start-up of the sector involved, because nobody for only six months, especially in a situation such as the current one, plan to make investments and restructuring. Therefore, there is a need for stability. From this point of view, the House, with the constraint of the decree to be adopted by December 31, 2013, even by receiving the agendas approved by the Senate, took a step forward. We obviously hope that this inclusion in Article 15 can be reversed in a decree or in the law of stability of the Government. This is absolutely crucial to us. I shall not dwell on all the amendments, but then I will make a few comments on what is wrong. It was important, and we strongly asked for it, to include water efficiency and extend, even if only for waters contaminated with arsenic, the purification systems. It would have been essential to extend this measure also in general, and to introduce it also within the rule concerning incentives for household appliances (just did not add the word "big"). However, this is also a step that we welcome. Other changes have also been introduced, which may have been better not to have been approved. The agenda approved by the Senate required the possibility of extending the deduction of 65% to restructuring interventions for seismic adjustment, but this measure was restricted only to areas 1 and 2, leaving out, for example, zone 3 (and we know what this means for Emilia). There are critical situations, such as the rigidity of having to include, even in leases, the energy performance certificate. In the end, however, from this point of view, the House's amendments are certainly positive. That is why we, unlike the past time, will vote in favour. Of course, we wish you well. And I say that because we will also talk about it when we examine the decree of doing, which again addresses the energy issue. I think it's time that we arrived at a measure that intervenes more comprehensively and organically on the energy strategy of our country. We still do not know what the Minister for the Environment Orlando and the Minister for Development Zanonato intend to do about the national energy strategy (SEN) approved by the Monti Government. We have noted that there is still oscillation, with attitudes which are certainly not in favour of a national energy strategy and sovereignty. I believe it is time not to confine ourselves to this decree on energy efficiency, but to tackle fully the question of the country's transition to renewable sources and the escape from dependence on fossil fuels. This issue can no longer be dealt with in a number of decrees, with rules that often contradict one another. It is time, indeed, if you want to give a strong push to the economic recovery, to address the issue overall, clearly outlining the country's strategy. This decree bears witness to the fact that investing in energy efficiency, the environment, redevelopment and construction restructuring is not only an example of an environmentally friendly economy, but also an example of how the environment can provide an important response and opportunity to emerge from the crisis in this country. That is why the Misto-SEL Group will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u72	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, after one of the previous speeches, a premise is due. Dear citizen of the 5 Star Movement, when you talk about milk quotas and North farmers, please inform yourself before speaking, to say falsehoods and commonplaces. Read, study the report of the carabinieri filed with all the prosecutors of Italy, in which it is shown that in the South there are hundreds of breeders with quotas, but without cows and without milk. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You're from the LN-Aut group. Bravo! BELLOT (LN-Aut). Without these false quotas, European plafonds would never have been overtaken by our North farmers. If you want, I'll get you a copy. Read it and spread it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You're from the LN-Aut group. Bravo! BELLOT (LN-Aut). And let's get back to the topic on the agenda. Today this Assembly is preparing to dismiss a measure that certainly in this phase of recession for the country can represent an effective instrument of support to the consumption and the development of the enterprises, especially those of the construction sector. That is why our vote, as we have already said, will be in favour. A favourable vote that, however, does not hide our regret at the fact that, again on this occasion, the Government has not intended to take any step forward in the adoption of a broader industrial policy, aimed at restoring competitiveness to the productive fabric of the country. The effects of the crisis that we are going through cannot be fully understood, and therefore counteract, if we do not take into account the specificity of the Italian economic fabric, which is characterized by small and medium-sized enterprises, with a strongly territorial vocation, which have always been the driving force of the country's economy. These enterprises are today in a state of deep suffering. Many of them are now doomed to closure because of the lack of liquidity they have, due to the difficulties of access to bank credit, and the strong fiscal oppression, which is among the highest in Europe. The company that fails, not because of debts but because of lack of payments, especially from the public administration, not because of lack of capacity or spirit of initiative, but because of the closure of the banks to grant financing, embodies the failure of the State. The main drivers of this international economic crisis, which has also invested our country, are certainly financial institutions and banks. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You're from the LN-Aut group. Bravo! BELLOT (LN-Aut). Just those banks that today, denying credit to businesses and families, condemn them to failure and despair. This international crisis is not a virtual phenomenon. It explodes, in fact, on a precise date, 2007, with the failure of one of the largest American business banks, the Lehman Brothers. The speculative strategies adopted by these banks, through the realization of a creative finance, have caused the death of the real economy. For too many years we have abandoned a very basic concept: from work and ingenuity we generate production and, therefore, wealth. Gentlemen, the myth of King Midas to turn lead into gold was madness then and it is even more so today. The banks themselves responsible for the crisis that are experiencing families and businesses have not actually paid and will never pay any consequences for their deviant behaviour. The mistakes of the past have little taught: instead of sanctioning speculative behaviour adopted by business banks, they have been refinanced and recapitalised, and also without obliging them to avoid new speculative attitudes and opening up credit to businesses and families. (The Undersecretary Vicari leaves the Chamber.) A short time ago, this Assembly approved the conversion into law of a decree-law by which the Government de facto commissary a private company because it was held responsible for having caused damage to the environment and the health of citizens over the years. What damage to health is more serious than what causes death? I'm sorry no government representative is here.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u73	The government representative asked to leave for technical reasons. If you wish, you can suspend your explanation of vote and wait for your return, or continue; your speech will be read in the Report. I repeat, the Undersecretary warned the Presidency correctly before leaving.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u74	Madam President, while I respect those who are present in this House, I will continue my speech, but respect is also due to us by the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So I will no longer say "Governors of the Government," who I hope will read this speech anyway, and I will address only the Presidency and the Senators. In recent years financial institutions and business banks have been responsible for attitudes that could be traced back to the crime of incitement to suicide. How many entrepreneurs, deprived of credit and forced not to pay their workers, felt guilty for dishonoring a commitment that, with difficulty, was carried out for generations? Not putting up with this shame, desperate, they had no other solution but to take their own life! Ours is not a provocation! If you, and I'm referring to the government gentlemen, unfortunately absent, but someone will tell them... (The Undersecretary Vicari is back in the Chamber). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellot, right now the Undersecretary has taken over. BELLOT (LN-Aut). ...you have considered it possible to proceed to the expropriation of an activity of enterprise like that of the Ilva, without however making any qualms regarding the respect of the constitutional principle that protects the private activity, then have the courage to commissioner the banks of business. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Have the courage to set limits to speculative finance. Have the courage to do so by looking into the eyes of the family members of the victims of this crisis. And if you have this courage, gentlemen, which we are sure will never happen, we promise you from now on our trust and support, because you would prove not to be servants of great finance and strong powers, but to be truly at the service of the people! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u77	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, this decree-law is an important opportunity for growth and recovery for sectors in great difficulty. It provides for the redevelopment and energy efficiency of the Italian real estate assets, aligning them fully with the European Union and putting an end to two infringement procedures against Italy, initiated by the European Commission. It shows a clear and defined path, aimed at improving the energy performance of buildings, stimulating energy diversification, renewable sources and anti-seismic restructuring, promoting, restructuring and improving the quality of the existing building heritage. Civic Choice is satisfied with the results achieved with this measure, which contributes to energy saving and at the same time improves the building situation of our country. The decree thus contributes to the economic development and strengthening of a construction and plant sector, made up of industrial and craft enterprises, in which Italy is equipped and at the forefront. Among all the interventions contained in the decree, fundamental is the raising of the deduction for energy efficiency interventions from 55 to 65 percent. It was also appropriate to extend the incentives in question to the whole of 2014, while maintaining the wish of Civic Choice for the incentives themselves to become structural, together with other interventions that combine energy efficiency, stimulus to the economy and fight tax evasion. If, in recent years, some half a million jobs have been lost in the construction sector, the benefit will also be wood furniture, kitchens and the white industry, sectors that have really suffered in recent years. But this measure is important because it does not simply affect economic recovery, but it also goes, as other colleagues have pointed out, in the direction of protecting Italian families and citizens, improving the ecology, as it were, of the domestic environment. This is a decree that moves in the right direction, but the way forward is still long. For example, as we have already pointed out on an agenda approved in the previous Senate passage, domestic and industrial energy storage instruments linked to the use of renewable energy should be encouraged. More generally, tax incentives are a formidable - and, all in all, relatively inexpensive - tool for directing consumption and investment towards the construction of a richer, more supportive and, together, more sustainable society. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u80	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, on 3 July last we voted on this decree with a series of contents that did not satisfy us of the 5 Star Movement and above all the Italian civil society, understood in this case as the world of entrepreneurs, industrial and craft, trade unions, the financial world and consumers. All these categories, in fact, asked us (and are still waiting) for a stabilisation of the legislative legislation on a system of tax deductible for energy efficiency interventions and anti-seismic consolidation. It should be a trivial and obvious consideration that businesses and citizens need a stable and long-term regulatory framework to be able to plan their productions and services on the one hand and their purchases of such products and services on the other. But this trivial consideration seems to be an exception in our country, in general and in this specific situation in particular, since so far it has been done more and more times to extend an incentive measure of a very short period, thus creating in the Italian civil society an attitude of mistrust, uncertainty and distrust in the institutions: sentiments that, in fact, translate into a disincentive to invest in the long term thus creating a real economic development. I therefore note very sadly that the majority of the Senate had not been able to correctly transpose these requests, which we had heard firsthand at the hearing at the 10th Commission (the relevant Commission), we now have some satisfaction in transposing what our colleagues in the House of Deputies have done. The Chamber in fact, thanks to a decisive action of the 5 Star Movement, has taken a step forward. This is a potentially and very important step forward, as it states that it wants to make a tax incentive system structural and to do so by the end of this year. We in the 5 Star Movement, which in this last month we met the social partners concerned daily, will be careful to ensure that this is actually the case. Let me, however, deeply regret the fact that, during the meetings we held as the 5 Star Movement with the above mentioned social partners (industrialists, craftsmen, trade unions, banks, consumers), we received numerous constant complaints and protests from these, who said that they were too little listened to by politics: I repeat, too little listened. In fact, the social partners have reiterated to us that only during the election campaign political actors seek communication and support from the social partners, except then drastically decrease the quantity and quality of relations with them during the parliamentary term. Well, we in the 5 Star Movement are and want to continue to proceed in a different way, and we will continue to deal daily with businesses, consumers, the banking world and trade unions, to define together the best policy for economic and social recovery. We will therefore ensure that the promises are properly kept and we will try to fill the gaps since this decree has at least two rather important ones: the first is that there is no clear provision that makes a default bank support for those who want to use this tax deduction instrument. It seems even superfluous to remember that no idea is good if there is no financial resources to proceed. At the moment, many citizens are in serious difficulty with current expenditure; let alone how they can face extraordinary expenses of some magnitude without adequate financial support. It is therefore necessary for policy to agree with the banking system in order to establish a convention which will allow as easily and automatically as possible access to a loan at preferential rates for individuals who wish to carry out an energy efficiency or anti-seismic intervention. This is in fact convenient for everyone: to the banks, because they will certainly have their share of profit, as is right; to the private, because it will be able to recover with the savings that the intervention of efficiency will obtain him over time; to the entire economic system, because it develops production, commerce and relative services. In this field of reasoning we also hope that the banking world will be able to seize the enormous opportunities that derive from the presence of all those agencies and companies that are involved in designing and implementing energy efficiency projects without direct disbursement by the customer, since they are paid by savings made in bills. Also in this case the 5 Star Movement has already moved to start a active and constant dialogue with the banking world, and will continue to do so by controlling it and involving it in the dialogue with all the other social partners involved. The second shortcoming is the excessive dilution over the time of the recovery period of the investment carried out, i.e. in practice the fact that it takes ten years to recover, by means of the tax credit mechanism on its tax return, the amount of the concession granted. Here too, the very recent confrontation with the social partners has confirmed what should be a short and obvious consideration, namely that many citizens and companies prefer to agree on an immediate discount and on the fact that the work is in black (repeat, in black: let's not hide behind a fig leaf, please), with the consequent damage to the collective economic and fiscal system, rather than having to wait for such a long - too long - time to recover the investment. Even in this case, therefore, the 5 Star Movement will strive to change the situation; we hope that the other political actors will help us when we discuss how to make this incentive structural and give the possibility to those who made the investment to recover it fiscally with the times that are most appropriate to him. This decree is therefore a small step forward and can become a decent step forward if the stabilisation promises are kept; however, it is not enough to release us from the energy slavery to which we are, despite our being subjected. In fact, we are still at the mercy of fossil fuels - oil, gas, coal - and we therefore hope that there will soon be a policy change in relation to the production of electricity from renewable sources. To those who still persist in supporting the argument of the excessive cost of renewable sources, I provide a single figure to cut the bull's head: Germany - on whose seriousness it seems to me that cannot be discussed - calculated in 40 billion euros per year the cost of environmental and health externalities due to the production of electricity from fossil sources. Every year Germany pays EUR 40 billion per year in the form of general taxation and therefore not directly within the electricity bill, but this clearly clarifies how fossil sources are anti-economic. Therefore, ours is not an attitude of environmental extremism, but on the contrary it is a mere profit account. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Energy oligopoly means, moreover, having few producers and relatively little labour employed; vice versa, distributed and diffused production in thousands of small plants involves technological development and development of its induced with orders of magnitude of staff potentially employed tens of times higher. Here too, therefore, we are talking about job creation and we are not making speeches from environmental Taliban. In Italy we have a huge and dramatic problem of lack of work. Energy efficiency and renewable sources represent a great opportunity to create many thousands of new jobs: Confindustria, CGIL, CISL and UIL have calculated in 1.6 million the jobs that we can create until 2020. The 5 Star Movement, therefore, will continue to engage and involve all the associations of entrepreneurs that - as I have already pointed out - are unanimous in approving this vision for our future. Therefore, on behalf of the M5S Group, despite the reservations expressed above, I voted in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u83	CARRARO (PdL). Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, I am voting in favour of the PDL Group on this measure. However, I must express to the Government - represented here by the Undersecretary Vicars, whom I thank for having followed the examination of the measure here in the Senate both at first reading and now - the regret that the Ministry of Economy has not paid sufficient attention to the intense work carried out, in the Commission and in the Chamber, by majority and opposition, by the rapporteurs and the Presidents of the Commission, to make some changes. The majority had to accept some of the government's nos on the basis of the principle that the best is an enemy of good and that one had to be realistic as there were no financial resources. But then, in the House of Deputies, some of the requests which had been made very forcefully in this branch of Parliament and which we, through majority discipline, had agreed not to support with the vote, were accepted. I think more attention from the Ministry of Economy would have bought time. I do not make it a problem of corporateism of the Senate or the House, but I make it a problem of rationalization of the works: already sixty days are few for a decree; if you underestimate some arguments, then realize that they were valid ten days later, frankly it makes you uncomfortable. All the more so since with this ping-pong they have determined themselves - as the Senator De Petris has rightly pointed out - also of the errors, because frankly to force a market of the lease that is already in difficulty to attach also the certificate of energetic performance seems a rather irrational thing. An agenda has been adopted; we sincerely hope, as the People of Freedom, that the measure that is now adopted unanimously will be published immediately in the Official Journal and that this will enable us to remedy in the decree that we should do what was objectively a mistake. Having made these considerations, which I do not in a polemical spirit, but precisely in function of a better relationship and greater efficiency for the future, I would like to stress with great satisfaction the sense of responsibility of the parties that do not belong to the majority, precisely noting that a partial but positive journey has been made anyway, and that a measure is approved today - I think definitively - that does good to the country both at environmental and economic level. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u86	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, first of all I would like to thank the two rapporteurs, the Presidents of the Commission and all the members of the Finance Committee and the Industry Commission for the speed and responsibility with which they have dealt with this measure at the third reading. We have already defined this last time, at first reading, as an important first step; the issues of energy efficiency and redevelopment of buildings, accompanied by fiscal measures in support, which have been further consolidated in the transition to the House, not only convince us, but confirm our forecasts and our positive judgment. This first intervention represents a significant stimulus to the economy, which will then have to find a stabilisation process through new interventions, in our opinion, within a strategic framework which, as the Government rightly pointed out, will have to be defined in the coming months, not only because of the resources needed to be allocated to it. I would also like to stress the fact that with this definitive reading two other measures that are contained in the measure are being dismissed by Parliament: I am referring to the resources for the integration fund by way of derogation, in order to which we will most probably need new interventions (I also want to take the opportunity - as President Letta has pointed out several times - to solicit the attention of the Government on the issue of exodus); then there is the issue of freezing the increase of a point of VAT, a very important issue. I said that some parts of the House that were being modified and supplemented were welcomed by us; in fact - as the Undersecretary himself said during his reply - they were highlighted and urged in the Senate debate, not only by the relevant parliamentary committees but also by the House. I believe that some aspects, such as interventions to promote water efficiency, which have been recalled by us through an agenda, or interventions on anti-seismic measures, which we hope will find future corrections and enlargements to include areas recently affected by seismic events, are certainly an important point. Finally, I also consider it significant that the House has met a request that in the Senate had found elements of strong solicitation, that is, the theme of the supplementary supports: because of the changes made, in fact, the annexes to the school aids and university books remain saved from the increase in VAT. For these reasons, of course, the Group of the Democratic Party will vote again in favour and hopes - precisely - that this first step will be significant, not only as a stimulus to the economy of our country, but also as a preliminary to more structural interventions in the field of energy efficiency and urban redevelopment, two points that we very dear. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u87	He asked the President of the Finance Committee Mauro Maria Marino to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u88	Madam President, Mr Sciascia and Mr Tomaselli, who I must say very carefully, have followed a measure of particular sensitivity and interest. I also thank the undersecretary Vicars who, both at first and at third reading, was close to us and allowed that positive intercourse. I would also like to thank the Offices for the work and support they have given us and - allow me, I close here - to the Commissions, because the real delicate passage is what took place yesterday in the Commissions gathered. I'm referring to what Senator Carraro and Senator Rossi said. This is a wish for those involved in institutional reforms to think about the perfect bicameralism. I think that the possibility of a second reading in the House of Members has allowed us to introduce some pressing news that had been requested in this House in relation to Rule 19 and that has allowed significant improvements to be made. Faced with this, things have happened like that relating to paragraph 3-bis of Article 6, which, in addition to the things that have been... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marino, I would ask you to be synthetic. MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). They have been an important and necessary novelty. Thanks go to the Commission because, in this sense, it has proved that it wants to work together for the common interest of the country and perhaps it has given a little luxury to these institutions, which are sometimes vile. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Sciascia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u91	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u92	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] TOCCI (PD). Madam President, my vote... Senator Tocci, you can report this to the secretary senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u95	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the situation which would arise as a result of Legislative Decree No 155 of 7 September 2012 concerning the closure of the Sanremo Court and its incorporation into the Imperia Court. In particular, there would be a loss of an important garrison of the territory which has taken place significant investigations into the activities of criminal organizations. In addition, the amalgamation would create discomfort for users and for legal practitioners in having to go to Imperia, which could not perform, like Sanremo, functions as a border court. Finally, the amalgamation and closure of the Sanremo court would not produce the desired saving of organizational resources, since the merging court should nevertheless structure spaces and offices to adapt the service, without considering the risks that the amalgamation would produce in terms of accumulation of work, especially cases still pending. Therefore, while I agree with the need for a more rational and efficient reorganisation of the justice system, I ask the Government to evaluate more carefully every single situation that would result from the new judicial geography. [[Senator Caleo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u98	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask the House to pay attention. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Actually, I wanted to speak at the beginning of the session to ask Senator D'Onghia for clarification, which I see is coming out...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u99	Yes, but there is no debate at the end of the session, Senator Lucidi. You do your surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u100	LUCIDES (M5S). Can I do that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes. LUCIDES (M5S). This morning, in an explanation of vote, Senator D'Onghia said that someone in this House is talking about fairy tales and about 1,600 deaths in the city of Taranto. Then he compared this situation to companies, indeed to one in particular in Bangladesh that in one day caused 1,300 deaths. Now, without wishing to judge on the substance the intervention, which I think is inaccurate, I would like to go into this company, because the figure is very serious: it would be necessary to submit, at least, a question to know the details. In addition, I would like to point out that at the beginning of the parliamentary term we received a very interesting brochure, that someone probably forgot, from the title "Maps for (re) connecting to the future" of Save the children, within which there is a procedure that must follow the children of Taranto, in particular those of the Tamburi district; I quote just one step: When they come home after playing outdoors, it's always a good idea to take a shower and wash your clothes. I therefore wonder whether, before passing a decree-law such as this morning, it would not have been good to carry out a very serious examination, given the scope of the subject. Especially we in the 5 Star Movement believe that Bangladesh, India or such geographical situations are not so different from each other. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u101	The sitting of tomorrow will no longer take place as all the items scheduled for the current week have been exhausted or postponed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u102	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-87.ana.u103	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday, August 5, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.33 a.m.).
