ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 17 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 813-B, which was first approved by the Senate and the House of Deputies. I would remind you that the general debate ended at the sitting on 16 October. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the long general debate that took place last week, the multiplicity of arguments put forward by colleagues, the strong, sometimes radical, criticisms that have been addressed to the text and more generally to the reform process and the disagreements expressed in this House lead to the need for a response that takes into account the importance of these critical remarks and also takes into account a reading of the text which, in my opinion, requires a very strong return to the facts, being the force of the facts the guide to which we must look. The general discussion that has taken place deserves - as I said - a timely response. I would like to start with the first and most radical criticism that has certainly been made of the constitutional law, but more generally on the path of reforms that have already been discussed several times in this House. The criticism is exquisitely political and is the one that invests the same legitimacy as the Parliament, the House and the Senate. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, either release the hemicycle or suspend the session. That goes for everyone. FINDING, rapporteur. Thank you, President. I said: the first and most radical criticism is that which invests the same legitimacy as Parliament in facing a path of constitutional reform that is perceived as improper compared to an elected Parliament with a law that is supposed to be unconstitutional. Obviously, I don't need to talk about this. I, too, believe that the electoral law on the basis of which the Chambers were elected and established presents very strong criticalities, which are certainly worthy of a constitutional censorship, but I believe that the argument is unusable, and for many reasons. First of all, so that the Chambers, even if elected on the basis of that law, are legitimate, and every day we prove it: we should otherwise believe that each of our acts is spoiled by disability. I must admit, however, that the fervour, the ardour and the passion with which some Members have supported this thesis, probably bears witness, in a more solar way than any other demonstration, that this Parliament has in itself all the strength, the will and the determination to influence the legislative process and contribute to enriching the country with new constitutional reforms. It is therefore a subject that is certainly evocative from a political point of view, but at the same time it cannot have any relevance with regard to our work. Another subject that my fellow Members have used very much is that of a sort of demotion of Parliament, which would happen if this constitutional law were finally passed and finally adopted this path in partial, timely, circumscribed, occasional reform of Article 138. This is frankly an objection to which I do not think I should spend much time. On the contrary, it seems to me that, even with regard to the initial idea announced by President Letta here during the programmatic declarations during the first vote of confidence, we are today faced with an exquisitely parliamentary body, the Parliamentary Committee, made up of 42 Members ( MPs and senators), which celebrates Parliament's power in tackling reforms. As you will recall, the initial hypothesis was that of a Convention, that is, a body made up of "lay people" and parliamentarians. That objection, even so authoritatively represented by President Letta here, has been abandoned, and today the Committee - this is also a profound difference from the first proposition that it thought that that Convention should act with the drafting powers - in the referee carries out the investigation. I was saying, a committee made up of deputies and senators. Some Members have noted that Article 1 (2) concerning the composition of the Committee is particularly obscure. I would like to invite those who have made the observation to reread that paragraph on the basis of the following considerations. We had two needs (the proposer obviously had them, in this case the Government, but the Commission had them, and also the Assembly during the discussion that accompanied both the House and the Senate with the first reading of this text). The first requirement was that the Committee should be constituted in such a way as to sterilize the majority prize, which the House saw composing that branch of Parliament on the basis of a 55% majority attributed to the PD-SEL coalition. It is obvious that if we had to set up the Committee not only in the presence of a numerical disproportion between the House and the Senate, with 630 Members facing 315 senators, but also with a composition of the House greatly altered by the majority prize, we would have constituted a Committee not really representative of the political forces, and not really representative of the two branches of Parliament. It is a particularly delicate profile, however, if we are concerned about the fact that among the reforms there is the abolition of the perfect bicameralism, and we would therefore have faced the pre-constitution of a majority, so to speak, potentially hostile to the maintenance of the Senate or to a construction of the Senate that would preserve its authority and functions even if changed, but important in the institutional framework that we go to draw. I therefore believe that the choice made under constitutional law is a guarantee choice for all political forces, and also for the representation of the two branches of Parliament. In this respect, I would ask my colleagues to remedy that remark. I am not going to dwell on the question that the parliamentary committee would take over Parliament, because frankly I do not fully understand it, in the sense that the parliamentary committee is given the task of investigating it. The Chambers, the Assemblies remain supreme in the examination of the text because - I repeat - we act in the referent. And I would like to say more: the choice of the House's Rules of Procedure as the authorising officer for our work seems to me to be even more guaranteeing than the possible adoption of the Senate Rules of Procedure, and it will allow an examination of the texts in this House in which the sovereignty of this House will have every way to expand. I do not want to refer to too authoritative precedents, but I would like to point out that this Parliamentary Committee basically has the same powers as the Commission of the Seventy-five at the time of the Constitution. Just as I would like to say that it is improper to say that we are doing for the first time a tear from Article 138 of the Constitution: normally, whenever we are engaged in a constitutional reform (the Bicameral, the De Mita-Iotti Commission) has given rise to an investigative body that was anything but the Chamber and Senate Commissions. Today, I would say, the more we had to do so in order to correct those disproportionality and therefore those defects of guarantee against some political forces that would derive from entrusting exclusively to the Commissions the work of inquiry. I would also like to point out - and I think it is right to point this out, because it is right that all Members should be aware of this - that there has been a great deal of care in the drafting of the text, in ensuring that the work is publicised, which is ensured in the greatest possible expansion of the forms of advertising known, and even beyond. In fact, I recall that at the suggestion of the 5 Star Movement Group, also for the parliamentary phase, and not only for that investigation, as the Minister recalled last time, an online platform has been activated that allows an exchange of opinions and continuous information between parliamentarians who want to engage with this, first and foremost the members of the Committee, and the citizens. I would also like to remind you that the vote has been chosen must always take place in the form of a clear vote. It seems to me that the comments relating to the definition of matters covered by the Committee seem to me to be disintegrated from the text. Just to be very clear, because this has been an indictment point (I would call it that) in many speeches by colleagues, the subject of the judiciary and jurisdiction is excluded from the text. I repeat: it is excluded from the text. We only examine the issues that go under the definition - probably a little rough, so much so that we have specified in the text the number of titles to be more precise - of the form of state, of the form of government and of the relations between the State and the self-government, starting with the Regions. There is one point that needs to be unraveled, and on which I would like to be very clear, because I still hear and hear echoes in the discussion of some misunderstanding and misunderstanding: the choice made was to give rise to the approval of individual texts governing homogeneous matters, and therefore a text that probably concerns the reduction of the number of parliamentarians and bicameralism, one that concerns the form of government and one that concerns the form of State. I want to say this quite clearly, in order to eliminate any misunderstanding, because this has been essential care since the first drafting of the constitutional law by the Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Why? Because we introduce, by strengthening Rule 138, not impoverishing it, the possibility of a referendum at the end of the reform process even if the House approves the text by a two-thirds majority. I say this to all my fellow Members who recalled the 2006 referendum: if the 2005 reform had been approved by a two-thirds majority it could not have been submitted to a referendum and the celebration of the citizens' power to repeal a constitutional rule approved by Parliament could not have taken place. Today we have individual texts that can be submitted to referendums even if Parliament has adopted them by a two-thirds majority. Why individual texts? For two essential reasons: the first is that in order to guarantee the full and complete expression of the popular will they must be individual texts. Each of us recalls that in the 2006 referendum a reform was rejected which also had in itself shared parts, for example the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, precisely because it was a single text and, therefore, the dissent on a part of that text overwhelmed also constitutional reforms that were considered positively by a very large parliamentary majority and citizens. So, I repeat, individual texts to ensure that the citizen can genuinely express his opinion on that text. (9:51 p.m.) (Finocchiaro, rapporteur) But also for another reason: we have come from thirty years of failures, so dividing the reforms into individual texts gives us the additional guarantee, compared to our will to reform, that if one of the three issues that will be examined will become a conflicting issue, this will not stop the path of the other reforms. I insist on this point because the risk of having a single text I still feel it circular, and I think it is good to wipe this topic out of the table. I say more: the choice to divide into individual texts, of course, has not only been provided for by the draft law presented by the Government, not only has it been the subject of further study by Minister Quagliariello every time he has come to Parliament, not only has it been a debated and commonly accepted point in the Commission, but it is also a textual forecast, because it is obvious that the individual texts must be, for this reason - as the law says - autonomous and coherent in themselves. What does it mean to be consistent? It means that each text must have its own internal coherence and must be the subject of careful drafting in order to be able to fit into the puzzle of the overall reforms, safeguarding that constitutional system and that delicate system of checks and balances that characterizes our Constitution. On this point - and I would add another point - the establishment of the Commission of Wise Men, of the Government's advisory body, has taken a great deal of attention. I myself set the floor for the Commission to begin with on this issue. Therefore, I think I can fully reassure my fellow Members: the process of reform will see the production of more texts. Moreover, it is enough to read the rules concerning the examination in this House and in the Committee to realize that everything is being studied so that we can approve, and separately, texts each of which is homogeneous and coherent and - I would say - self-sufficient. There is one subject that has been further used, which concerns the terms in the text. Let us be clear: the terms are not peremptive. There is no sanction for non-compliance with the deadline. The reference to a scan responds to an exquisitely political need, which is to give itself a time for reforms, also because - I must not remind anyone - both the President of the Council Letta and the President of the Republic Napolitano have linked their permanence in the functions to the fact that the constituent path is made, and within defined times. There is one point that is considered important. Frankly, I do not see the importance, but I have a duty to resign it to the House anyway. It concerns the fact that the interval between the first and second resolutions is not three months as provided for in Article 138, but forty-five days. Frankly, colleagues, I do not know what to say about this subject. I think it is absolutely appropriate, after thirty years of failings and failed reforms, to give a certain pace - pardon me, perhaps inadequate - to our work. On the other hand, I do not want to make a mistake, but the Commission of the Seventy-five has worked in ten months, as Mr Quagliariello is now confirming to me. With regard to the referendum, I do not want to insist that we have already talked about it. In order to strengthen today's forecast of Article 138, it will also be possible to propose referendums if the text is adopted by a two-thirds majority of the members of the two branches of Parliament. In this context, I see such an explicit celebration of the citizen's power to call for a referendum and propose the repeal of individual parts of the reforms, which I frankly believe should no longer be uttered in this regard. A further question has been raised by my fellow Members, and that is the last one I would like to comment on. We are not reforming Article 138 from here to eternity. The amendment serves this reform. Let me say that this Parliament needs it. If it were not for this Parliament, there would probably have been no reason to deviate from Article 138. We could only have affected the referendum rule, but we would not have set up the Chamber and Senate Parliamentary Committee. On the contrary, we had to do so for a reason of guarantee (again, for a matter of guarantee), because otherwise the Commission of the House and that of the Senate would have compositions not exquisitely representative of the strength of the individual parliamentary groups. Let me give you an example. The PDL Group (but I could take the example of others, starting with the 5 Star Movement Group) has seven members in the Senate's Constitutional Affairs Committee and seven members in the Chamber's Constitutional Affairs Committee. It is therefore a disproportion in the representation of the political forces that has led us along the lines of guaranteeing the dignity of each political force in relation to their exquisite representation proportional to the establishment of the Joint Committee. I hope that I have solved the doubts or concerns that my fellow Members have expressed. On one last point, I would like to say that this is not an amendment for the eternity of Article 138. There is a clause that we could call fading. I refer to Article 7, which states that by the publication of the law or constitutional and ordinary laws approved or in the event of the dissolution of one or both chambers, the Committee shall cease its duties. I repeat: it shall cease its duties. Once again, I believe that keeping to the facts, to a reading I hope flat of this law - we have tried to cure also its immediate comprehension and interpretation - makes more of many arguments, which are certainly legitimate, and to some extent - let me define them in this way - noble, because they reveal an attachment to the Constitution and to the important constitutional values: value, wealth, not annoyance, awkward. I believe, however, that every effort has been made to ensure that this constitutional law is itself and for itself a moment of celebration of those constitutional values (that of the participation and equal dignity of each political force, the role and centrality of Parliament and the power of citizens towards the laws approved by Parliament), it itself is a conclamation of these values and constitutional principles. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and LAG groups and Senator Pagano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u10	I call the Minister for Constitutional Reform, Senator Quagliariello.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u11	Madam President, Senators, first of all I would like to express my unofficial thanks to all those who took part in a long and tiring debate, which I followed in a somewhat critical state of health and which I subsequently re-read in order to prepare this reply. I must thank all my fellow Members because, although the debate has been a long one, the arguments are not the ones used when obstructing. On the contrary, all the speeches, or a large part of them, had their content and provided information and indications that I kept in mind in replying. A series of criticisms, particularly made by colleagues of the 5 Star Movement but not only, concern the issue of the guarantees of Article 138. In this reply, for short, I will support three quotations from people who do not have my ideas either from a political point of view or from a purely constitutional point of view. I believe, in fact, that for reasons of method when dealing with this subject, we must first read and meditate on the words and arguments of our opponents and, of course, learn from them and, where possible, comfort. I quote what one of the major Italian constitutionalists, Professor Massimo Luciani, wrote a few months ago about Article 138: Two are the fundamental principles which Article 138 contains and which cannot be violated: the protection of minorities and the attribution of the last word to the people in the constitutional referendum. The draft law so much criticized not only respects, but leads to coherent development of those two principles: on the one hand it protects minorities more, because it constitutes a parliamentary committee composed in proportion not only of the seats, but of the votes obtained; on the other hand, it allows the constitutional referendum even if the two-thirds majority has reached or exceeded in the second resolution. The guarantee of the popular vote, therefore, of a vote that serves precisely to increase the possibilities for defending the Constitution, is even exalted. That is the only reason why I spoke about strengthening the guarantees provided for in Article 138 of this law. A lot has already said President Finocchiaro, I risk repeating myself, but I still want to carry out my task to the full. As regards the composition of the Committee and respect for minorities, the situation that has arisen made this intervention necessary. I am not among those who demonized the current electoral law, as well as no electoral law, considering that an electoral law is an instrument and refers to a historical context and an institutional context; but it is a fact that the current voting system was born when in Italy there was a tendency bipolarism, with two poles tending to exceed the threshold of 45 percent, so the majority prize awarded to the House historically has never been higher than 10 percent. This time, due to the upheavals in the electoral corps that evidently rewarded a movement that first appeared in the elections and that saw the emergence of a fourth polarity, although less supported, we were faced with the fact that the two historical coalitions, the center-left coalition and the center-right coalition, both came under 30% of the votes. In fact it was a sign of crisis, on which both coalitions reflected (and, if they did not, they would do well to do so). This result has led the majority prize to take on a much wider dimension: from 29 percent of the votes to 55 percent of the seats. In addition, against a difference of only 90,000 votes between the first and second coalitions, in terms of parliamentary representation, it paid three times the number of seats in the House to the first coalition compared to the second. Therefore, at the moment when we are talking not about a constituent power but about constitutional changes, a rebalancing was absolutely necessary. Just as, since this government has a majority of more than two thirds on paper, I believe it was necessary to guarantee that the referendum could be held even if the reform, on the contrary, the reforms that will be approved should reach and exceed two thirds of the votes of the Members. Why am I talking about reform and not reform? Again, I support a quotation from Valerio Onida, who is also one of the most important Italian constitutionalists, already President of the Constitutional Court, who cannot be suspected of having sympathy for my political side or for the way in which I interpret constitutional thinking. Valerio Onida says: The fundamental thing, in my opinion, is that we do not make a single law of all-inclusive constitutional revision, but many separate laws object by object. In the case of a single reform, in fact, the risk is that citizens will be faced with a "take or leave", the choice between no reform and a reform that may contain positive aspects and other negative aspects. What do we mean? That we will certainly proceed to the reform of bicameralism, to the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, to the reform of Title V and to the reform of the form of government; but there will be no blackmail of the kind for the citizen: if you want the reduction of parliamentarians you must vote for this form of government too. I want to be completely explicit, and I am addressing in particular my colleagues from SEL who have come back with insistence on this matter. It seems to me that the words of President Finocchiaro go in the same direction. Another critical issue concerns the timing and very existence of the Committee. Allow me, again, to quote a not long one: "All parties, for a long time, unanimously support the need for institutional reforms. Now it is no longer allowed to linger on delicacies even elegant but equally inconclusive. Hence, a respectful but firm invitation to Parliament to proceed with the appointment of a bicameral Commission with the task of a comprehensive and organic revision of the Constitutional Charter in the articulation of the various institutions. It is not President Letta who speaks; it is not even Minister Quagliariello and not even President Finocchiaro. The quotation is even from 28 May 1992 and comes from the address of the inauguration in front of the Parliament of President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro. Now, it seems to me that no one in this House can believe that Scalfaro was not a guardian of the Constitution and also of its letter and its purity; therefore, the awareness of the importance of those reforms was already present in 1992. I come to another theme. Here I take back the criticisms made by my colleague Mazzoni, also expressed in a previous speech by Senator Minzolini. I thank both of you, and especially my colleague Mr Mazzoni, for these criticisms complement an understanding of the importance of the reforms. It is about the fact that, looking at the history of Italy from 1992 onwards, just when Oscar Luigi Scalfaro spoke those words, it is not possible to believe that our institutions can take the right path without there being also a reform of justice. This seems to me to be the core of Senator Mazzoni's arguments. I would like to have as clear a word on this as what President Finocchiaro has said. Justice and guarantees do not fall within the chapters on which the Committee will have to intervene; the Parliamentary Committee will be able to intervene on these two chapters if this is necessary in the light of the changes proposed in the other Titles of the Constitution: I refer, for example, to the necessary links between the form of government and the provisions of Title IV and Title VI. This solution has been achieved here, in the Senate, and in this regard I would like to thank the Leaders in the first Commission, Senator Bruno and Senator Lo Moro, as well as President Finocchiaro, who have brought a balance in the text. However, I would like to add a consideration without evading the point. I am of the same idea as Mr Mazzoni, that justice is the other side of the coin. We, however, have already done a constitutional reform, that of Article 111, which has yet to be implemented. If I take the document of the committee of experts set up by President Napolitano last April and if I consider that commission in its bipartisan nature even with the participation of a representative very close to the judiciary and the judiciary as president of the School of the judiciary - I am referring to Professor Onida - I read that among the reforms that can and should be carried out in this field there are (I quote only some and not all): limits to creative jurisprudence; measures for the effectiveness of guarantees in the criminal proceedings; stricter rules for the pre-conditions of initiation and conclusion of investigations and for the duration of preliminary investigations; reform of the interceptions (no to the "draw fishing" and limits to the disclosure); more strict judicial control over protective measures, especially when they affect personal freedoms; unappellability of the judgments of absolution for non-high charges; deflative measures of the criminal process; measures against the overcrowding prison; stricter rules of ethics for relations between the magistrates and the means of communication; stricter rules for the out-of-function of the magistrates; stricter limits to the candidabilities of the judiciary; subtracting the currents of the administrative structures of the judiciary. I'm gonna stop right here. These are just some of the reforms envisaged in that document. I think it is a catalogue for which it would be necessary not to have a parliamentary term, but much more. In most, I would say almost all, such reforms can be carried out without recourse to Article 138 and therefore through ordinary law. I therefore want to communicate to the senators that precisely for this reason, with my colleague Chancellors we are establishing a table that leads to a conference that looks together at the theme of the reform of the State and that of the reform of the justice and that engages the Government on some proposals present in the document of the political-institutional commission instituted by President Napolitano, that the same Head of State recalled at the end of his message to the Chambers of a few weeks ago. I come to a more substantial aspect, taken up in some speeches by my colleagues from the 5 Star Movement and also my colleagues from SEL. It has been said that, in reality, this attempt to reform would not be the country's priority in such a serious economic crisis. With an effective joke, in one of these sessions, Mr Crimi said: but what do we feed our fellow citizens? Institutional reforms at the end of the month? Mr Crimi has thus highlighted the need to take account first of all of the problems associated with a dramatic economic crisis. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let me be quite clear about this. I believe that at a time like this there are some things that can certainly be done by intervening in the short term, but I also believe that to get the country out of the crisis you absolutely need those reforms that have been expected for over thirty years. The fact of having a perfect bicameralism, with Chamber and Senate doing the same things and a shuttle system like what we know, is something now intolerable whose economic cost cannot be underestimated. It is no coincidence that our country, in order to produce a law, takes us a time exactly twice the average time of all the other countries of Europe. Of course, time, in such a situation, is money. And again. How much does it cost this country to have reformed - I am referring to the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution of 2001 - that has granted the Regions in some cases more than federal states like Germany and Canada have done, without having posed the problem of having a clearing house where regional and national legislators can meet in order not to argue? How much did it cost, in terms of sovereignty, that the Constitutional Court decided very often and not this Parliament? How much did it cost, in economic terms, that the citizen or entrepreneur did not know what law to refer to, sometimes for a year and sometimes for an even greater time, and preferred to relocate their investment, rather than to face a situation where there was no legal certainty? How much has it cost the lack of legal certainty that the crisis in our institutions has caused? How much does it cost that the average stability of governments is eighteen months, while in the other countries in competition with us there is an average stability of four, and often even five years? Look, I think all this is very much felt by the citizens. We made a mistake in the last parliamentary term and paid for it: to believe that these reforms, including that of the electoral law, were suprastructural reforms and that the citizens thought of something else. I believe that we have paid for it, because the citizens have seen our inertia and our inability to reform a form of political selfishness, a willingness not to question and to continue talking about things without leading them to port. A sign of change must be given. In this respect, I believe that it is certainly not an exhaustive signal, but of interest, that the public consultation on reforms has seen the closure of 203,061 questionnaires validated with the collaboration of the Istat (Mr President, I will of course send you the complete data as soon as possible; this is the first time I give this data, because it was sent to me this morning). It is therefore the most involved public consultation - I say this to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - not only in Italy, but in Europe. There is one last aspect on which I would like to have equally clear words, because it has been a theme mentioned: the relationship between electoral law and constitutional reform. I would first of all like to address my colleagues at SEL who have called into question the fact that there is in some way an organic relationship between the form of government and electoral law. It is certainly not a relationship of cause and effect, but it is equally certain that there is a relationship. In this case, I could support the classics: I could quote Bagehot, to say how the English voting system constitutes part of the form of government of that country; or Duverger, who explains why the double-round system of college is a part of the form of semi-presidency government in the absence of which the semi-presidency system does not work. But beyond that, I think I must refer first of all to the Italian story. And precisely the Italian story teaches us how in the last 25 years the thought of being able to change our institutional structure by referring only to electoral law has been an illusion: an illusion that has actually turned against those who have nourished it. It is no coincidence that those who have cultivated it - on the right, on the left and in the center - have always obtained the victories of Pirro who at that point saw themselves defeated and, at the end, the country. I believe that this is the reason why we must hope not only to reform the electoral law this time, but also to reform the electoral law which is somehow coordinated with an organic reform of our institutions. If we have this objective in mind, if there is a strong signal from this House today in this respect, then the necessary corrections to the current electoral law, of which everyone notices not only constitutional deviations but also opposition to common sense, will lose some of their drama. Let's face it: the debate becomes dramatic if we think we are going to vote in three or four months' time with this electoral law; but if we are going to vote in three or four months' time then it means that we are not going to reform them again. Instead, I believe that our objective this time must be something else. I remember that since June the government has highlighted the need for a safety net. And probably, if he had been heard then, other passages of this legislature could also have been different. A government, in fact, must stand as long as the country serves; it must not stand because an electoral law is lacking. However, I would like to add another point to this. That of correcting the current electoral law strictly parliamentary matter. The government exhorts political forces, and it does so forcefully and gives all the support. But if this time too should fail, I believe it is an obligation for the Government to intervene, with all caution, in this matter and to ensure that it is not the Constitutional Court, with all due respect to a guarantee institution, to modify our electoral law. In this case it would be another Head of State for politics, another Head of State for Parliament, and we cannot bear that. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and GAL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u12	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u15	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, Minister, Senators, Senators, after the precise, precise and in-depth speech by the rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro, after the intervention, clarifying in some respects, but also very politically polite by Minister Quagliariello regarding the broad debate that has taken place in this House, it is easy for me to preannunciate the vote in favour of the Great Autonomous Groups and Freedoms Group in relation to the draft constitutional law under discussion this morning. I very much appreciated Mr Quagliariello's kindness, because he wanted to give a political reading to the days of debate. I believe that its political reading has also extended to the overall behaviour of oppositions on this issue. (Some senators hold back from the government to speak with Minister Quagliariello.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u16	I would like to ask those Members who are sitting in the government's benches not to create difficulties for those who speak, and I would like to call on the whole of this House to do the same. (Minister Quagliariello moves away from the benches of the Government with some senators).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u17	President, I need the Minister in this House to move forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u18	Minister Quagliariello, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u19	I said that we wanted to give an absolutely political reading of the attitude we have taken (in the other branch of Parliament we have also seen striking forms of demonstrations on the roofs, and whatever else), and we want to stick to this reading, even though there might be a suspicion that there is a part of this Parliament that perhaps loves to keep the status quo, that an idea of the institutions as absolutely firm, absolutely equal; a part that loves to see the institutions interpret perhaps the role of a country for old people, that remains stale, and perhaps on this foundation of electoral fortunes. I hope that is not the case. Today we come to a reading that is given by the Government: perhaps the positions that have been taken are more daughters of a parliamentary attitude, of those who are majority and of those who are not, but from tomorrow - from when the reforms can really get started with the constitution of the Committee, assisted by the excellent work done by the Government in preparation, a Committee that has already worked from the technical point of view (and we know that a Constitution to be effective must be alive: that is, it must know how to interpret what is in terms of tension, organization in the country, and this has also been thought of with online consultations) - it will be different. Therefore, listening to what comes directly from the citizens, thanks to modern communication systems and the Internet, through the work done by highly trained technicians, who have given us and will give us the support of constitutional engineering necessary to carry out a reform, through a Committee of 42 truly representative of all political forces and of both branches of Parliament, we have a historic opportunity: we have a good opportunity to reform our Constitution. How many times have we said that ordinary legislation on regions - ours is a sick, abnormal regionalism - needs to be corrected? How many times has the ordinary law intervened to change a fact that is not provided for in the current Constitution? Since the birth of these blessed (to say the least) regions we have had an increase in public spending dizzying, we have had no correspondence between spending and services provided to citizens. How many times have we said that we need to review this country's structure? Today we have the opportunity and I hope that all the parliamentary groups, with a majority and a minority, will participate in Parliament with their own ideas and also with their own diversity, which will also see transversalism between positions of those who are the majority today and those who are the minority, and vice versa, because we must have the objective of the best possible, of being able to give constitutional status to what the country feels as urgent today. It is true, Minister Quagliariello: perhaps it is not cash money those of the norms of constitutional modification, but certainly the organization of one country, even in international assizes, at times when international economies are decided, is a fundamental part of the credibility of that country and its system; it is a fundamental part of the conviction that one country, compared to another, is more called to investment or growth. We must now give direct answers to the citizens. I want to tell you a case that is happening in the Region of Sicily, where he dreamed of wanting to anticipate a closure of the Provinces, without being able to offer alternative solutions: we have the families of the disabled who do not know who to turn to; it is a moment of confusion. You, Minister, first mentioned Professor Onida, whom I would also like to mention in this respect: the organisation of the institutions in relation to the needs of the citizens. It is a fundamental aspect: a State responds to the people and to the sovereign citizen; its needs and the organization of the State to respond to its needs are our imperative rule. We now have the opportunity, and that is why we think we can join you enthusiastically. It is an enthusiasm with which we want to infect all the sectors of this House, because we are in the place where we can assert these needs. I know that my idea of organizing the territory is different from that expressed on several occasions by the Minister, or by other Members of Parliament, but that is the beauty of participation and of the place of democracy. Therefore, after this moment of opposition, which we wanted to define as a political one, let us arm ourselves with the weapons of our ideas and our relations with the territory, because we cannot fail this appointment with history. Today we are experiencing the possibility of an appointment that cannot fail, and I say this not only as a member of a Group bound by a majority bond to the Government that is proposing this path: I say it as a citizen and as a parliamentarians, and I say it with an extraordinary conviction, because there are moral duties that must be placed before political and party duties. There are times when history calls us to take very important and courageous attitudes. I believe, Mr President, that this is one of those moments when a democracy and a state are questioning what they want to do for the future and for the new generations and what they want to give in terms of perspective and dream. If we do not build today the utopia of the transformation of a system that really has become for old people, that really has become without perspective, we will pass as those who have lost the greatest opportunity that there could be. So a majority of broad understandings can only be the birthplace of these great prospects. And I must say to you, Minister, that this must be the case: the prospects for broad understanding should above all be these - and I say this, perhaps, knowing that we support a rather unclear thesis - much more important than the finances we will be able to make, much more important than the changes or connections with Europe and the Mediterranean and much more important than what we will be able to be as protagonists. This cradle of constitutional reform will be a measure of the importance of having had the courage to make broad arrangements. Because it took courage. To those who speak of the fear of Parliament to return to the vote, to those who speak of calculations, more or less direct or indirect, of individuals or parliamentary groups, today we have the opportunity to respond in a high and high policy, saying that we will be the Parliament that will give the future of our nation tools, weapons, capacity for participation and a new protagonism in the history of Europe and the world: an important history in the past of Italy, but that we imagine important also in the future of our country. [[Applause from the GAL Group and Senator Naccarato. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u22	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we share with you the view that the subject of institutional reforms is the central point of this parliamentary term: political forces have a responsibility to be protagonists or to suffer the consequences of a further and ever more serious inability to identify and support a reformist process. The establishment of a parliamentary committee for constitutional and electoral reforms will be by way of derogation from the procedures laid down in Article 138 of the Constitution, in order to obtain the conclusion of the parliamentary examination of the draft reform laws within 18 months of the start of their discussion. Joining an extraordinary, one-off procedure in relation to Article 138 has in itself the desire, if not the obligation, to identify reform guidelines which are shared and not expressed by a majority on the basis of opposing sides. Two aspects, in our opinion, contribute to supporting this perspective: the guarantee, in conjunction with the derogation procedures, of submitting the draft Constitutional Review Act to one or more confirmed referendums, beyond the majority that will approve the reforms, and therefore in fact mandatory; the composition of the bicameral committee is certainly representative of all parliamentary groups and, as we request, also ensures the presence of linguistic minorities as well as of the Autonomous Group. The essential points of the future reform must, in our opinion, be the following: the significant reduction in the number of parliamentarians; the overcoming of bicameralism with its implications for the form of government, the transformation of the Senate into the Chamber of Regions; the strengthening of the centrality of Parliament. If it is evident the need to overcome equal bicameralism with the identification of the relationship of single-cameral trust with the Government, this does not exhaust the discourse because, as Senator Palermo also said in his speech, the choice of differentiated bicameralism will impose a fundamental decision on the nature of the Senate: whether to be elective, and therefore with the prevalence of the political criterion on the function of representation of regional and territorial autonomy or whether to be territorial and, consequently, non-elective. It is a choice that we will be called to make. Personally I am for the model of the Bundesrat, therefore for a true and direct representation of the autonomy, which could not be guaranteed by direct election, even if it is contemporaneously with the regional elections of the senators. The introduction of single-chamber trust will simplify the decision-making process, whether one opts for a rationalization of the existing form of parliamentary government or if one thinks of a Prime Minister's parliamentary government, or a semi-presidency model. From the perspective of the special and regional autonomy we believe that the revision of the form of State will in no case lead to a new form of centralism, because on the contrary the reform of Title V will have to see the Federal plant strengthened. There is no need for new state supremacy clauses in relation to the Regions, because constitutional jurisprudence has already largely safeguarded unitary interests, unfortunately also reducing some regional competences such as those on cross-cutting matters and the extension, in my opinion, often excessive of the concept of civil order. It is certainly true that the current system of repartition between State, regional and special self-government has led to a strong constitutional dispute with the self-government, but in agreement with the current Government we intend to deal with and reduce this impressive litigation. This does not mean that the issue of competing competences can be dealt with unilaterally. If it is assumed that competing competences, for example for large transport networks, must return exclusively to the State, at the same time it is necessary to strengthen and not eliminate the competences of the Regions, for example in the field of land management and landscape protection. As Mr Laniece also said, the assumption that a state safeguard clause on regional legislative competences should be included is a matter of great concern to the special autonomy, given their prerogatives protected by the Constitution and by international agreements, because we do not believe that such a general clause, a clause in our opinion of rubber, which, due to its indeterminate nature, will again be a source of constitutional conflicts, could be the way to reduce overlaps of competences. In this context, and in the anticipation of a revision of the form of State and therefore of Title V, it is good to understand that the safeguarding of the competences and powers of the Special Regions and the Autonomous Provinces is a matter that we consider vitally important. We will make every effort to ensure that a reform inspired by a kind of neocentralism is not introduced. In any case, we will propose a similar safeguard clause, as laid down at the time in Article 10 of Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001, in order to prevent the powers exercised by the Special Regions from being undermined by this reform since 1948. We share, as Mr Bressa said to the House, that the task of reform is to unite state and autonomy in a relationship in which the competences of each one do not diminish but strengthen the potential of the other. We therefore hope that, once the parliamentary process has been completed and the Committee has been set up, the reform process will proceed as a matter of urgency. For the reasons I have expressed, we reiterate the support of the Group for the PSI-MAIE Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Tonini and Verducci. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u25	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, I have here on my desk some of the many volumes of the work of the constituent Assembly. I wanted to bring them today, not to pay tribute to the Minister, whom I imagine you know, but because we would not want our posterity, in the face of that in-depth work, to consult a few pages, a small Bignami of the constitutional revision. I also think it is necessary to clarify, deny some propaganda operations that are under way and restore some truths. First of all, Minister, and I would also like to address President Finocchiaro, you are well aware, given that he has just given us other arguments, that for history, culture and training we do not belong to the so-called well-otherism, that is to say to the current thinking that we do not have to discuss constitutional reforms because the priorities are others. We have too much respect for the Constitution, especially for the first part of it, not to understand how closely the issues are connected. We have raised two questions, Minister, on which I would like to return: firstly, we are radically calling into question the choice made to derogate from Article 138 of the Constitution and not just because - and here it must not seem rhetorical - we believe, like most constitutionalists, that this is a guarantee and security article, which provides for a procedure that shelters the Constitution from fictitious and momentary majorities, but also because we think that we have chosen a way of revision, by way of derogation from Article 138, which is crooked and, in my opinion, does not even leave much hope for the achievement of certain objectives. And to justify the derogation from Article 138 of the Constitution, the question of respect for minorities was raised, stating that it derogates from Article 138 of the Constitution in order to guarantee minorities more effectively. This argument is not at all on its feet, dear Minister and dear President Finocchiaro, not least because there was no order for anyone to set up a Committee. You said that we must derogate from Article 138 of the Constitution for the respect of minorities, because this Parliament is the child of an electoral biased law. And here comes a question that we have put obsessively in this House publicly, to you personally, Minister, and to the President-in-Office of the Council. I am referring to the question, for us as a priority and as an absolute one, of changing the electoral law and repealing the 'porcellum'. Now, because we have not been able to do this and once again we are saying that this Parliament is the son of that electoral law, we are approaching (because we are approaching) - and we are pointing our finger at the Constitution and saying that we must change our Charter - to modify the procedure provided for in Article 138. This argument, that is, the fact that we always indicate in the amendment of the Constitution the solution to the serious problems that exist in the crisis of representation and in the crisis of politics, is the other issue that we have already posed at the first reading of the measure and that we now propose again at second reading. We think it is a sort of efficient shortcut (and the topic is taken up today also by Rodotà on the Republic) compared to the big issues we are facing. There is a crisis of politics, of the party system, of representation, of the relationship between citizens and institutions, a bad policy that has led today to the current situation. Then, the compulsive obsession that attacks the political class of this country on constitutional reforms stems from the fact that, in reality, you want to carry out yourself as a ruling class, you want to carry out the bad politics by indicating the cause of all the evils in the Constitution. We don't stand on this: you have to know! This is a total mystification operation. Like another mystification operation that is taking place these days (and which you, Minister, have reported here), it is to argue that, on the one hand, there are conservatives who do not want to change anything and, on the other, innovators. Or, since we are defending the Constitution and the guarantee provided by Article 138 of the Charter, we are the ones who absolutely do not want to reduce the number of Members and adopt a series of reforms. You know perfectly well, Minister, that this is not true! When we said not to touch Article 138, we indicated a different path, which was that of some shared reforms, but not abandoning the guarantee of Article 138, but identifying exactly what the reforms were to be done. It would have been a greater chance for this Parliament. On the other hand, it was intended to work quickly and to contract the time; it was seen in the debate last week, Minister: an empty Chamber. I know I forced her to stay in the Chamber and I regret it, since she was ill, but we were here alone until late in the evening to discuss it. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] Why? For an efficient compulsion. But do you think that this is the best way to take seriously the reforms of the Constitution? The other issue, Minister, which we have contested and will be contesting is the extent and scope of the various provisions of Part II of the Constitution that you intend to touch on, especially as regards the form of government. Here too, let me say. What is semi-presidentialism that so much is evoked or something else Italian that I can see in the works and discussions of the various essays that you have given us? What is semi-presidency or the strengthening of the obsessive powers of the Government around a Premier, if not an implicit admission of impotence of politics, which is only able to coagulate consent; but not on itself or on a government program or on cohesive majorities: it tries to rely on perhaps charismatic figures (again), without understanding what problems we face today, linked to the dangers of populism. Also in this case semi-presidency returns - a strengthening of the powers of the Premier, a Government of the Premier - as, in fact, an implicit (in fact, explicit) admission of impotence by politics. In addition, the wide list of all the parts and titles that must be modified in your opinion, as well as the procedure chosen, what makes us think? They lead us to think that in reality it is almost configuring - and it can only be so, precisely because of the choices made by you - a sort of siege to Part I of the Constitution: yes, a real siege. You smile, Minister, but there's nothing to smile about. You know perfectly well - for this reason you should reread all the work of the Constituent - how closely Part I is connected with some of the provisions of Part II. President, our constituent Fathers and Mothers have provided for Article 138, because they have rightly sensed the possibility of amendments. I too could talk here about how many updates of rights, for example, enshrined in Part I should be made and the new rights that should be constitutionalised. But what you are doing, even the phrases you have chosen and included in the text of the bill show us that there is a real siege to Part I of the Constitution. I come at this point to the majority of two thirds, because in this case it has something to do with it. We appeal to all our fellow senators, the same appeal that is being made to you, among other things, in these days addressing so many personalities of the civil society of our country: do not allow the majority of two thirds to be reached on this bill, precisely because those two thirds were born from a proportional electoral law. Do not allow a two-thirds majority to be reached in order to give the possibility that the unholy choice to derogate from Article 138 of the Constitution may be subject to a referendum. Look, it is serious that at the time of the election there is no oath on our Constitution. But when we were elected and proclaimed, we actually swore on the Constitution and the defence of the Constitution. That is why we are asking you - and this is our final appeal - to prevent a two-thirds majority from being reached and to ensure that this unholy procedure of derogation from Article 138 can be submitted to a referendum on behalf of the defence of our Constitution. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-GAP and M5S Groups. The Senators of the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAP Group stand up and show the Constitution.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u28	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Minister, I have read and listened carefully to the report of the Commission of Wise Men for Reforms, in view of the mess you are combining as a Government. When I finished, though, my arms fell off, and something else. I'm deeply disappointed and now I'll explain why. I too had the honour of joining a group of constitutional reform essays in 2003, but now I have to highlight a number of differences: we were four and not 44 (I don't know if the 35+7+2 got it from the gold zecchino and from the 44 cats in a row for three with the rest of two of them). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; we worked for a week and not for several months, as you did; we did it in a mountain hut and not in a five-star hotel, like you; each of us, unlike you, paid his own expenses, while his wise men, went, as they say, to safety. Perhaps the four essays of Cadore did not have such high-sounding academic titles, but after a week they came down from the mountains with a real articulate that changed more than 50 articles of the Constitutional Charter. A structure that, I would like to stress and recall, already provided for the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the end of the perfect bicameralism, the Federal Senate, the modification of the form of government and the Constitutional Court, the rationalization of Title V and the devolution. A text that has four times obtained the positive vote by Parliament and rejected only by a referendum promoted, for mere electoral and propaganda purposes, by the same political forces that today require not reforms in the broad sense, but precisely those same reforms, because the various Chiti or Violante drafts are identical to that reform that we had approved. Dear comrades, everything you ask today could have already been in the Constitution since 2006 if you had placed the interests of the country before those of party. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But let us return to us, Minister Quagliariello: I don't see here articulates, I see only a papocchio and it certainly didn't seem the case to bring up neither Machiavelli nor even Tito Livio, as you did in the premise. The report you have presented would not even be suitable for making the illustrative report of a draft constitutional law. It reminds me more of the manual of the sorcerer apprentice: wings of bat, tails of toad, top of turnip, dog hair, salt and pepper enough. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But did you read it again, Minister, the report? You once had to say that we have to decide whether to take the road to Paris rather than to Berlin, Madrid or London (if you remember, it was an audition). The road indicated by the essays, on the other hand, seems to say: you can go to the right, or to the left, but also to the top, or to the bottom and, as if that were not enough, there are then the posts of Onida or the reserves of Tabellini, Ainis, Olivetti, Caravita, Cheli, Dogliani, that would indicate completely different roads. So much for the unanimity you mentioned in the preamble! Dear Minister, your report, the work of the sages and everything else teach us only one thing: how not to make constitutional reforms and how to cancel that little federalism present in the Constitution today. Except for the fact that you have not included the return to the monarchy, the return to centralism is all there is: this is the first time that anyone even discusses the Regions with a special statute. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We have definitely started off on the wrong foot, and this false departure is not only yours, but also my own, because, mistakenly, I believed President Letta's words, and his own, when he decided to set up a parliamentary committee for constitutional reforms. I thought it was the right tool to do reforms well and in certain times. On the other hand, the months pass and, if it is okay, the Committee will start working not until January next year. Today we must all acknowledge that we have made a mistake. If we had started immediately to amend the Constitution through the ordinary path of Article 138, limiting ourselves to the cut in the number of parliamentarians and the abolition of the perfect bicameralism, in December we would have brought home the first part of the reform and we could finally have written the resulting electoral law. Having not done so, and having taken the Committee's path, we have found ourselves in a dead end: still no constitutional change and, in the current Constitution, the impossibility of writing a real electoral law. In the Commission we are working on a transitional electoral law, which allows us to vote in the event of early parliamentary elections on the slope of the Constitutional Court's ruling, and you yourself called for its approval in at least one branch of Parliament by 3 December, the day set for the judgment of the Council. Personally - but as I think several Presidents emeritus of the Council - I believe that the appeal will be deemed inadmissible precisely because of the manner in which it was presented. But even admitted and not allowed to be declared admissible, how could the Court intervene? First hypothesis: to declare the current unconstitutional law tout court, but this would mean leaving the country without a mandatory law such as the electoral law, since the Mattarellum could not return to life automatically. But more, if the law were declared unconstitutional, paradoxically the parliaments of the last three legislatures would become illegitimate, the laws that the same have approved and the same President of the Republic elected twice by the children of the current Second hypothesis: it could declare unconstitutional only the prize of majority without threshold, but in doing so we would find a law exquisitely proportional, which would be for politics only and certainly not for the Constitutional Court to decide, and the return to the First Republic. Not only that: if the prize were unconstitutional, then it would be unconstitutional also that provided by the law for municipalities under the 15,000 inhabitants, which provides, for the vast majority of Italian municipalities, that with one vote in addition the mayor will be elected with a predetermined majority, precisely by virtue of the majority prize that has never been contested until today. I doubt anyone would consider the blocked lists to be unconstitutional because, if they were, they would also be those of Mattarellum and the many regional electoral laws. It is clear that electoral law is not done with the Constitutional Court, but with political will. Today there is this political will, at least in words and in the Commission. The first things I demanded there were, firstly, simulations, i.e. the results that would have been produced by applying the various electoral laws of the world (when applicable) to the results of the February 2013 general elections. She has been given the Study Service and I advise all her colleagues to go and read them, because they give surprising results. Secondly, I have asked for a series of hearings of non-party constitutionalists, i.e. the Presidents-in-Office of the Council, and electoral experts. Both simulations (all simulations) and hearings have shown that there is no electoral law in force to guarantee the governability of the country. (Minister Quagliariello converses with Senator Formigoni). I see a meeting at the government desks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Formigoni, please let the Minister listen. Please, Senator Calderoli. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). There are no stories: as long as the active electorate is different between the House and the Senate and as long as the Senate expresses the confidence, governability and stability of the Government cannot be realized except by chance, with good peace also those, including Mayor Renzi, who proposes us the double turn or the ballot. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] They are fanfaluche, because the ballot (or whatever you want to call it) should be done both in the Chamber and in the Senate, so we could have that the Chamber wins A and the Senate wins B or, worse still, that the Chamber go to the ballot A and B and the Senate go C and D. Do you tell me how the majority government is achieved? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Why did I call the current law "porcata"? My guys, seeing what's being proposed, I have to say that you can even do much worse than the piggy, if we go on like this! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Today the electoral law is not for the attention of this House, but what I have said so far must serve to give an address and a mandate to the Committee on Reforms: if it is true, as you say, that this parliamentary term is destined to last not only a few months, we must not start by rewriting the whole Constitution in a single stroke, but proceed step by step. The first of these steps must be limited to the cut of the MPs, the end of the perfect bicameralism and the federal Senate, which could be approved by the spring of 2014. The second step is the transitional electoral law, to be approved by summer 2014 as a simple parachute. The third step, to be carried out by the end of 2014, concerns the changes of the rest of the Constitution, including, among other things, the modification of the form of government, not excluding semi-presidency, rationalization and implementation of Title V (not cancellation, as you would like), including Articles 116, 117 and 119 that today exist only on paper, claiming also one thing: the most developed regions have the sacrosanct right to see themselves attributed all the functions and resources that today are attributed to the Regions with special statute. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Only after these three steps can we finally write the definitive and consequent electoral law, able to guarantee the governability and stability of the government, the democratic representativeness and the possibility of choice by the elector and the elected. This whole journey could be completed by the spring of 2015. Otherwise, there will be no electoral law and, worse still, no reform and, like it or not, we will return to vote with the "porcellum". The League, however, believes in reforms and despite the delays it will vote in favour of the establishment of the Reform Committee. But let's not fool ourselves anymore: either you start and work seriously or go home, and immediately, because you have already done too much damage, not only to the country, but to the same parties that constitute this great coalition, which is so great that it is determining the disintegration of the parties that constitute it. It is no coincidence that only now a majority group leader has entered the Chamber, and then another one; until now, the meetings are shining with the presence of the opposition group leaders and not with a majority. Minister Quagliariello, they left her a little alone! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Despite everything, however, we will vote and I hope that there will be those 214 votes that are necessary in the vote that we are preparing to make, because otherwise I greet you Committee and greet you for the reforms! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u31	MARAN (SPI). Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we, all of us, never thought that it was enough to reform the Constitution to solve our serious problems. I find it difficult, however, to understand the attitude of those who, like my colleagues in the M5S Group, have spoken of authoritarian threats in place or take out the P2 whenever the issue of constitutional reform is put on the agenda so as to give the Italian governments the same institutional force that governments have in all other European democracies. I find it reductive to say that the current crisis concerns only the reliability of the political class and not the constitutional and electoral rules. The weakness of our institutions is not alien to the difficulties of the country. It is not by chance that incisive reform processes have long affected all the major European democracies. In Germany the Constitution has been amended more than 50 times since 1949; the incisive reform of German federalism, approved in 2006 and aimed at improving the decision-making capacity of the Federation and the Lander, has modified 25 articles of the fundamental law. In 2008, France approved the most important draft reform of the French Constitution of 1958, a project that has a significant impact on the dynamics of the powers and counterpowers of the Fifth Republic; it did so after President Sarkozy set up a Committee for Reflection and Proposal on the Modernisation and Rebalancing of the Institutions of the Fifth French Republic, chaired by Balladur, whose conclusions were almost fully transposed into the Constitutional Reform. In short, it was a committee of experts, as did the United Kingdom, Germany and the United States. In Spain, too, the reform of the Constitution (which will be thirty-five years old in December and is the longest in Spanish history) is on the agenda, because the territorial consensus has cracked and Spanish democracy cannot be understood without the process of political decentralisation that constitutes the autonomous state. I quote El País: the best defense of the Constitution is the reform of the Constitution. The fact is that we share the same problems: the difference lies in our inconclusion, it is in our impotence to reform. The difference is thirty years of unfulfilled proposals and achievements in the wrong direction. It would suffice to recall the failure to abolish the Provinces. It would suffice to recall that the territorial dimension of our municipalities is still that of the Middle Ages: the distance that could be walked on the roads of then in the hours of light. In Denmark, the municipalities were reduced from 1,388 to 275, in Belgium from more than 2,500 to less than 600, in the United Kingdom from 1,830 local authorities to 486, and so in Germany. And I could go on. We are the only ones in Europe to increase local and provincial bodies rather than reduce them. I therefore find it incomprehensible that institutional conservatism has been paralysing any attempt at reform for years. And it is too easy, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, to stand up to ultimate defenders of constitutional promises and, in the meantime, do nothing waiting for better times. It is too easy to throw suspicions and denigrate, without saying anything about how to get out of the painful state of our political-institutional system. The presence of two chambers invested with the same powers of political direction and legislative powers is only the most blatant contradiction, which has no equal in other parliamentary democracies; a wreck of when each of the groups feared on 18 April of the other, not to mention that our Republic has already profoundly changed, often unintentionally and unexpectedly and today is unfinished, in half, to the point that the set of corrections aimed at the "sgangherata" reform of Title V launched in 2001 (as Professor Barbera called it) reflects very widespread expectations among scholars and a significant part of public opinion. Moreover, for a long time the premiership has become the real and fundamental stake, to the point that it has been made of the direct (or as if direct) popular investiture the pivot around which the system rotates, without however introducing any serious counterweight. Not by chance among the wise men, on the point, there have been different sensibilities and two different wishes: there are those who trust that the parties are able to overcome the current crisis and to return to link representation and government in a framework that preserves the elements of flexibility of the parliamentary form; instead, there are those who assume that the problems can be solved by the creation of institutions with direct popular investiture, also as a presupposition of the regeneration of the party system. Of course, we will discuss this, but it has been 20 years since the citizens have answered the question behind the 1993 referendum unequivocally: is it the parties or the citizens who choose the government? And does that answer the parties or the citizens? This is a simple simple question, which we will meet again when we discuss electoral law. Let's face it: since 1993 we have become accustomed to directly electing mayors, provincial presidents and (later) regional presidents, and I could continue. In 2001 the names of Rotelli and Berlusconi were indicated on the ballot. With the primary, the center-left now chooses the candidates for the monocratic positions and with the primary, the PD has even chosen the national secretary and regional secretaries. Now Enrico Letta is proposing - rightly - the direct election of the President of the European Commission and, later, of the President of the United States of Europe. Even President Napolitano, in the conversation with Federico Rampini contained in his most recent book "La via maestra" (The Highway), has hypothesized a single president chosen by universal suffrage among the candidates presented by the great families of the parties (page 60). Let me understand: we can directly choose the government in municipalities, provinces and regions and we would like to choose the government of Europe, but we cannot choose the national government. Why? Why is Berlusconi here? But politics will not return to normal with Berlusconi's exit. What has happened in these twenty years is not an antihistorical parenthesis, an invasion of the Hyksos. In 1994 there was no vulnus waiting to be healed, but cultural hierarchies lasted half a century that can no longer be restored. In his own way, Berlusconi (and first the North League) is the expression of a great revolution begun in the last century, which De Marchi called "the revolt of the producers": the uprising of the productive classes (employees, entrepreneurs, farmers, professionals, traders) against the scam and exploitation of a political-burocratic class - I use the words of De Marchi - who, selling himself as a champion of the general interest, takes possession of an increasingly large part of their income, managing to live and enrich themselves in idleness, security and privilege, behind those who work in the fatigue and insecurity typical of every market activity. This uprising, this anti-burocratic and anti-statist revolt, which now the crisis has aggravated, is the red thread that connects the current populist push, the reagan revolt in America, the thatcherian revolt in Great Britain, the anti-socialist one in Germany, Belgium, Scandinavia and France and even, without prejudice to the obvious specificities, the anti-communist one in the East. With this thing, in the version of our house, we have to deal with it. As Max Gallo maliciously wrote, Italy is the metaphor of Europe, that is, the society in which everything manifests itself in a caricatureal, exaggerated and excessive way, but it is not an anomaly. Its events - our events - are a chapter in European history of these years and to realize it, just take a look at what happens in one of the most civilized countries in the world, such as Holland. And whoever wants to lead the country has no other chance than to try to conquer those parts of the electorate that will perhaps now become available with the change of the relations of force in the center-right, making their own demands, making their own, that is, those questions and those aspirations on the tax, on the justice and the economic freedoms that they express and that Berlusconi has left unsatisfied. This implies, on the one hand, an evolution of political cultures, a decisive change of mentality, a cultural turning point in economic policy that favours competitiveness, the fight against waste, the reduction of an unbearable taxation; it implies what we of Civic Choice have defined the European reform of Italy. And on the other hand, it requires reform of the institutions that favours it. Civic choice will support this effort, the effort to get to the step that Karl Popper says marks liberal democratic modernity, that is to change not the answer, but the question, and wonder not who should govern, but how it is possible to build an institutional mechanism that allows to peacefully replace the rulers when they are considered unfit. In short, a mechanism to prevent bad and incompetent rulers from doing too much harm. We must not fear change. What we need to fear is yet another failure. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u34	TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I listened to what you said and on one point - and I think it is lucky - I agreed. You, forcefully and vehemently, asked how much the reform of Title V of 2001 has cost and how much it has cost businesses and citizens. But he did not ask himself a question; I ask him: but who did that reform? Who wrote it? Who approved it, who promulgated it? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, it was you. It's always you, gentlemen. Yeah, it's you. In ten years we will have someone else who will tell us: but who did the reform of 2014? Who approved it? How much did it cost? It won't be you because, if all goes well, you'll all be home. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You then cited a well-known constitutionalist as an example. I now read you some names: Stefano Rodotà, Gustavo Zagrebelsky, Alessandro Pace, Ferdinando Imposimato. I don't know if these names tell you anything, but they're not exponents of the Five Star Movement. These are distinguished lawyers of our nation, lawyers all at present united by a firm conviction: this constitutional law proposed and pushed by the majority is, to say the least, a disaster. Once, gentlemen, the saying was common: made the law, found the deception. In this you have been innovative because we have now: made the deception, found the law, and moreover it is also a constitutional law. Do you remember what the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Constitution says? Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. This Parliament - we hope - should represent the people. Senators of the majority, right now you're wondering who you're representing? And I tell my PD colleagues in particular. Do you know who you're representing? Because with this derogation from the last bulwark of the Constitution you show yourself for what you are: you are simply a political class that, despite being aware of the obvious hostility of the population to this change and its consequences, stubbornly perseveres to want to approve it, in order only to self-legitimize itself. And it doesn't matter that it's a change in all probability of itself unconstitutional: moreover, the Constitution that you want at all costs to devastate you already violate it every day and the only voice to remind you, gentlemen, is that of the 5 Star Movement, despite you continue to say that it is not proactive. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me give you just a few examples: Articles 1, 3, 32 and 34, today's most violated articles of our Constitution, are violated both in the method and in the substance by governments that have been pursuing policies contrary to the good of citizens for twenty years. Article 1: do we have one of the highest unemployment rates in Europe and what have you done with the last Executives to make the right to work effective? The reform, or rather the counter-reform Fornero and its much praised flexibility? On the contrary, unemployment continues to grow at exponential levels and at the bottom of the crisis tunnel there is not even a glimmer of recovery. And what should a government do that really wants to promote work? Simple: should introduce citizenship income [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We can't hear about it. You don't want to talk about it. Yet these are real, effective proposals. In this way you can guarantee the unemployed, victims of your crisis, an immediate temporary take-up, a dignified take-up, without being forced to miserably haggle down their sacred rights, in order to survive in some way and guarantee a future for their children. Perhaps some enlightened technicians - we still have a few pieces of the civic list - could explain to us how to reconcile the principles of Article 1 and Article 4 with the amendment of Article 81, imposed on us by the European Union: that notorious principle of budgetary balance (you all speak of it, it is not good for anyone) that prohibits public debt, except for exceptional cases, preventing us from making those policies necessary to support employment in times of crisis. Keynes must be turning into the grave. Article 32 health; Article 34:............................................................. Skillful and deserving, even if they lack the means, have the right to reach the highest degrees of study. The Republic shall give effect to this right by means of grants, grants to families and other provisions (...)................................................................................................................ [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Comparing these rules with the reality we see in our eyes, it seems superfluous to me to point out that they are perhaps the two most violated articles of our entire Constitutional Charter. Violated by linear cuts at school, university, research, health care: linear cuts started with Tremonti and Berlusconi and continued with Monti. Every time, the exact same music: there is no cover. Simply put, there's no money. Yet, there seems to be a lot of cash for pharaonic and useless projects such as the TAV or highways to and from nothing, but with eight lanes, to finance wars disguised as peace operations in Serbia, Afghanistan and Iraq. And here we forget another article, Article 11 of the Constitution, which states that "Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes." In short, there is money for iron, cement and bombs; for social, for culture, for our true industry, there are never. We tell you in your face, gentlemen: the cuts made to these parts of democracy - the law of stability has arrived today - the cuts made to health, research and education are anti-democratic and anti-institutional cuts: this is the real anti-political one. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They are sacrifices that affect only the weakest, the most disadvantaged people, increasing the scissors between rich and poor (probably you are on a side of the scissors that does not concern us) [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; increase the scissors between submerged and saved; destroy the very presuppositions of the principle of equality of Article 3 of the Constitution, and without them remains only an empty shell. And how do all these miraculous reforms happen most of the time, except through the industrial production of decree-laws? Article 77 refers to the appeal of decree-laws only in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. The Constitutional Court - which you yourself mentioned - has repeated this several times, but the governments that have alternated so far, including the present, have remained deaf to your calls, because there is always some disaster to avoid. After all, we are in perpetual emergency, aren't we? So, let's talk about justice, gentlemen. Let's remember the Schifani praise and the Alfano praise; or rather, the Berlusconi praise 1 and 2. The substance does not change: they are laws passed quickly and fury, even though the walls knew that the Constitutional Court would then rightly cancel them: the one with a 2004 judgment, which underlined its contrast with six articles of the Constitution (a record); the other with a subsequent 2009 judgment. So, after having worked for constitutional reforms the ordinary Constitutional Affairs Commissions, now we're pulling one, in itself unconstitutional, to pass unconstitutional laws even faster. Gentlemen, never put an end to shame, believe me! And it will be a pity that even this time, as in the past, President Napolitano will probably forget the faculty that grants him Article 74. Far be it from me to claim that there is an obligation on the part of the President to send back to the sender clearly unjust and unconstitutional laws, unheard of filth to oblige the majority at least to the shame of a new approval. It is regrettable, however, that he often did not have this sensitivity, this desire to oppose by sending a very strong message of censure, an unequivocal signal to the public, and instead signed without putting too many problems. Moreover, the constitutionally singular events have not been lacking in recent times: have we forgotten the unworthy theater to which we have been assisted by some parliamentary colleagues of the PdL, who have occupied a court, openly violating the fundamental separation of powers, guarantee of every democracy since the French Revolution, declaring, in fact, war on the judiciary? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Is this not a very dangerous interference with the provisions of Article 101 of the Constitution, i.e. that the judges are subject only to the law of the Constitution, but to Article 104, that is, that the judiciary is an autonomous and independent order from any other power? Let us go to the point that it is Article 138 of the Constitution and the games with which you want to bypass it, giving a special Commission of wise people to the political forces the task of indicating constitutional innovations and an ad hoc Committee the power to draw up the text of amendments that will then be approved by the Members, without any possibility of making amendments. And just to change, no one, except us, talks about introducing the referendum without quorum and the obligation to discuss the laws of popular initiative. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In a rigid constitution like ours, the procedure for constitutional revision is only the one provided for in the Constitution itself. A constitutional law is either in accordance with Article 138, or it is distorted; there are no terms or subterfuges. In fact, we give the right name to what this Government would like to make pass in silence, before our eyes and the international community: welcome to Italy, the country of unconstitutional reforms. But the worst part of the story is that we barely know how, but we certainly do not know what you want to change in Part II of the Constitution: all by deceiving the population, flagging to the four winds that this is the way to resolve the economic crisis that afflicts the country. That's not true, Minister. That's not the way. It is false, because this crisis comes only with true reforms, reducing unreasonable and indefensible privileges, containing the waste of public administration. But this doesn't even fit through the brain antechamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u35	Senator Taverna, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u36	TAVERNA (M5S). Yes, Madam President, I'm almost done. I agree with what the representative of the SEL Group has already said: 23 of you are enough to give back to the people their sovereignty, to have it expressed in a referendum on this derogation that you would like to put in the dark, secretly. I ask you not as a senator, but as a citizen, I ask you with the voice of the squares that you do not listen to: do not allow this Government, born of an electoral deception, to take away the desire to look at you in the mirror in the morning. Yes, because those who lightly overturn Part II of the Constitution risk denying also Part I and the fundamental principles of freedom and human dignity. This derogation from reform is frightening to us citizens. But, as Thomas Jefferson said a few centuries ago, it is not the peoples who have to be afraid of their governments, but the governments that must be afraid of their own peoples. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u37	I address, on behalf of the Senate, a greeting to the students of the middle school of Montelibretti, in the province of Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u40	BRUNO (PdL). Madam President, I believe that today's debate should be confined to a few lines, that is all because we have already dealt with the same text. There has been a vote in favour in this House and we have noted positively that the House of Deputies has also, without amendment, approved the text establishing the Committee on Constitutional and Electoral Reforms. So I think we could just give our consent, as we have already done, with the same reasons. I would like to thank Mr Quagliarello and President Finocchiaro for having made a much better look at the issues and represented the state of the art after the July vote we had in this House. In fact, we have acquired the documentation that the wise men have produced, and I must say that the opinion that has been given and the work that has been offered to us will serve as a guide to the Committee of 42. Here too there are lights and shadows, because there is not one voice. On the other hand, it couldn't have been otherwise. Therefore, it is up to us, to politics, to give that blow of kidneys that will certainly allow us to choose which reforms are most suitable for the country in this historical and cultural moment. It is a job that we will certainly do and we want to do. I believe that this Parliament is truly motivated by the good will to come to the conclusion of a job. (at 11.30 a.m.) (Follow BRUNO) Clearly, the government must keep: this is the wish of the parties that today support this majority, and we, Senate and House, will do our part. Allow me, Minister Quagliarello: you, in your valuable exposition, said something that really made me jump when you spoke about the electoral law. I am not talking about what will take place after the structural change, but about what we are discussing and working out in the Senate's Constitutional Affairs Committee. You said something that I did not wish to hear, namely that if Parliament does not succeed, the Government will take charge of making a decree. I hope that this will not happen, because, if such a thing happens, I believe that we will not go to make any kind of modification, because the modification to get to a successful conclusion must necessarily be made, now, with the texts that we have, and I believe that there are all the prerequisites for achieving a text that includes those changes that the Constitutional Court has already pointed out. Both I and my colleague, Mrs Lo Moro, who is the co-rapporteur for this measure, are working and drafting a text which collects as much as possible the will of the vast majority of the political forces in the Commission. However, I do not agree with the fact that the Government can take responsibility for a decree: I believe that it is then Parliament that has to deal with and resolve the problem. It's a bit like a cat biting its tail. I believe that we must succeed at this stage, and I know that you, who are taking part in the work, will have recorded, as you said, that we will surely arrive at our destination. But the fact that I have said today in this House that the government could also think of a decree makes me think badly. Does the Minister know that there is some political force trying, as they say, to blow up the table? Perhaps there are some political figures among those who support this Government, who, by making requests for double-shift votes and preferably voting, play a role in ensuring that Parliament does not make any reform of the electoral law today? I believe that the Minister should be clearer on this point. If you know that there is, on any political side, the will not to continue the serious activity that is taking place during these hours in the Houses of Commissions, I think it is right that this House should be told. I too have recorded, during the debate on our measures, that there may be some runaway, and it is clear that a runaway can lead to nothing, but because I trust in the words spoken to me by President Finocchiaro and co-rapporteur Lo Moro, and I trust, I am convinced, also for the mandate we have received, that those adjustments that the Constitutional Court has highlighted are in a position to make them and offer them to the evaluation of this House. Only in these terms are we working. I therefore hope - and I take this opportunity to reiterate this - that we can offer a text as soon as possible: a text which does not talk about double-shifting or preferences, because it seems to me that none of the political forces referred to it in the debate on the measure. So if there's any political force that thinks otherwise, I think it's right and proper that I say it. If that is not the case, we risk moving forward and arriving at the fateful date of 3 December, when the Constitutional Court will have to assess the admissibility and perhaps also the merit of this law, with all the risks that this Parliament cannot take. For our part there will certainly be as soon as possible a text on which we must compare. I hope that the work that the government can do at this stage will keep in the perimeter the decisions we have to make. No further. Because at this stage we must only and exclusively amend a law that already exists and bring it back into the womb of constitutionality, taking into account the remarks that the Constitutional Court has already made on several occasions. I have had to make this point - and I am sorry if I took some time - because, as I said, we must not add anything to the statements we have already made and which we confirm in all their parts on the text that we are going to approve today. Our vote will therefore certainly be in favour, I hope with the majorities that the Constitution requires. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u43	TONINI (PD). Mr President, Minister, fellow senators, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will shortly renew its vote in favour of the proposed constitutional law for the establishment of the parliamentary committee for constitutional and electoral reforms in the second Senate resolution. He will do so with the serene conscience of responding in this way to a deep and now even ancient need of our country, in full respect of the letter and the spirit of our Constitutional Charter. In the course of this debate, the wonderful closing of Piero Calamandrei's speech to the students of Milan, on 26 January 1955, has been mentioned several times and quite appropriately: If you want to go on a pilgrimage to the place where our Constitution was born, go to the mountains where the partisans fell, to the prisons where they were imprisoned, to the fields where they were hanged. Wherever an Italian died to redeem freedom and dignity, go there, or young people, with thought, because there our Constitution was born. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] They are words of extraordinary strength and beauty. Because they remind us, as Calamandrei himself says in that same speech, that our Constitution is not a dead Charter, it is not, it would be said, a text that can be understood by abstracting it, uprooting it, tearing it away from the dramatic, mourning and luminous context that generated it. Ours is not a dead Charter, it is a living Constitution, because it participates in the life of the Italian people, its tragedies and its progress, its anguish and its hopes. Because it's an integral part of his story. And so he lives with it, he is born again and again, together with the generations that happen in our country. Ours, one might say, is a living Charter, precisely because it is not a perfect Charter, but a perfectable Charter. Indeed, democracy is like this: no democratic system is perfect. While it is characteristic of every democratic system, and only of every democratic system, it is its perfectibility, its ability to change, to learn from its own mistakes, to evolve with the people and in the conscience of the people. The constituent Fathers were fully aware of the perfectibility of the Constitution. There is an extraordinary document that brings this lucid awareness in a lively way: it is the long interview released in 1984, almost forty years old by the Constituent, by Giuseppe Dossetti and Giuseppe Lazzati, to two exceptional interviewers, Pietro Scoppola and Leopoldo Elia. "I am convinced" says Lazzati "that the message, perhaps urged, led by the group that was probably the most prepared, "that of the professors" has entered the Constitution: the first part, the principles, no doubt... It's just that even now it's meant to be a program for a government that wants to govern. It is in government practice that the Constitution did not enter: it remained in the drawer. Without saying that some of the things we are talking about today, we are in 1984 not for the first part, but for the parts that specifically concern the institutional structures and so on, had been proposed by us. We had made serious objections to bicameralism... but they did not pass. And a little further, here are the words of Dossetti, in full harmony with Lazzati: "It must be said that in the structural part the second Commission has failed." And again: "Yes, principles are fine, but instead we did not operate in the structural part, which was what it was, and of which we saw insufficient or problems". "What problems?" they ask him. Dossetti responds ready: "Bicameralism and excessive guaranteeing" regarding the form of government. But what was the cause of these excesses of guarantee - as they called them - that caused De Gasperi to discard any form of strong government, the presidentialism advocated by Calamandrei and even the chancellor? Dossetti answers: "Because you were still under the obsession of the transition to the majority of the Communist Party." And from Togliatti there was a speculative concern: "The two guarantees are combined - Dossetti explains - and produce the second part of the Constitution... both for the fear of the other." "It was the politicians - Lazzati confirms - who wanted this hyper-warrantism, rejecting the proposals of lawyers (such as Mortati, or Calamandrei) who wanted to strengthen the Executive." That, then, is the context that gave rise to the text, ladies and gentlemen. A dramatic context, in which the hopes raised by Liberation have mixed with the mistrusts, fears and fears brought by the incipient cold war. De Gasperi, Togliatti and the other political leaders of the newly formed Republic have created a Constitution that has guaranteed peaceful coexistence and managed the tremendous tensions of the opposition between the blocs. But at the price, a very high price, of the weakness of governments and ultimately of politics itself, in paradoxical contrast to the reformist ambitions of Part I of the Charter. This is our story, the story of a difficult democracy. It is a story, ours, that cannot be denied, removed, or cleared in a summary way. It must be hired, and together, dialectically, outdated. We have a duty to go further: aware of our past, but concerned about the future of our country. That is why today we must say that the Constitution must be implemented and that it must be reformed is to say the same thing. And you can't say one thing without the other. Only a wisely and courageously reformed Constitution, in what Dossetti and Lazzati call the structural part, can be implemented in that part of principles that still wait to be pulled out of the drawer, to become a program for a government that wants to govern. It has rightly been said, during this debate, that our Constitution is a rigid one, as regards the revision procedures. It's true, our constitution is a rigid one, thankfully. But ours, always says Calamandrei in the celebrated speech of Milan, is not a Constitution that has fixed a firm point, it is a Constitution that opens the way to the future. To open the way for the future to the Italian people and to do so in and through the Constitution: this is our task today. An arduous task and inescapable at the same time. All the more so in an international context - other colleagues have said - marked by the growing, widespread anxiety of all democratic systems, on both sides of the Atlantic, by the persistent delay in the completion of the democratic transition of the major emerging countries and by the worrying stalemate, while populisms proliferate, of the European Union's political integration process. The extensive and profound report of Minister Quagliariello, based on the great and fruitful work of the Commission of experts appointed by the Government, offered us a thread of Arianna, which can allow us not to lose sight of the direction, in the labyrinth of the many opposing theses. Both on the form of government, with preference for the Prime Minister's government, and on the electoral law consistent with this choice, the double turn of the list or national coalition, as well as on the overcoming of bicameralism and the related, drastic reduction of parliamentarians, as well as on the solidly autonomous and non-neoccentralistic revision of Title V, the Quagliariello report offers open indications, but for this reason no less strong and convincing. Indications that converge in the proposal, to which the Democratic Party is inclined, I would say for "chromosome information" of a renewed and reformed bipolarism, finally converging and constructive, based on the competition between government proposals, in a stronger and more incisive institutional framework, also because it is lighter and more discreet. These are indications that must now be translated into the proposal of one or, perhaps better, more articulated - as clarified in the debate - to be submitted as soon as possible to the parliamentary committee which, with today's vote, we are going to set up, and then to the examination of the parliamentary classrooms and to the final judgment of the sovereign people. It has been very controversial in this House, in the streets and in the media, against this derogation from the procedure provided for in Rule 138. To express reservations, concerns or even dissent about this choice - as I say to my colleagues in the opposition - is not only legitimate, but it can and certainly has been useful. I myself, in the Group, had expressed doubts and concerns as to whether we should take this path, provided - ladies and gentlemen - that the polemic does not cause us to lose the sense of the measure and the measure of the sense of what we are actually doing. "Jede drastische These ist falsch," Adorno said: "every dialectic forcing, every unilateral extremism ends up falsifying the thesis that one would like to support. So we cannot ignore some simple truths. Firstly, in a few moments we will be voting on a derogation and not an amendment to Article 138: a derogation as were the founding laws of the many Bicamerals which, unfortunately, have sought the narrow passage of the reform without success. So, nihil novum. Secondly, the derogation does not affect the essential guarantees of Article 138: not the head office, not the quorums, not the dual deliberation, nor the referendum. Thirdly, the derogation contains more elements for strengthening the guarantees of the rigidity of the Constitution than for mitigating elements. It is true: the referent phase is streamlined and the time between the two deliberations is reduced, but the majority award to the House is sterilized in the definition of the composition of the Committee; it is explicitly provided for the possibility of producing and approving several draft laws separately and it is already established that, whatever the quorum of the final approval, it is still possible to ask for confirmation of the popular vote. Mr President, Minister, fellow Senators, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the constitutional law in our examination and will make its most convinced and committed contribution, with an open mind and a spirit of cooperation, with all the forces represented in Parliament, to this new attempt to reform Part II of the Constitution, in the sole aim of making the complete implementation of Part I less difficult. We will work by gathering and making our own the exhortation, ancient and very modern, of the great Ambrose, to "Nova semper quaerere et parta guardare": to seek, to yearn for the new, change, the future, and to jealously and wisely guard how precious it has been delivered to us by history. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u45	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u46	Minzolini (PdL). Mr President, dear Minister, as you know, in the vote on the establishment of the Reform Committee, I abstained. At the time I motivated that decision by explaining that, with respect to the centrality of the crisis of the judicial system in the life of this country, the choice to characterize the reforming season with a downward compromise on the subject, agreeing not to even talk about it, did not convince me. What has happened in the following months is screaming - indeed screaming - with that downward compromise: the judicial removal of the centre-right leader from the parliamentary classrooms is being carried out - as you know. There is the proposal of the Head of State for an amnesty and an indult to solve the problem of crowding prisons: a problem that cannot fail to have its roots in the contradictions of our judicial system. We do not talk about the proliferation of cases of bad justice: one for all the story of the founder of Fastweb, held in prison with accusations that then turned out to be false; a story that is certainly not a nice business card for those who ask entrepreneurs and foreign groups to invest in our country. Well, a situation so rude this Government solves it with the promise that action will be taken in the future by ordinary law, so the Constitution will be reformed in all its parts, but the chapter justice will not be touched, the one that has influenced this country for twenty years. For this Government the balance between the powers of the State provided for in our Constitution, and which for twenty years has been called into question by the protagonism of a certain judiciary, is a problem of little account. Or rather, it will be resolved by ordinary law, forgetting that every time he has legislated on these subjects by ordinary way, a lawsuit was born on the constitutionality of this or that provision. In short, every effort ended with nothing de facto in front of the Council. The truth is that this political class demonstrates that it is unarmed with what every day proves to be the strong power, as Ostellan writes today on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), in that buzz created by the sclerosis of our system: the judiciary. And in this situation it does not seem to me a great idea not to reaffirm in any way the principle of the balance of powers in the reform of our Constitution. It is an idea which, in my humble opinion, is not dictated by political cunning, but by fear. It is not a feature of political action based on wisdom or prudence, as far as hypocrisy is concerned. It is in fact a sort of surrender. And this, I repeat, squeals, indeed squeals, especially with the nature of the government of which you are part. You see, I also think that there is a need for a Government of broad understanding, which lasts not until 2015, but also until 2018, provided that it deeply reformates the country. But such a government must have an ambitious agenda both on constitutional reforms, including justice, and on the economy, so that Italy can start again. If that is not the case, and it does not seem to me that it is at the moment, it risks doing more damage than anything else. We are faced with a great danger. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Minzolini. Minzolini (PdL). The technical government, which also made several reforms, although for me in many wrong cases, has already created a problem of considerable importance. If you're still talking about a technical government, you're gonna be lynched in the squares. Now if a government of broad understanding, the government that by itself should face the emergency, behaves as if it were an ordinary government, a government without an ambitious plan, unable to dictate a courageous economic line and to reform the country deeply... [[Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u47	Senator Minzolini, please conclude, otherwise you may speak more than President Bruno spoke in his explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u48	Minzolini (PdL). It would be proof that we have a policy with the tiny "p" that is not capable of making policies with the "p" capital; that we have set up a government of broad understanding to make small cabotage. In this way we would really open the way to the anti-politics that is already at the door. And since I have no desire to be an accomplice to such an epilogue and even for a minimum of consistency, I have decided to abstain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the full text of your speech so that it is annexed to today's shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u50	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u51	MINEO (PD). Mr President, Minister, Senators, it costs me a lot of effort and pain not being able to confirm the vote in favour of this measure at first reading, yet I do not think that the amendments to Article 138 are such as to represent a crowbar, a crowbar to break into the Constitution and I still acknowledge today the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it has done an excellent job, as Senator Finocchiaro said, and I also acknowledge that the essays of the Government (I have listened carefully to Mr Quagliariello's report) have worked well. But the point is another. In order to reform as important as that of the form of state and government, two conditions would be necessary: broad support in society and a common inspiration in Parliament. In society, colleagues, there is no such support. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]] In addition to the no of a political force (speaking of the 5 Star Movement) that was the surprise of the February elections, a movement of constitutionalists, trade unionists, voluntary associations was born, which is opposed to the amendment of the Constitution. And then there is also a right-wing position, you listened to it in the words of Senator Minzolini, who wants to reverse the order of priorities and introduce as central the change in the relationship between the judiciary and political power: this is the demand that is constantly being made of the right. But even more serious is the lack of common inspiration in this Parliament. We are talking about politics, ladies and gentlemen: since 1 August, when Senator Berlusconi was struck by a final judgment on tax fraud, what has begun seems to me to be an attack on the rule of law, with the request to overturn a final judgment. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] It is an attack on the same liberal nature as our democracy, with the claim that the judge cannot exercise legal control over a common citizen as on the elected people. With these quarters of the moon, which still led the PdL to threaten the Aventine yesterday because a good person and a political leader such as Rosy Bindi was appointed President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, there is no common inspiration to be able to lay hands on a fundamental reform of our Constitution. [[Protests from the PdL Group]] To start, then, the reformer would only mean to lie to the country, to tie the permanence of this Government and the lack of clarification among the political forces of majority to a reformer project that is already known today that it will not be carried to the end. [[Protests from the PdL Group. Recalls of the President]] I'm not willing to tell my constituents something I don't believe in anymore. So today, albeit with labor, I will not take part in the vote. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] FALANGA (PdL). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u52	I take note of that and give you the floor. Colleagues, we are not debating the world universe, but we are talking about the establishment of a Committee for Constitutional Reforms. [[Applause from the PdL Group and the Senators Bulgarelli and Lezzi]] Therefore, anyone who departs from the subject, under our Rules of Procedure, will be removed from the floor. (Senator Falanga speaks on the phone.) Senator Falanga, it is true that a phone call lengthens your life, but if you want to disagree do so now or you never speak again. [[Laughter from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u53	Mr. President, I was distracted. Mr Quagliariello, in the context of an attention to our Constitutional Charter, justice cannot be neglected. You see, I believe that with ordinary law it is not possible to carry out that reform that is necessary at this particular moment of our country. I refer in particular to Article 104 of the Constitution, which governs the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We see that, according to the third paragraph of Article 104, the first President of the Court of Cassation (magistrate) and the attorney-general at the Court of Cassation (magistrate) are part of the law and that, according to the next paragraph, two thirds of the members are expected to be elected by the judges (magistrates) and one third are elected by Parliament. As can be imagined, the composition of a body which should, in some way, also intervene in disciplinary proceedings is by an overwhelming majority the expression of the judiciary. These principles must be amended, as must Article 112 of the Constitution on the mandatory prosecution. We cannot now think of a reform of the judiciary by neglecting to include these issues. I remember that Minister Mastella attempted an amendment with ordinary law that was not finally approved, and in any case would not have had the desired effects. We must strike a fair balance between the powers of the State. In this climate, with this position, so different, between the powers of the State, we will continue to live in a country that cannot actually be described as democratic. That is why I will not vote against it, but I will abstain from voting on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u56	CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a moment's attention. This night, after long months of agony, the lawyer Alberto Musy, city councilman of Turin, who in a morning of March 2012 suffered a terrible ambush, after having accompanied his young daughters to school. He was a great lawyer, a constitutionalist, a citizen exemplar, a public administrator driven only by an authentic spirit of service towards his city, Turin, which in these long months has never stopped remembering him and being close to his family. I would like to express to the wife, Angelica, to the daughters, exemplaryly close all this time to her husband and father, and also to the mayor of Turin the feelings of closeness of all of us. It is right that Italy and the Senate honor their best children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u57	Thank you, President Casini. Of course, the Presidency supports the condolences you have expressed. We are sad for the news that has just been communicated to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u59	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u60	I would remind you that a qualified majority is required in the vote. PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I know perfectly well that this is the second reading in the Senate of the measure we are debating today; I also know that from the first reading to the present day there have been several things and not those that belong to the news, partly referred to by Senator Mineo. An important fact has happened. I refer to the message from the President of the Republic, which focuses on the malaise of criminal justice and relates to various and multiple interventions which he himself, in official forums, has made, calling for a reform of justice. I would remind you, for example, that a few hours later the President of the Republic had to intervene and had - precisely - to ask for a reform of the justice in which he thought that the conditions were then there. As we all know, the reform of justice is out of the question of constitutional reform. The constitutional reform concerns the architecture of the State, but it does not concern - alas - an important part of this architecture, which is - in fact - the judiciary. Personally, I do not share the words of those who, given to the law, say that it is possible to go on the path of reform outside the constitutional architecture. That is not true. Senator Falanga mentioned earlier, for example, the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary which finds in the Constitution the origin of its ordinary law, just as the Constitution provides for the composition of the Constitutional Court and the method of election, as in the Constitutional Charter it provides for the separation of careers and as in the Constitutional Charter in some respects it also provides for a different assessment of the responsibility of the magistrates. I do not think that a reform can be carried out which we all hope will leave out an important issue such as justice, which - as Senator Minzolini rightly points out - is an integral part of this architecture precisely because of the need to ensure the balance of powers. Senator Mineo, without any exploitation, I stress that the facts of the news are of interest to you and interest us much less when it comes to constitutional reform. That is why I shall abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, just to point out and to be able to vote serenely, I would stress that the parliamentary committee that we have set up will not deal with Title IV of the Constitution, but this does not determine that the Commission has been stripped of its ownership to deal with changes that affect all other parts of the Constitution through the ordinary road.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u62	I would remind you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, in the second resolution, the draft Constitutional Law is approved if it obtains the vote in the final vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. Therefore, before proceeding to the final vote of the constitutional bill n. 813-B, I have, pursuant to article 107, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, the determination of the number of those present. (Follows the determination of the number of persons present.) In view of the outcome of the test, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u63	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, for the second resolution on the draft constitutional law n 813-B, as a whole. The favorable senators will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will express themselves accordingly. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 289 Senators voting 288 Absolute majority of members 161 Favorable 218 Contrars 58 Absent 12]] The Senate approves by a two-thirds majority of its members in the second resolution. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, PdL, SCPI, GAL and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Comments of the Senators of the Misto-SEL Group, waving flags of Italy]] The two-thirds quorum provided for in the Constitution was 214, and therefore has been exceeded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u64	The next item is: The President's statement, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the content of the bill of stability. I inform you that the Presidency has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 1120 containing: This appropriation is intended to cover the expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council and to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council. Taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission, examined the bill of stability for 2014, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, taken note of the position of the Government, I communicate that the bill of stability appears overall in line with the requirements of article 11, paragraph 6, introductory wording and letter i), of the law of accounting and public finance, that is, with the prohibition of introducing norms that are ordinamental or organizer, with the exception of the following provisions, of which I ask the Senator Secretary to give reading. (Brusio). Colleagues, these parts will be deleted, so I think they are of some relevance. I understand that at this moment everyone feels like fathers, mothers, uncles and aunts, but the law of stability is equally important. Therefore, colleagues who wish to rejoice in the adoption of the law that provides for the establishment of the Reform Committee can do so outside the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You're welcome, Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u65	Article 6, paragraph 25, establishing at the Ministry of Economic Development a directing booth for the monitoring and coordination of interventions provided for by the legislation in force for corporate crises; Article 10, paragraph 4, in the matter of periodic publications of high cultural value; Article 10, paragraphs 9 and 10, in the matter of accounting autonomy of the Board of President of Tax Justice; Article 10, paragraphs 38 to 40, in the matter of the operation of the Institute for the supervision of Insurance (VATS); Article 11, paragraph 7, in the matter of the distribution of professional compensations cleared following a favourable judgment for public administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u66	The Presidency therefore provides for the deletion of all the aforementioned provisions, which will constitute autonomous draft laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u67	I therefore refer to the draft law Nos. 1120 (Stability Act for 2014) and 1121 (State budget for the financial year 2014 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2014-2016) to the 5th Commission, in the referent, with the opinion of all other permanent Commissions. The Commissions are therefore now authorised to supplement their agendas for the examination of budgetary documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, since the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a have not yet completed their examination in the referee, the discussion of the draft law converting the IMU decree-law is postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u69	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00149 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ghedini Rita and other senators, and 1-00163, tabled by Senator Stucchi and other senators, on the process of democratization in Myanmar. (Brusio). However, in view of the progress and disorder of the proceedings, I suspend the sitting. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . (The sitting was suspended at 12.13 p.m. and resumed at 12.21 p.m.) (Brusio). The session is resumed. Colleagues, please, for the umpteenth time I invite you to free the hemicycle. I call Senator Ghedini Rita to explain motion No 149 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u70	Mr President, I believe that this interruption, aimed at achieving silence, has also served to clear the Chamber. In fact, I regret it a little, because I would have liked the reflections that we want to make here today, with this motion and with the other one that has been presented by my colleagues in the North League, to give continuity to a commitment that the Senate of the Italian Republic has maintained over the years, in accompanying the path of Myanmar, first Burma, to full democratisation. Our Senate has intervened several times over the last few years with parliamentary acts, both in the Committee on Human Rights and in this House. I would like to recall here the passionate interventions of Senator Soliani, who has called us all to the responsibility for the process of democratization in Burma. The Senate has repeatedly expressed its views on the grave violation of human rights in that country and on the conditions of life and deprivation of the freedom of Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, as well as on the need for her release and release of all political prisoners. I still keep the red ribbon that we all wore in one of the most dramatic moments of that process, invoking the release of San Suu Kyi. Today, therefore, we present this motion at a turning point in the politics of that country, of which Aung San Suu Kyi was a motor and symbol. Today San Suu Kyi is in Parliament, elected in April 2012, when his party, in the supplementary elections, obtained 43 out of the 45 electoral seats made available. And just these days he has started a trip to Europe that is added to the meetings attended by representatives of the new Burmese Government in recent months and already since 2012. I would like to remind you that a very important conference is also being held today, organized by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the presence of the Burmese Minister for Foreign Affairs. Actions, events, signs that give substance, concreteness to the process of democratization that launched the new President Thein Sein, leading a formally civil government that has become the protagonist of important openings, with the release of about 400 political prisoners, the easing of censorship on the media, the signing of agreements with armed groups of ethnic minorities and the announcement of treches with the insurrectionalist movements, with which, unfortunately, the armed struggle is still underway. A virtuous process has therefore been triggered that we would like to accompany. Europe has already responded to this process. On 22 April this year, all sanctions, particularly economic sanctions, were lifted against Myanmar. Only the arms embargo has been maintained. Sanctions have been lifted by the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union and the system of preferential tariffs has been restored, i.e. the lowering of export duties from Burma to the European Union. I was saying, the transition process started and important, which represents a prospect of confrontation for the development of fully positive relations both from the institutional point of view and from the economic point of view. Nevertheless, we cannot accept that there are still serious violations of human rights against certain ethnic groups in that country and that there are still serious violations of citizenship rights, one of which is forced recruitment of child soldiers. Burma is enlisting the world's tenth army and still defending 40% of its national spending, against 28% committed to spending on education and health; and there are still 43 prisons destined for political prisoners and about 50 detention camps, where inmates are still forced to work. The condition of Burmese children is of great weakness and fragility; moreover, according to UNICEF data, 10% of the child population does not reach the age of five. 95% of the population lives below the poverty line and GDP per capita is less than half that of neighbouring countries, however not flourishing, such as Bangladesh or Cambodia. These figures confirm that international support for the stages of this reform process is indispensable. The consolidation of democratic reform in Burma is also a decisive factor for the harmonious development of all countries in that area and the achievement of common objectives for the protection of human rights and peace. The democratic evolution of Burma, respect for human rights, the liberation of all political prisoners, the overcoming of ethnic conflicts must be regarded as a necessary and integral prerequisite for the economic and social development of that country. In 2014, Burma will take over the presidency of the South-East Asia Association of Nations: this greatly increases its responsibility and also the critical issues surrounding this leading role. I recall, to mention only one of these critical issues, that most of the ASEAN countries are Muslim majority and in Myanmar there are still very violent conflicts between ethnic groups, particularly the conflict with the Muslim religion population. We therefore need to open up to the international community and the world market in a climate that will enable the full development of the local economy together with the full development of human rights and democratic freedoms. We believe that the international community must play a leading role in this transition, acting to ensure that the change resulting from opening up to the free market rests on economic, social and constitutional reforms that respect civil rights that are the basis of economic development in every democracy. The Italian Government has been very active and we think that this commitment is absolutely fundamental to guarantee - I remember - ever more intense exchanges and satisfaction for both countries, but also for the completion of the democratic transition that has at its foundation a necessary constitutional revision. Today, the Constitutional Charter approved by the military in 2008, whose revision is the subject of political and parliamentary discussion, presents some serious problems, including the assignment of 25% of the seats of the Union Assembly and the House of Nationality to the military and the exclusion of the possibility of running for presidential elections of citizens who are married to people or have children with foreign citizenship. This is in fact unacceptable discrimination and is certainly also discrimination ad personam, since Aung San Suu Kyi was married to a British citizen and her children are also British nationals. I shall finish quickly, Mr President. I believe that I have made it clear, by carrying out this excursus, what needs we are calling for Italy and the European Union as a whole to carry their full support and commitment. Finally, I would like to mention a sentence by Aung San Suu Kyi which has become the symbol of many women engaged in the battle for democracy throughout the world. Aung San Suu Kyi, in 1997, hoping for what seems to be happening, asked the other countries, in particular the European countries: Use your strength, your freedom to foster our strength. I think we can work on that. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and the Senators Berger and Giannini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u71	I call Senator Stucchi to explain motion 163.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u72	Mr President, we have tabled a motion as a Group which, with regard to the premises and, above all, the will contained in the final arrangement, is similar to that set out by Senator Ghedini. However, we believe it is appropriate to stress certain facts which differ somewhat from the priorities which we believe should be highlighted in the debate on such an important subject as the one we are discussing today, although the former Burma, Myanmar, may appear far away from the country. It is an important issue, because it deals with issues related to the very essence of democratic confrontation and therefore those rules of common living, of living respecting and respecting one another among peoples, which should be shared throughout the world and always defended. As I said, the premises are acceptable and shared with the motion just explained, however, unlike Senator Ghedini, in the final device we also refer to an important factor, that of the process of self-determination, that is, that there is the possibility for that state reality to have, in any case, a regime chosen autonomously with regard to its own Constitution and its internal bodies, and therefore also that process of legislative sovereignty which must of course evolve towards the shores closer to the Western conception of democracy and popular participation in the fundamental choices of a country's life. It has been pointed out that in Myanmar, alas, certain choices made with the constitutional change of a few years ago led, not to an ad personam law, but to a Constitution contra personam, aimed at preventing a subject from participating in the presidential elections only because of the fact that he had children born from a partner who was not a citizen of the former Burma. This is unacceptable. We believe that the ongoing process, of which we stress in a positive way certain aspects, such as the fact that censorship has been loosened and therefore the freedom of the press or the participation of Aung San Suu Kyi's party in the last elections has grown, which, among other things, has obtained a very broad consensus that has allowed him to move into the democratic assemblies of that country (it would be better to say elective assemblies, because perhaps the democratic term is a little too strong being a country that still has a process towards democracy) important. These are certainly important steps. We have also mentioned the liberation - we have written it in our premises - of the 200 political prisoners, and I recall the very constitution of the National Commission on Civil Rights: these are steps of which we cannot conceal the importance, but they cannot be considered exhaustive; they are signs that must be noted and detected, taken and observed carefully, but we must ask to do more. The international community can do more, as has been done several times in these parliamentary classrooms (it has been remembered the battle of Senator Soliani on this issue). We, as representatives within this House of the citizens who believe in the values of democracy, must always fight for whatever state reality we are talking about, even far away, like the former Burma or Myanmar, to make everyone understand that there must be a sharing of the values I mentioned earlier in the world: democracy and the possibility of making the citizens decide directly who is to govern, and not the military dictatorship, which we know instead, and that, alas, not only in that country, but also in other realities of the world, is still well present and has certainly very heavy and important powers, even in areas where there are particular economic interests. In those areas perhaps these dictators are those who benefit from the exploitation of certain highly sought-after raw materials. All that is obtained from the sale and marketing of such materials does not go to the legitimate owners, that is, the citizens of those territories, of those countries, but often ends up in the pockets of their rulers and their dictators. Turning back to the former Burma speech, I think it is worth pointing out that the text of the two motions is basically almost comparable. I hope, therefore, that we can achieve a united text to be voted on together, because the issue is certainly important, and it represents, if we want, the map of litmusols of many other realities, which can be of South America or of other parts of the world that live delicate situations. As Europeans and as Italian citizens who have a history in terms of well-established democracy, we have a duty: to remind everyone how important these values are. We often fail to do so properly. Maybe they're chasing problems a little unorganized. This has not happened on the former Burma. I must stress in this House that the commitment that has been made over the years has indeed been witnessed by constant and continuous attention. It is an important factor that cannot be forgotten and ignored, because if other international contexts had also had the same degree of "attention" on the part of our parliamentary classrooms, perhaps even our fellow citizens today would be more aware of what is happening in countries that may be unknown or almost in the world, countries that still need support, international attention, who need someone to turn on the light bulb and say that there are problems in those areas and that the situation must be resolved, because certain deprivations that are inflicted on the freedom of citizens are no longer acceptable. So, faced with such a perspective, and with the wish of course that we can quickly improve the situation in Myanmar and in all the other areas that are suffering today, we have tabled our motion and, of course, we hope that we will achieve a shared text on which the vote of the whole House can converge. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u73	Given the time, and not wanting to suspend the debate in half, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on motions for resolutions to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u76	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to urge the Government and, in particular, through the Presidency, the Ministers of Economic and Financial Affairs and Economic Development to give an answer to a question (Senate Act 3-00234) which I tabled in this House on 15 July concerning the issue of the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. As a result of my repeated but still elusive reminders sent to the Minister for relations with Parliament about a problem involving thousands of workers involved in redundancies and externalisations, through the Presidency and this House I ask the Government to give an answer, also through the public money competition represented by the famous Monti Bonds, used in order to avoid the failure of a credit institution that today announces, through the press, to put at risk thousands of jobs, not only in my region but throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u77	It will be our duty to urge the Government to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u80	Borioli (PD). Mr President, I would like to make this brief speech to draw the House's attention to last weekend's events in the province of Alexandria, precisely in Acqui Terme with the annual edition of the Acqui Storia award. That of Acqui Storia - I think it is known to many colleagues - is one of the most prestigious prizes of contemporary history, established at the end of the sixties to remember the massacre of the 33rd Division of infantry that takes its name from the spa town, slaughtered in Kefalonia and Corfu. Moreover, the 70th anniversary of that massacre took place in September this year. During the now decades of history that boasts behind them the Acqui Storia award, personalities from the world and historical research of different cultural backgrounds have been rewarded, always giving rise to a pluralism that in some way is an expression of absolute quality. What happened this year, however, is very serious: the Acqui Storia award, precisely on the occasion of the 70th anniversary, not only took place without the fact that the public institutions, which give life to it, made a minimum reference to the memory of the massacre in which about 10,000 Italian jockeys and officers fell - and that President Ciampi defined the first act of the Resistance - but even, through a program, in its significant part, it actually had the flavor, not already to compare the free debate of the ideas of historiographic reconstructions, but to dismantle and scalf deep, at the root, the fundamental core of a historical truth that entrusted to that story and Italian liberation the founding and founding element of our democracy. I have already written a letter to the President of the Republic and to the presidency of the Senate - that prize is awarded to the accession of the Senate of the Republic - because I do not think it is possible to allow, without prejudice to the respect of the opinions of all, that occasions such as that, which should serve to celebrate and remember the constitutive memory of our democracy, instead serve to rewrite and distort history. This is a very serious matter which I would like to point out to the House and which I shall then add in advance in a letter which will also be sent to the Presidency. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u81	It will be my duty to report back to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u84	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, some 20 days ago, in this House, the examination of draft law No 580 began, which regulates the procedure for the dismantling of buildings built without a building permit. The report was carried out by the rapporteur, but then there was no more news of this measure. In Campania, in these hours, five abusive houses are being demolished. The judgments must undoubtedly be carried out, their enforceability is not questioned, but the proposed law in question is simply to prevent that, while this morning the house of a 75-year-old pensioner (a prefabricated house of 75 square meters) is knocked down, the eco-monster is then left standing, built abusively by a company that who knows with which funds it has built those buildings. The bill presented by me, which has already been fired by the Senate Justice Commission and has arrived in the Chamber, is simply to regulate and scale up the interventions: first the building built by subjects related to organized crime (and therefore presumably with illicit proceeds), then the second houses are knocked down (for example, those built at Vesuvius to go for picnics), and then after that will certainly also be the house of the citizen living there with his family, who built it with his own savings. This is what this bill provides, of which, after the report, there has been no more news. My speech is aimed at stimulating and soliciting the sensibilities of the senators who make up the Conference of Leaders in order to schedule and bring this right measure back to the Chamber, in order to avoid what is unfortunately happening this morning, that is to say that the house of a single worker citizen is being knocked down and the swimming pool of the grand hotel is left standing abusively built. I therefore insist that the Conference of the Leaders next week, between one motion and the other, should include this small measure on the agenda, which has been approved by the Commission almost unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u85	Senator Falanga, I invite you, of course, to report this need to your Parent Company as well. I have some concerns about the timing, because having just declared the budgetary session open, I do not know whether your request will be compatible with the rules laid down in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u88	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I just wanted to take this opportunity to remind you that constitutional law No. 1 of 2012, Article 5, paragraph 4, states that the Chambers, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the respective Regulations, exercise the function of control over public finances. However, this rule has not yet been implemented, in the sense that the Regulations have not been amended, and almost two years have passed since the adoption of this law, which is a constitutional law. I would therefore urge, if possible, that the Junta be convened to implement this law, because there must be a change in the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u89	Senator Bulgarelli, in this regard I inform you that at the last meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the subject, which many of its members have called for, was also addressed, precisely for the purposes that you yourself have set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u92	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, in recent days, particularly during the night between Sunday and Monday, in the municipalities of Valle del Serchio, in Garfagnana, in particular in the municipalities of Barga, Gallicano, Molazzana and Fabbriche di Vallico, but also in the Province of Pistoia and in the Province of Siena, as well as in the Province of Lucca, there have been serious alluvial damage due to a rain that has been called a water bomb: 340 millimeters fallen in a few hours. The damage to infrastructure and housing has been very serious, with many displaced people and many families remaining outside their homes and requiring immediate aid. The Tuscany Region has already declared the state of regional emergency. We need an immediate release of the civil protection funds, which have already been allocated, and that funds be made available for these emergencies in the future stability law, which we will begin to discuss this afternoon. In addition, I would like to stress to the Presidency the need for action that leads to the exclusion from the Stability Pact at least of security measures for seismic and hydrogeological events. I wanted to inform the House and the Presidency. Of course, we will work together with all our colleagues in Tuscany and all our colleagues who care about this kind of serious situation, in the interest of these territories and of the whole country, so that these measures can be taken quickly and with incisiveness in relation to the expectations of the territory and the citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u93	President Marcucci, it will be our duty to report the case you have also raised to the Government, which I believe is the subject that must address these issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-130.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.52 p.m.
