ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Di Giorgi, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 28 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u4	I inform you that on 30 November 2013 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Vice President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 133 of 30 November 2013 laying down urgent provisions concerning the IMU, the sale of public buildings and the Banca d'Italia" (1188).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u5	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate of the Republic today recalls the seven victims of the devastating fire that developed inside a textile factory in the industrial area of Macrolotto in Prato on 1 December. This tragedy provokes profound disturbance and emotion, feelings to which is added the indignation for the working conditions in which they were forced to work and live the Chinese workers involved in the tragic burning. Conditions devoid of humanity and dignity. These are situations of real slavery and degradation. This is not acceptable anywhere in the world. All the more so in Italy, which makes the protection of work one of the cornerstones of its Constitution. The protection of workers is only achieved if the principle of legality is specifically stated. The protection of work is a civil duty and moral imperative. No one can turn around. It is necessary to realize with determination every effort on the part of all those involved to overcome omerta and distrust, and to spread, starting from school, a concrete and not rhetorical culture of compliance with the rules. It therefore addresses the representatives of the Chinese community and the city of Prato the expression of human participation and condolences for the victims, and the wish for a prompt recovery of the injured workers. I call on the House to observe a minute of silence and mourning for the seven victims of the fire at the textile factory in Prato. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u8	Barani (GAL). Mr President, seven deaths and two injuries: we are faced with the fair of hypocrisy, demagogy and false populism. How is it possible that a well visible shed has been the object of this terrible tragedy, without ever any control being done before, in what many consider the evolved Tuscany, which has nothing evolved? Not in India, but in Tuscany, seven slaves died without a name, after working, not underground in a catacomb, but in an industrial shed, a shed like many others. Everything made in China: property, management and work, and all illegal, from security, contracts, accounting, tax, without anyone having dealt with this, neither the Ministry of the Interior, nor the Ministry of Justice, nor that of the economy and finance, nor the Labour Inspectorate, nor the prosecutor of the Republic, nor an ASL, nor the president of the Tuscany Region, Enrico Rossi. There is no one who, outside the conferences, fights against these barbarism, someone who faces the scandal of this China that competitions us in Italy, in our home and with its rules. Every day the bureaucratic state knocks at the doors of Italians and entrepreneurs with a suffocating bureaucracy and these are continually hit. No one cares instead of those who secretly and illegally compete with us, in Italy and with their rules. It is the State that does not see those in Italy who work outside of every rule and does unfair competition to Italian productions and brands. Let it be clear that globalization has nothing to do with it: it has to do with the unacceptable absence of those who speak so much, like the mayor of Florence Matteo Renzi, but it does not conclude anything. I conclude with the quote of Luigi Compagna that on \"Il Foglio" makes good the tragedy of Prato, which is not addressable in the nineteenth century English between the essays of Engels and the novels of Dickens, but it is the hard and raw reality of a hypocritical demagogy and a false populism, made only of conferences but not of solving real problems in Italy. I express the Group's closeness to these nameless clandestine sects who died as slaves in Italy, Tuscany. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u11	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the deaths we remember today are announced: those who claim otherwise either do not know or are a liar. There are very large responsibilities, and they are collective, for what happened a few hours ago in the city of Prato. No one can say he didn't know. The situation and drama are known even before those deaths were such. The Prato issue is no longer confined to that city, but extends to the hinterland of Prato and Florence, because there are dozens of falansteri, worse than those of industrial and pre-industrial England, which now grow between the province of Prato and the suburb of Florence. Those who today went to the historic center of Florence and, in particular to the market of San Lorenzo, would discover that a third of the shops that were once artisans were bought by small Chinese entrepreneurs and artisans and probably reduced in working conditions not unlike those that have manifested themselves in the suburbs of Prato and in the city of Prato. We are in such a special condition because the many authorities, the Chinese authorities in the lead, have covered the drama, and they have done so in a ominous way. I had the privilege of taking care of it for a few months because I had a delegate to the Councillor for the Tuscany Region. I informed the Chinese consul three times, as well as our authorities, and I was amazed at how much the Chinese consul and embassy were aware of what was happening, but they were absolutely opposed to any form of dialogue and relationship with the Italian institutions. I suggest three things. In the renewal of the pact "Prato città sicura", signed by the Minister of Interior Maroni in 2010 and recently renewed by Minister Alfano, either they make available men and means or otherwise that pact signals a problem, but does nothing to correct it. I suggest, then, to Senator Manconi, president of the Human Rights Commission of the Senate, to go there: he will have a terrible vision of how in 2013 factories can work in a civilized land like Tuscany. Finally, the institutions must all be able to move in a coordinated and more effective way, because that is Italian land, it is not Republic of another country within the borders of the Italian land. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u14	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, today we are indignant and saddened by this massacre, which is simply one of the many that could have happened and one of the many that could have happened, but I believe that, in addition to indignation and pain, we also have an obligation to face reality, because words are never adequate. The entry of Chinese citizens into the community of Prato has always been constant in these years, with a boom reached at the beginning of the 2000s. Observing the entry flows, however, it is clear that, net of entry without residence permits, there was no repressive law, such as the so-called Bossi-Fini, Identification and Ejection Centers (CIE) or other security measure put in place by all governments, to prevent this process. If we stop demagogy and use xenophobia for electoral purposes, we should all recognise that global and historical processes, such as immigration, do not stop with provisions of laws, fines, sanctions or prosecutions. We have been overwhelmed by the ideology of globalisation, forgetting that if finance and the economy are not to be limited, it follows that men and women are also globalised. Globalisation has been used as a clava, as an instrument of power, in spite of the rights of men and women; the same men and women who have been used and are used as commodities. The story of Prato tells that the Chinese were first used by us Italians as black workers, that the flight from a country, which is in fact still a dictatorship, led them to prefer inhuman conditions, but certainly with a minimum of freedom over the country of origin. In these hours we are witnessing a disturbing wave of racism that accuses the entire Chinese community, which would tolerate all this, and there are also those who, from the ranks of the center-left, accuse the Union. In fact, the more hours pass and the more it emerges that those workshops were not used by the circuit of small Chinese shops selling clothes in our cities, but by the great brands of Italian fashion, which sell at high prices in elegant shops of our historic centers and shopping centers. In Prato, in these years of black crisis, many textile companies closed and were the excellence of a real industrial district and in those same sheds Chinese companies were born. Yet in Prato the data provided by CGIL tells us that there are five INPS inspectors, of which three are administrative, only ten are labour inspectors and only one INAIL inspector. We expect, as a concrete sign of this debate, that in Prato all these numbers will become a thousand, just as we hope that after this tragedy we will return to talk about traceability of the product, which means certainty of respect for the rights of workers and their living conditions. Of course, controls are important and there are no mediations for companies that save on labour costs, but new laws are also needed so that the arrival and permanence of these new citizens takes place in transparency and not in lawlessness. In conclusion, President, I would like to point out that a few kilometers from Prato, Campi Bisenzio, in the same years many Chinese have arrived, but for years there has been another story, made up of an integrated system of controls, not to strike indiscriminately, but to talk about security and prevention, a story made up of cultural mediation at the municipality, places of work and schools; a commitment of an entire community not to create ghettos, but a cultural interaction. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u17	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for us today to remember the deaths of Prato without saying "we said so!" because for years the North League has denounced the aberrant conditions in which Chinese workers are forced to live, not only in China, but also in our country; new slaves of irresponsible masters who, in order to make unfair competition with our products, impose massacred work shifts, underpay the labour by keeping it in black, in total contempt of the labor laws that our entrepreneurs respect, by making these workers live in dormitories of luck that, in this sad case, were nothing more than loculi in plasterboard, contrary to any safety norm, which in fact have transformed, in a few minutes, into burnings without escape, that have swallowed up these unfortunate unnamed workers. Despite the efforts of local authorities, if there are no concrete instruments and actions on the part of all state bodies, tragedies such as that which took place in Prato will be inevitable. The municipalities cannot be left alone to govern complex problems such as these, with implications for the local economy and security; security understood also in the workplaces where thousands of people sleep, live and eat and where even children play, in total abandonment. This massacre announced represents a condemnation without appeal of a country in which all the authorities - institutional, political and trade union - compete in condemning racism and xenophobia, except to close both eyes to the slave exploitation of these workers. This is where the Minister for Integration should intervene. It is trying to raise awareness among its colleagues to enforce the laws that integrate these poor people, it is not pretending nothing or doing goodies. What happened in Prato could happen in many other districts in Italy. Let's think about the fields of vegetable harvesting in South Italy. We think of Chinatown in Milan, in via Paolo Sarpi, where everyone knows but nobody intervenes. Everyone has known these problems for years, but nobody intervenes. What do labour inspectorates do in these areas? What does the judiciary do against the exploiters of these slaves and against the inefficient control bodies? Nothing. Of course, doing this doesn't give you the reputation of pursuing the usual political characters. We must fight with all possible means against illegality and illegality at work. This is an unstoppable emergency. We need concrete action and action from all the bodies of the State, so that similar disasters do not happen again. What we fear is that what happens in Italy always happens, what in Italy is everyday life: a disaster happens, if we talk about it for a few days, the Head of State intervenes (in this case too it is absurd to think that President Napolitano knew nothing about it) and in a few days we return to talk about something else, without doing anything, waiting for some other massacre or scandal to happen. This is the Italy of fake integration. This is the Italy of emergencies This is Italy now closer to the Third World than to Europe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u20	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot and must not indulge in expressions of mere mourning and indignation, which, despite their duty, are not of relief, let alone mitigate the seriousness of the event: they certainly do not reduce responsibilities. Responsibility is not just a paradigm of the ex post, but must be the principle and paradigm of the ex ante. Responsibility also means being aware of the wrongdoing, being aware of fundamental human rights trampled on and conculcated without having provided for it, in time and in time. Everyone in Prato - and not only - was aware of the exploitation and trafficking of workers, obviously illegal. In a very strong expression reported on a daily newspaper, which I do, we can define these people as ghosts from the living and ghosts from the dead: buried by the living in anonymity aimed at low-cost productivity without any protection, without any dignity other than that commensurate to the underground production, and for the other towards members of a community aware of the exploitation in place for a long time, of which everyone was abundantly aware. In addition to the Chinese who have integrated themselves over time, we must say aloud that there are entrepreneurs who have continued to do their business, not always clean, and the many slaves who, precisely clandestine, live and work in the workshops: in summer - as has been recalled by a noticist today, and to all also known - when for the heat the doors or windows remain ajar, you can see in certain streets of industrial areas of Prato ghosts, which emerge only after a control, or instead, dramatically, after a massacre. In 80 percent of the cases the checks carried out in these companies - the mayor of Prato confirms - involve the seizure of the fund and the machinery: a clear sign of a worrying spread of the phenomenon, despite the more than 300 controls carried out every year by the municipal police and the interforce team that, in Prato, is also composed of the Carabinieri, the inspection core of the territorial direction of the job, INPS, INAIL and functional unit, prevention and safety in the workplace of the ASL. As has been noted, by the mayor of Prato Roberto Cenni: In order to seize the machinery, you just have to pay a fine. So it is enough to find another accommodation to start working again under the same conditions. It is intolerable for Prato and for the whole country that such situations continue to evolve and never in a positive sense. That's quite a worrying notation. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u23	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's work in this House decided unanimously in its report on the re-establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work. We had felt the need to repeat the positive experience achieved in the last parliamentary term, in the conviction, at least for my part, that in our labour market there is an unbearable dualism between realities that we could call hyper-regulated and reality that, as the tragedy of Prato shows us, we must recognize that we are hyper-regulated. The way to counter this dualism is certainly to strengthen our institutional capacity, but at the same time also to consolidate our social capacity, integrating communities resistant to dialogue with those of the host country and achieving levels of social control such as up to now, at least in these areas, have not been produced. Soon, at the Conference of the Leaders, I will propose that the Assembly examine as soon as possible the proposal for the establishment of this single chamber committee of inquiry, so that it can be immediately operational. Just as I hope that soon - and I shall begin to conclude - we will be able to examine a constitutional bill that has so far found broad consensus: the one aimed at bringing back to the state all the competences in the field of health and safety at work, in order to rationalise as much as possible the competences, especially those of inspection. I think, in short, that there are conditions for widely shared paths, compared to objectives that can only be of everyone. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u26	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, Senators, Prato is not my city but I live very close to it. I am from Scandicci and I know it as a reality because I live it, also through contacts with the inhabitants who are in the surroundings of my house. Prato is a city that until a few years ago was counted among the Italian excellences in the industrial production of fabrics and yarns: a real pride of the national textile business. Today it is a city where the tragedy that took place a few days ago was defined, as it was logical to expect, a tragedy announced. Although the phenomenon has been in place for almost twenty years, it would be useful to ask oneself and also to reflect on the political responsibilities of those who have administered in the past. The industrial peripheral area of Prato is mostly occupied by Chinese industries. Out of 6,500 textile companies, 3,500 are Chinese: a sort of China detachment in Prato. Of course, to call them industries is difficult, it is impossible; it is in fact hellish sheds where lawlessness is breathed everywhere. In the factories of the so-called Chinatown, one of the largest in Europe, the Chinese not only work in inhumane conditions, but live equally. They are inaccessible places for others; the night as the day makes no difference, here you always work, twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, worse than in hospital, which is always open: they too are always open; there are no shifts, there are no holidays, rest days, diseases; there is nothing for them; there are no unions or protection of workers' rights. Also, they are monitored from the outside by cameras, which are often placed outside the sheds to check if these people come in or out, how much air they take, how many breaks they take; in short, it is a deterrent to keep them inside to work. So the workers work incessantly. The sanitary conditions are bad, just think that their dormitories are commonly called locules: in fact they cannot define themselves as bedrooms, but rather seem to remember the niches of cemeteries as small, without air, humid; some do not even have the floor, do not have bathrooms: often those who live do their own needs in urinals or basins. The Chinese in Prato, as in Florence or in Livorno, are referred to as the new masters, but the real masters are not the workers-slaves, but those who arrive in Ferrari, pay the accounts of the super luxurious hotels with bribes of banknotes (usually never pay with credit cards or ATMs, always have cash in hand). The workers-slaves do not know that they produce an estimated turnover in several million or billions (it is not known, because it is not given to know): we speak of 400 million, then of 4 billion, then of even 10 billion of unevaded money that from Italy they go to China without paying a single euro of taxes. The investigations of the Anti-Mafia Directorate and the prosecutors show the domain of Chinese racketeering and crime. Here, then, Prato: textile district crisis and strong Chinese migration. It is a situation now rooted in the territory, an area defined as free, without rights in the heart of Tuscany (and we are in Tuscany, a region quite evolved from the legal point of view). In Prato, out of 192,000 inhabitants, 35,000 are foreigners, plus a number of illegals who are estimated to be between 20,000 and 40,000 (this is also not known). The commitment must therefore come from all sides; the efforts of the local authorities are not enough. If there are no concrete instruments and actions on the part of all the organs from the State, tragedies like yesterday are bound to happen again, because they had already happened in the past. The numbers were smaller, perhaps the dead were not as many as today, but it has already happened that these sheds caught fire and that people remained burned; people who then end up in hospitals where of course is cured. Obviously for those families it is a high level of damage, because when a person undergoes a mutilation from an accident it is a sentimental and family drama that touches personally, but it is also a social and economic damage for a country, because Italy must cure these people anyway and take care of them. Therefore, even in order to prevent these "inutile" expenses - because preventing these people from harming themselves and the society in which they live - we need a measure that eliminates at the root a way of making economy that does not respect the rules; we need to regulate the phenomenon of clandestineness, but at the same time seriously build a dialogue that sees as protagonists the authorities of the two countries concerned. The rules, in fact, must be shared; to eliminate the problem, the controls prepared in the companies by those who deal with safety in the Municipality of Prato are not enough. Enough with the files on Prato; you have to get out of those places, but of course you have to get out of them alive. Today, as President Sacconi said, it has been deliberate (not because this tragedy has happened; it was already on schedule and we would have done it today) the establishment of the Commission of inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work, which I hope will also work to ensure that certain situations do not recur over time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u29	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the one on Sunday morning in the lager shed of the Prato macrolotto was unfortunately a massacre announced, because the Chinese in Prato are now more than 50,000, between regulars and illegals. They live at thousands of times, in conditions of extreme degradation and danger, working 18 hours at work and earning one euro per hour, outside of all standards of safety and hygiene. It is no longer conceivable that Italy, the cradle of trade unionism, and Tuscany, considered the cradle of modern civilization, can still tolerate this new slavery imposed by a crime as ruthless as it is organized. The massacre on Sunday cast a shadow on Prato and its alleged indifference to this phenomenon. Nothing more false: the municipal administration in the last four years carried out as many as 1,400 checks in the sheds run by Chinese, 600 of which were seized, along with 26,000 textile machinery. But all this was not enough to stop the infernal machine of black labor and slavery: a slavery through which the illegal district thrives that has a turnover of almost two billion euros a year that escapes all control and a flow of money to China of 500 million euros a year through money transfers. Prato has been calling for extraordinary state intervention to restore legality in what Attorney Tony called a far west, a legality that not only means recovery of tax evasion, but also a commitment to the whole field starting from the arrest of slave traders. I thank, from Prato, the police for the tireless daily work they carry out on the territory, but they are all understaffed. Prato has been left alone by the state and I ask today that the government gather immediately the national table for Prato and that the ministers of the interior, of the justice, of the job, of the health, of the foreign countries and also the minister Kyenge, who in an interview published this morning by "The Messenger" said that the Chinese children of Prato are now Prato of the third generation. I wish, ma'am, that's it! Most of the Chinese children of Prato, once weaned, are sent back to China by their grandparents or colleges and return to Prato at school age without knowing a single word of Italian. The community of Prato has always been hospitable, since the 1960s, when it began to welcome a flow of immense and productive immigration; the Chinese one, however, is a closed world, which does not want to open up to the reality in which it lives. I therefore invite all ministers to come to Prato to realize the uniqueness of a municipality with 250,000 inhabitants that hosts the second Chinese community in Europe after Paris. Otherwise, speeches and commemorations will fall into emptiness once again. It is time for the state to reappropriate a piece of its territory left for too long in the hands of the Chinese mob. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u32	Martini (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the words you expressed at the opening of this sitting, words of condolence and human participation in the pain of the victims' families. We also express closeness to the municipal administration of Prato and to all the local administrations engaged, because they are the local administrators the most in direct contact with the thousand problems that an event of this type highlights. Tomorrow afternoon I will attend the open meeting of the city council of Prato; that will also be the occasion to renew this proximity. The pain and dismay must lead to a new and stronger common commitment of all of us, out of all controversy and forcing, and it seems to me that from tonight's debate new conditions emerge that must be used. There are many issues that the Prato case proposes. I only sum up the most important ones for us. First of all, we need a new immigration policy that is up to the new times and new issues. Let us openly say that neither laxity nor rigorism has worked: we need a policy that is now intelligent and flexible, that can handle phenomena every day unpublished. Secondly, we need a stronger dialogue between the Italian and Chinese authorities at the level of governments, but also at the local level; precisely because, as Senator Mazzoni said before me, the Chinese community seems impenetrable, all the more necessary is an institutional dialogue at the highest level. Thirdly, stricter control on the territory is essential. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u33	Excuse me, Senator Martini. Colleagues, to me it seems unlikely to stand up to observe a minute of silence and then, while someone intervenes to express himself on this tragedy, between the benches you chat and laugh. Please, this phase is about to be completed. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr President, I am indeed about to conclude. Thirdly, stricter control over all forms of irregularities and denial of fundamental human rights is essential on the ground. Here we see how the state functions, when well exercised, are really vital and it is not the market alone that solves the problems of a society. Finally, economic development based on the quality of all inputs is needed. The twists are bad even if there are no dead and we need to know that the twists are always there. These are issues on which it is possible to develop a high comparison and an effective initiative. I very much hope so and welcome the announcement that President Sacconi has made a specific work of the 11th Permanent Commission. Two words, in conclusion, on the image of Prato (Senator Mazzoni spoke about it before me): today it is a city painted like a Dantesque group. There are many problems, undoubtedly, but Prato only until a few years ago - as Senator Bencini pointed out - was studied by everyone as an advanced, modern and successful model. So maybe it also takes a little more rigour in the analysis of phenomena. Finally, Prato is not only a shed where social tensions explode, but a city where these problems are studied and deepened. In Prato there is an Australian university, Monash University, which in recent years has produced studies and researches of absolute value on immigration and integration issues. These are resources that, together with the commitment of politics, we must be able to use after such a tragedy. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u35	I greet the students of the State High School "Alfano I" of Salerno, who attend our work from the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u36	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00113 by Senator Nencini and other senators, and 1-00184 by Senator Calderoli and other senators, on the relationship of affiliation between Italian parties and European parties. I call Senator Nencini to explain motion 113.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, motion 113 takes into account a recommendation from the European Commission of March 2013, a few weeks later made up of the European Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I understand that the European Parliament itself could discuss this as soon as possible, definitely before the preparatory phase of the election campaign for the next European elections begins. The recommendation is simple, I would like to say elementary: it provides that the parties participating in the European elections will indicate their candidate for the Presidency of the European Commission (as you know, for the first time the European Parliament will indicate who will succeed in Barroso). Secondly, the Commission's recommendation calls on the parties to make known to the citizens - Italian, Spanish, German and whatever else - before the elections to which European family they intend to join once they have their representation in the European Parliament. They seem to me to be two perfectly normal conditions, linked not to a lofty political consideration but rather to the simple and trivial common sense. I think there are three reasons for common sense. The first is called transparency: transparency means speaking to the citizens the language of clarity, telling them in advance what they intend to do once they have been elected in the representative Parliament of the European Union. The reason for this transparency has two heads. The first is an objective condition: better to say first who we will be once the elected will be able to sit within the Community assembly. Secondly, since parties, groups, parliamentary institutions and citizens have voted to give Europe pieces of sovereignty, it is right to know what European policy is to be followed, in order to do what and to say it, of course, in advance of the vote. The second reason has a decidedly more political motivation, with a double value in Italy: to break and overcome an anomaly that in Italy has been procrastinating decidedly for many years, I would like to say for a few decades. The admission that the anomaly does not correspond to creativity and that, in this case, it is the bearer, and therefore the harbinger, of factors not decidedly or not always positive in the organization of our political system is a consideration that, in this Italy, is supported every day by political-institutional facts decidedly true. Mr President, I would like to stress one of these anomalies, which is polite, and therefore without any negative consideration to the institution which hosts me and in which I have the absolute privilege of sitting, but it remains an anomaly which, moreover, is the daughter of a consideration of a few minutes ago that the President of the Senate made known to anyone who reads the agencies. Almost literally, in the presence of a difficulty in finding and reaching an agreement in the Senate on the electoral law, the President of the Senate declares that, since we do not find an agreement, nothing precludes transferring the matter to the House. I would like to point out that if we do not find an agreement in the Senate, perhaps we should push for the Senate to reach an agreement. It seems to me more complicated to support and share the view that the President of the Senate says, in his role, that the matter is being transferred to the House. Thus, overcoming these anomalies is something that the bestowal of a position made known beforehand to the citizens is of some use if we point out cases of community membership. The last reason has been highlighted, with an opinion opposed to mine, by those who have tabled a motion which - I imagine - will be presented immediately after my speech, when it is claimed that the President of the European Commission who will be given a role far greater than the current President of the European Commission. That is why - and I have concluded, Mr President - Italian citizens are familiar with the direction and orientation of the parties and know it in advance. It is right to say before the vote: I support that candidate, with that programme, rather than the other candidate with a different programme; in fact, if that candidate is chosen by the European Parliament, he will also carry a piece of our national reasons. That is the final and fundamental reason why this motion has the right to citizenship and can be accepted by our Government, with all the consequences that will result, if approved after the parliamentary debate. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE ePD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u38	I call Senator Bisinella to explain motion No 184.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a somewhat detailed speech on the motions before this House today. In particular, the Lega Nord Group considered it necessary to make its own motion. I would like to start by saying at once that, while we share the demands expressed by Mr Nencini on the need for a proper safeguard of the significance of democratic representation, even in the context of the elections to the European Parliament, we do not believe that what the European Commission's recommendation provides for is acceptable. I would like to start with one consideration: the implementation of the Treaties establishing the European Union would require that the representativeness of the peoples of the Member States should be re-examined in general, so that Europe should evolve as a representation of the peoples, with a true sharing of all citizens. I would also like to emphasise that the next European elections in 2014 will be particularly important because for the first time the President of the European Commission will be elected by the European Parliament taking into account the result of the votes. The European Commission's recommendation of March last year, aimed at enhancing efficiency and democracy in the conduct of the European Parliament elections, indicated that national political parties should clearly indicate before and during the elections, already in the election campaign, to which European political party they are affiliated, including by allowing and encouraging the indication of such links on ballots. In addition, political parties should make known which candidate they support to the Presidency of the European Commission. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the European Parliament has not yet given its opinion on this recommendation from the European Commission and that, in fact, the legislation in force for the election of Members of the European Parliament is still the original one, which did not place any constraint on the Member States in relation to the electoral formula, limiting itself to imposing the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage. On the other hand, in another European decision it is expected that: In each Member State, Members of the European Parliament shall be elected by list or preferential single-member vote with proportional vote carried over. There is therefore no special conditioning at Community level other than the adoption of a system whose results are proportional. The indications set out in the European Commission's recommendation do not seem to us to be acceptable or supported by sound logical reasons. Moreover, the indication of who will be the President of the European Commission in our view is serious and seems to be ahead of schedule of an organic reform that requires a thorough and timely debate in the appropriate fora. Not only do we therefore present a motion calling on the Government to commit itself not to transposing the recommendations of the European Commission, but we want to take advantage of the time to report to the House some issues. If we really talk about transparency and maximum representation of the political formations that contribute to the election of the members of the European Parliament, we cannot fail to consider that there is also a problem of representation of political formations present in parts of the national territory, albeit limited, but consisting in quantity of resident population, without thinking of special rules that should apply to those territories where there are political formations representing recognized linguistic minorities. This also leads us to doubt whether the threshold for the election of the European Parliament should be reconsidered, as we believe it to be. Among other things, there is no precise indication of a particular threshold: at European level there is only an indication of a barrier threshold that does not exceed 5% at national level of the votes cast. I would like to remind you that several countries have not introduced any barrier clause; this is the case in the United Kingdom, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark and Luxembourg. In our country, as we all know, the barrier threshold has been set at 4%, as in Sweden and Austria, and Greece has recently considered lowering that threshold to 3%. This must make us really consider the meaning and scope of the need for democratic representation to be guaranteed to the smaller groups as well. On this point, it is worth recalling the ruling of the German Federal Constitutional Court of November 2011, which, partially accepting two individual appeals in the electoral field, with reference to the 5% barrier threshold envisaged in Germany, considered that this threshold should be considered unlawful, as it violates the principle of equality in the right to vote and equal opportunities of political parties. This ruling of the Court is intended precisely to protect political parties and formations representing national minorities. We therefore believe that this question should also be raised by this House, considering the possibility of taking advantage of the opportunity to rethink national legislation, not only in order to review the barrier threshold, but precisely in order to ensure maximum representation for political formations that we have a consistent electoral consensus, albeit concentrated in limited parts of the territory. As a woman elected to Parliament, then, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to ensure that the provisions of Article 51 of the Constitution, which has recently been amended, are fully implemented in order to consider the evolution of our society and our country and to really strengthen the gender balance, in line with the experience of other European countries. Therefore, in motion 184 we ask that the recommendations of the European Commission not be transposed, and instead we call on the Government to promote in the relevant fora, with the regulatory instruments available, the revision of the national legislation for the election of the members of the European Parliament, reconsidering the current barrier threshold, precisely because of the need to protect and give fair representation to the political formations present in limited parts of the territory, where there is significant resident population, which have a substantial electoral consensus, and to promote, in the appropriate fora and with the tools available, also a strengthening of the gender balance, establishing the principle of gender alternation in the case of multiple preference. I believe that a thorough analysis must be carried out on these points by this House, and therefore I would ask colleagues to share it. As women, in particular, I would like to address colleagues on the important step forward in strengthening the principle of gender balance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u42	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a request and discuss it. The subject proposed by the two motions is in fact important and it would be wrong to deconstruct it to a simple question of electoral technique. There is a wider issue under discussion: the issue of European citizenship and how to make this citizenship more active. Mrs Ginetti, speaking in Vilnius in July this year at the meeting of the Presidents of COSAC (the Conference of bodies specialising in Community affairs of the Parliaments of the European Union), rightly stressed the fundamental role of citizens in strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the European Union. In this sense, the citizenship dimension will also have to be expressed by linking the upcoming European political elections in 2014 with the identification of the President of the European Commission, as provided for in the recent recommendation calling on Member States to ensure that national political families are linked to the corresponding European political families, who, in turn, will have to indicate their candidate for the Presidency of the Commission. Only in this way can the internal debate on European political elections actually be Europeanized, otherwise being confined to a mere verification by the political forces at internal level. There is therefore a broad issue, which is to help at this time to sew the rift between citizens and European institutions. From this point of view, therefore, the Democratic Party shares the spirit of the motion tabled by Mr Nencini and agrees with the recommendations made by the European Commission last March, but it is precisely for this reason that it considers it appropriate to ask the proposers for a postponement of the debate to a forthcoming sitting. It is not a simple postponement, but a postponement which, in our view, is useful in order to be able to combine with similar initiatives from other national parliaments, so as to better address the issue - which is not only technical - of membership of a European political party or a political party. There are therefore issues which, in our opinion, can and must be assessed and which take time. It is quite clear, in fact, that an isolated position would not serve at this time to achieve the objectives that Senator Nencini's motion proposes. Therefore, at this stage I repeat the request of the Democratic Party Group to postpone the debate on motions for a subsequent sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u43	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak in the debate on the suspensive issue for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u46	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on the contrary, we believe that we must move forward with the discussion of these documents, as planned last week by the Conference of the Leaders, which I understand has unanimously approved the timetable, certainly with the agreement of the Democratic Party. As these are the only documents on the agenda for today's sitting, I would say that it would be appropriate not to frustrate our presence in this House by moving forward with the debate on these motions. We, as Forza Italia, are in favour of the motion tabled by Senator Nencini, because we believe that, in a context such as that of the European elections and in such a large Parliament, it is essential to tell the voters in which group they are going to place themselves. It is clear that the 20-30 representatives in the European Parliament who, at most, individual parties can hope to elect, count little outside of a context of alliances with parties from other countries. Then, any movement or political entity will be free to say that it does not want to join particular European parties: this may be its particularity, its own way of distinguishing itself. But, in any case, we believe that it is appropriate to move forward and discuss these motions. I would not like this request for postponement to be motivated by the Congress of the Democratic Party, otherwise we would be here talking about the European, national and institutional level and the highest principles, but then everything would be reduced to something ancillary to the celebration of a party congress. We understand that this can cause embarrassment in someone: those in the European Parliament who have not yet found their home because they do not find it, and not because they do not want to look for it, as is the case with others, will be embarrassed. I don't think moving the debate a few days changes the situation. Of course, at that point the Congress of the Democratic Party will have been held, but I believe that first there are the issues concerning the European Union, the Italian Parliament, and then, with all due respect, the Congress of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u49	Olivero (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group takes note of the request made by the Senator of the Democratic Party Group to postpone the debate on the motions which have just been put forward. We cannot fail to express regret at the postponement of a debate and a subsequent decision to give citizens clarity about the choices they will have to make in a few months' time. We are not opposed to this request, but on the sole condition that there is a common commitment (it has been made, but we want to emphasise it strongly) to address this issue in a short time, starting from the next few weeks. I believe that the pauses of reflection are legitimate, legitimate and indeed due party congresses, but it is essential that on such an important subject the curtain does not drop, but we face it in certain times. We believe that this can also help this Parliament to regain its sense of coordinated action in Europe. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u52	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, our Group has the very clear ideas on the motion tabled by Senator Nencini. We know very well where we want to place ourselves in Europe and we are absolutely ready to discuss this motion which seems extremely interesting to us, but as the proposer, Senator Nencini, we return to his assessment. He is the proposer and, as a result, we wish to know from him whether he is willing to postpone the examination by a week or whether he thinks he should discuss it at this time. Our perspective, however, our mission in Europe is very clear: we know where we want to be and we know which European party we would like to join. So, Mr President, for us there is no problem in discussing the motion today or when the Conference of Leaders wants to put it on the agenda again, but the proposer, Senator Nencini, must tell us exactly what he wants to do with the motion on this day. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u55	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I hope that, in addition to knowing where to stay in the European Parliament, we will also know what project and what programme to join for Europe, but that is another reason. We think it is useful to postpone the debate, also because we believe that it is necessary, among other things, to deepen a number of issues that are absolutely fundamental if we are to really discuss Europe. I would also like to remind you of the German Federal Constitutional Court's ruling on the nature of the European elections and its reference to the European Commission's recommendation to the fact that the representation of the various cultures and political expressions should be ensured within the European Parliament. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary and appropriate to postpone this issue even further, as well as the issue of gender preference. I would like to point out that these elections are the only ones in which the rule of gender preference is not applied. These two issues, which are certainly not just a few, are enough to convince me of the need for a decision, which is up to the Leaders, to see when to update the discussion of the motions presented, with further details, especially on the issues highlighted. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u58	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I express some hesitation about certain positions. I thought I belonged to a political area and a coalition with clear ideas about it. If there is a need for a technical upgrade, it is necessary to be aware that there are technical requirements that would impose a certain speed, the delay (within fifteen days) can be accepted. If, on the other hand, the postponement is based on a still uncertain atmospheric situation, to use a euphemism, then frankly it becomes a problem. I hope that the requests for referral will be due to the willingness to address this issue in a short time (a couple of weeks) during which any subsequent instruments of operational fulfilment can be developed because, if we approve motion 113, we must leave room for the Government to prepare all the necessary technical elements. From this point of view, also on behalf of Senator Nencini, we manifest our willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u61	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I turn to the signatories, to my fellow Members, Mr Nencini and Mr Buemi, to say that the problems are others: they are not related to the adoption of the motion, but to its content. I see that the act is also signed by Senators Lumia, Sposetti and other members of the Democratic Party, such as Senator Casson. You write: "Printers of this Act of Guideline (...) formally and/or ideally adhere to the Party of European Socialism". On this point I disagree because it is the post-Communist European party. I have already said the other day in a speech which I shall address to the Court of Human Rights because the Communists cannot adhere to a socialist structure, because they have no title because of the evils they have done. And the story is full of documentation that testifies to what I'm saying. And, however, this is a matter relating to the Congress of the Democratic Party, because those who are candidates for the secretariat are not said to want to join the European Socialist Party: perhaps, they can win someone who wants to join the European Peoples Party. The ideas are still confusing, but we are to move forward today. Of course, the curse of Bettino Craxi is taking its course: in order not to become socialists, the communists are dying Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u64	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement has deepened the content of the motion proposed by Senator Nencini, as well as that of the motion tabled by the League. We have expressed our doubts about the two documents and we agree that there is a need for further study for some main reasons, first of all the fact that the recommendation of the European Commission is extremely complex, acceptable in some parts and not acceptable in others. We therefore believe that it is right to postpone the debate in such a way that we can propose an answer that is as satisfactory as possible, precisely with a view to accepting all the indications that we think are logical and common sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bruno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u65	Colleagues, we must proceed with the vote on the proposal to postpone the debate on motions. Having verified positions that are not entirely consistent, we shall vote on this proposal with the electronic system without registering names. Therefore, I put to the vote, by electronic procedure without registration of names, the suspensive question, presented by Senator Fornaro. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. The date for further discussion of motions will then be set by the Conference of Leaders. Colleagues, awaiting the decisions of the Conference of Leaders, convened at 6 p.m., I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.47 p.m. and resumed at 7.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u66	Let's resume our work. The Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable until 23 December. Tomorrow's afternoon sitting will be devoted to voting for the election of the members of the Commission for the supervision of the Deposit and Loan Fund. In relation to the timing of transmission by the House of Deputies of the decree-law extending international missions, the House will not be sitting tomorrow afternoon to allow the work of the Commissions. The discussion in the Assembly of the decree-law will take place from the afternoon sitting on Thursday. In view of the imminent expiry of the measure, the timetable also includes voting sessions on Thursday afternoons and, if necessary, on Fridays. Next week's schedule provides for the examination of the decree-law on the rebalancing of public finance and immigration and of the decree-law on financial measures for the regions and local authorities. At the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 11, at 4 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers' communications will take place. For the ensuing debate, which could end with a vote of confidence, the timing was divided between the groups. In the afternoon of Thursday 12 December, at 4 p.m., with direct television broadcast, the question time will take place with the Minister for Economic Development. In the week from 17 to 19 December, in addition to the possible follow-up of the decree-law concerning financial measures for the Regions and local authorities, the decree-law IMU and Banca d'Italia will be discussed. The timetable also provides for the examination of ratifications of international agreements concluded by the Foreign Commissions, as well as documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Finally, the Conference of Leaders noted that, according to the current timetable, the House of Deputies should conclude the examination of financial documents by Friday 20 December. Where amended by the Chamber of Deputies and subject to the different terms that could be communicated in relation to the transmission times, the Permanent Commissions shall submit their reports to the Budget Committee by 1 p.m. on Saturday 21 December. The 5th Permanent Commission will report to the Assembly at its meeting on Monday 23 December. I communicate to the Assembly that document XXII No 3 has been reassigned unanimously by the Conference of Leaders to the deliberative session, and that it is the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u67	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting this afternoon, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes and additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of the Assembly until 23 December 2013: [[Wednesday 4 December ant. h. 9,30 - Vote for the election of 4 actual members and 4 alternates of the Commission for the supervision of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (Wednesday 4) (*) (**) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 114, extension of international missions (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 9 December) Thursday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 15 Friday 6" ant. 9.30 a.m. (if necessary) (*) At the opening of the afternoon session on Wednesday 4 December the call of the Senators will be made. Each Senator will receive a card indicating the names of three Senators as actual members and three alternates. (**) The Shareholders' Meeting will not be held on the afternoon of Wednesday 4 December to allow the Commissions to examine Decree-Law No 114, which extends international missions. Amendments to draft law No... (Decree-Law No 114, extension of international missions) must be tabled by 7 p.m. on Wednesday 4 December.]] [[Tuesday, December 10 pom. h.16,30-20,30 - Drawing of law n. 1174 - Decree-Law n. 120, rebalancing of public finance and immigration (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 14 December) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers (Wednesday 11, pm.) - Drawing of law n. 1149 - Decree-Law n. 126, financial measures Regions and Local Authorities (Scade on 30 December) Wednesday 11 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16 Thursday 12 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 12 December pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Economic Development]] Amendments to draft law No 1174 (Decree-Law No 120, Rebalancing of Public Finance and Immigration) and No 1149 (Decree-Law No 126, Financial Measures Regions and Local Authorities) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 6 December. [[Tuesday, December 17 pom. h.16,30-20,30 - Possible follow-up to bill n. 1149 - Decree-Law n. 126, financial measures Regions and local authorities (Scade on 30 December) - Drawing of law n. 1188 - Decree-Law n. 133, IMU and Banca d'Italia (Final vote by 1 January 2014) (Scade on 29 January 2014) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Commission - Documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20,30 Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 19 December pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 1188 (Decree-Law No 133, IMU and Banca d'Italia) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 16 December. [[Monday, 23 December ant. h. 10 - Drawings of law no. 1120-B and 1121-B - Stability Act 2014 and Budget Act 2014-2016 (Approved by the Senate) (Ove amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final votes with the presence of the quorum)]] As soon as the draft law has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies no. 1120-B and 1121-B (Stability Law 2014 and Budget Act 2014-2016) will be immediately referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. Without prejudice to the different deadlines which could be communicated in relation to the timing of the transmission of financial documents by the House of Deputies, the Permanent Commissions will have to submit their reports to the Budget Committee by 1 p.m. on Saturday 21 December; the 5th Permanent Commission will report to the Assembly at its meeting on Monday 23 December. Amendments to the draft financial and budgetary legislation will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Sunday 22 December. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 114, extension of international missions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 07' FI-PdL XVII 45' M5S 40' NCD 31' SCp 26' LN-Aut 24' Mixed 24' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1174 (Decree-Law No 120, Rebalancing of Public Finance and Immigration) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 07' FI-PdL XVII 45' M5S 40' NCD 31' SCp 26' LN-Aut 24' Mixed 24' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers (2 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[PD 27' FI-PdL XVII 18' M5S 16' NCD 12' SCpI 10' LN-Aut 10' Mixed 10' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 9' GAL 8' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1149 (Decree-Law No 126, financial measures Regions and local authorities) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 07' FI-PdL XVII 45' M5S 40' NCD 31' SCp 26' LN-Aut 24' Mixed 24' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1188 (Decree-Law No 133, IMU and Banca d'Italia) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. 03' M5S 56' NCD 44' SCp 36' LN-Aut 34' Mixed 34' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 30' GAL 29' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 1120-B and 1121-B (Stability 2014 and Budget 2014-2016) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 1 h. Minority Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 2 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 07' FI-PdL XVII 45' M5S 40' NCD 31' SCP 26' LN-Aut 24' Mixed 24' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u70	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking to amplify the voice of some Abruzzo citizens, of the Pesca and of the Chietino, who, after two days of abundant rain, wonder whether two days of autumn rain can justify landslides, landslides, roads that turn into streams or even dead under a overpass. More exceptional than the amount of rain falling there appears the race "Alerts the citizen," to which our local administrators of every order and grade participated, committed to spreading weather forecasts, school closing orders, closure of roads, evacuation of shopping malls and, last but not least, advice on the best way to go in case you were forced to leave home. It comes from wondering where it is born for municipal councillors and mayors all this interest in the meteorology and the hydrogeological solidity of our territory, given their total latency in the past years. Where were they all when the regulatory plans were approved? When was it possible to build residential neighborhoods along the banks of the rivers? When it was possible to build a shopping center - Megalò - in an area known to be at hydrogeological risk. Our grandparents already told us that. Another question arises spontaneously: where are our administrators today that continue to carry out the project of realization, in the same area, of two other major malls, Megalò 2 and Megalò 3? Will they finally want to start preventing any damage, at least those easily predictable? Or perhaps we citizens will have to wait a few more years and then see three of the malls evacuated and not one, as has happened in recent days? Environmental associations and technicians have always been clear on the point: the Megalò shopping center (well 52,000 square meters of concrete), built in the middle of a loop and natural expansion chest of the Pescara river, has upset the hydraulic regime of the main Abruzzo watercourse. So much so that the extraordinary commissioner for the rehabilitation of the Aterno-Pescara basin, Adriano Goio, hypothesized until the day before yesterday new and very expensive interventions for other expansion boxes in place of those occupied. Who knows what he's gonna hypothesize from now on? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. CASTALDI (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that the time is ripe and that the mayor of Chieti, above all, and the Councillors and advisors must all take a firm and definitive position on this matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u73	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, crimes against the environment are crimes against humanity in two respects: the offense to the wonders of creation and the victims of human-generated environmental disasters. This is still what we have witnessed in these days in Sardinia, Calabria, Abruzzo and, to a less tragic extent, in other regions, including the Marches, as a macabre repetition of facts and errors that every time, with miscelated hypocrisy, we declare that we no longer want to see or repeat. However, effective interventions, corrective actions, relative investments fade away, and you have the impression that for some administrators the mandate, even if starting with the best intentions, is exhausted in a pedissequa and unaware application of technicalisms and abstract constraints not functional to a more appropriate and forward-looking vision able to respond to present and future needs. "Adda passes to nuttata" would say Eduardo. In my city, Fabriano, we see something that has incredible. Deeply offended by the earthquake of 1997 and even more today by a heavy phenomenon of deindustrialization, with serious occupational, economic and social consequences, we have been guilty of a disaster that has lasted for more than 50 years: the shameful use of the Giano river, heraldic symbol and identity of the city, around which Fabriano has been born and raised and which still today crosses its historical centre, as sewer and tombstone in the worst forms of concrete. Now, thanks to the possibility of funding received by Law No. 61 of 1998, there is finally an opportunity to free it and cleanse it with the realization of a sewage collector that will be able to return to the waters their primitive health. Here, however, the sleep of reason stands as a director and the hand of a Attila "de noantri" rises against what should have been a logical and healthy peace with nature. A very particular theorem has been devised, according to which, in order to protect the houses and people living near the river, it would be necessary to resort again, after the waiting cover, to a concrete covering jet, on which - just to overdo - to create a parking space for 50 cars. It doesn't matter if the models of the most virtuous cities suggest to free historic centers from traffic and its polluting emissions. Nothing affects the awareness now universally acquired on the determining and aggravating role typical of the covering and cementing of the banks of the rivers in unleashing so many tragedies, from which we should have obtained a sense at least a posteriori. It doesn't matter if committees of citizens, cultural and environmental associations have collected so many signatures to avoid tombing; nor have they had the weight of advanced and high skills in the field asked. The pseudo-state reason... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u74	Senator, the time at your disposal is over: you had three minutes. You may deliver the text in order to be annexed to the Report. FUCKSIA (M5S). I turn over the text of the speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u77	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to read you the letter I received from a colleague, engineer Vincenzo Triunfo, whom I share as if I had written it. Attack to the future! As was intended to be demonstrated by the amendments that were accepted by the Budget Committee which wanted the Ecobonus to remain stable until 2020, tabled by various political forces and necessary to give certainty and continuity to companies investing in this sector, companies that produce wealth and jobs, have been rejected. At the same time, paragraph 99 of the maxi amendment gave a backdrop to renewable energy. Yes, while Europe and the whole world at every longitude and latitude try to project themselves into an imminent future of energy supply needs, we who have little energy (if nothing, except that which nature gives us through the sun, the wind and the earth), direct our economic and legislative efforts towards those who produce energy in an inefficient way or not compatible with the surrounding conditions in which our country is located. It almost seems that, on a ship that sinks for too much weight, to lighten it, instead of getting rid of the things that are not useful, we throw down the children, that is the future. I realize that a strategy of salvation for the past (fossil sources and large utilities) is necessary, but certainly not through the ratio of killing children, which in this case are energy efficiency and renewable sources. There is no doubt that currently and for many years still the energy mix will be crucial, at least until renewables with accumulations and smart grids can survive with their legs. But, the inexorable change from what the world was conceived as a single flow of energy that went from large power plants to utilities to what we currently see existing in our country, with hundreds of thousands of distributed generation plants, is now a reality and is also, most likely, one of the few choices of energy supply and security - if not the only one - that our country can carry on from here to the end of the century. We have said no to nuclear power twice; we have invested heavily on renewables and, every year, to do this, we Italians have self-taxed paying about 7 billion euros so that these technologies can be competitive and can reach the goals of grid parity as soon as possible; we want to live in a country free from lobby logic and free from the idea of having to secure an energy future by conquering territories and plundering the planet. The propensity towards environmental sustainability is now widespread: just recall what President ISPO said, highlighting how the results on green reputation show that in 92 percent of cases the consumer appreciates the entrepreneur engaged in the recovery and reuse of waste, in 91 percent of cases he says to grant his preferences to companies using renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u78	Senator, your time has expired, but you can deliver the text of your speech so that it is annexed to the shorthand report of today's sitting. NUGNES (M5S). All right, Mr President, I'll attach the rest of the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-145.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, December 4, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.15 p.m.
