ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.37 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 7 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.41).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic, by decree dated 30 August 2013, appointed senators for life, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 59 of the Constitution, Master Claudio Abbado, for having illustrated the Homeland with very high merits in the artistic and social field, Professor Elena Cattaneo, for having illustrated the Homeland with very high merits in the scientific and social field, architect Renzo Piano, for having illustrated the Homeland with very high merits in the artistic and social field, Professor Carlo Rubbia, for having illustrated the Homeland with very high merits in the scientific and social field. On behalf of my staff and the Senate Assembly, I extend the most cordial and warm welcome to our distinguished colleagues, Senator Elena Cattaneo, Senator Renzo Piano and Senator Carlo Rubbia. [[The Assembly stands. Live applause.]] Senator Claudio Abbado has announced that, despite him, he will not be able to take part in today's sitting because of an indisposition. With the hope of a speedy recovery, I would also like to congratulate him on his appointment as a member of this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00029, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, 1-00095, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00128, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, 1-00134, presented by Senator Piccoli and other senators, 1-00137, presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators, and 1-00138, presented by Senator Cioffi and other senators, on the risks of hydrogeological failure. I remember that in the afternoon sitting there was an illustration of the motions and the debate. Following the conclusion of the debate, the continuation of the examination of motions has therefore been postponed. I therefore call upon the State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Land and the Sea, Dr Cyril, to give an opinion on the motions submitted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u6	Mr President, I was actually expecting the presentation of a single text. If an agenda has been drawn up for this, I could give an overall opinion rather than articulate a number of opinions on the individual motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u7	Mr Undersecretary, at this very moment the communication has arrived that a unitary agenda has been presented, signed by Senators Vaccari, Bruni, Dalla Zuanna, Arrigoni, De Petris, Panizza, Compagnone and others. At the same time, all motions, with the exception of motion 138, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u8	Mr President, may I have a confirmation that the text of the unitary agenda is what I have just received? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, undersecretary Cyril. Do you need a few minutes to examine him? CIRILLO, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. No, Mr President, if the text is what I have already received. The G1 agenda is welcome in its entirety, in the sense that the Government is not only well aware of the importance of addressing this issue in a programmatory spirit, but also welcomes the fact that a unified intention has been found to propose incentives to the Government to act in the sense of a correct programming of finding resources and of everything that can lead to a constructive approach to this great problem. The unitary agenda is therefore accepted by the Government. On the other hand, as regards motion 138, again on the same subject, at the first signature of Senator Cioffi, it can be accepted provided that some rewordings are made concerning some points of the device. In paragraph 12, which begins with the words 'proceeding to bureaucratic simplification', it is requested to replace the current wording with the words 'promoting forms of bureaucratic simplification'. In paragraph 14, it is requested to replace the words "to take the appropriate measures" by the following "to consider whether the appropriate measures should be taken." Similarly, in paragraph 15, it is requested to replace the words "to provide for appropriate contributions to financing" by the following "to assess the appropriateness of providing appropriate contributions to financing": Finally, in paragraph 16, it is requested to replace the words "incentive" with the following "incentive." The opinion in favour of motion 138 is subject to the above rewordings for paragraphs 12, 14, 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u9	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u12	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, as far as this sensitive subject is concerned, the Group for the Italian Independents and Socialist Party will vote in favour of the G1 agenda. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the motions that we have addressed today - and I insist very much on this - are of considerable importance, because most of them, presented by the various groups, have made an important contribution - I believe all of them - not only in photographing the situation, so everything that has happened in our country and the problems related to the risk of hydrogeological disruption, to poor management and to the absolutely wrong choices that have continually put our territory at risk, but I also believe in stressing (I hope in this frankly, because I would not like it to be a debate that from tomorrow onwards we forget) that what has been written in the motions, the commitments that have been tried in each of us to put in charge of the government and those that the government is taking on, are actually a turning point. In fact, this country needs, in a very clear and precise way, a radical change in the field of soil protection. It is no longer time for small adjustments, it is no longer time to take time; clear and precise choices must be made. We must adopt a strategy, remembering that our territorial system, our rivers, our landscape and our soil are a common good and - I would like to remind you once again - a good that is also protected from the constitutional point of view. On this, therefore, we must be consistent today, at a time when a number of commitments are being made. As a SEL member of the Mixed Group, we have tabled a motion, as is well known, and we agree today, appreciating the effort that all the Groups are trying to make, on the unitary agenda. However, we would like to stress a number of points that are particularly important to us. I am referring first of all to the close connection between measures to secure and protect the soil. Here we need a change, also of cultural attitude, on what is now an absolute priority and an emergency, closely linked to the issue of soil protection: I am referring to the issue of soil consumption. We have therefore explicitly asked on the agenda to include, among the Government's commitments and therefore also among the House's commitments, the call for legislative proposals as soon as possible and for the adoption of rules that pursue in a serious and consistent way - in order to achieve the objective of zero soil consumption - the precise, clear and strong containment of soil consumption, which has reached unsustainable levels. There is another fundamental issue that we would like to stress. Action is needed to completely change what has been the strategy to date, a non-strategy that has meant that for every billion invested in prevention 100 have been spent to repair all the damage, intervening in emergency. Precisely the change of strategy and the consideration of the security and the protection of the ground as the country's priority work also means making a clear and precise economic choice that will yield, and will yield much more in terms of employment. Some of us remember that in this morning's debate: if we compare the number of jobs developed for a large infrastructure project and those that could arise - these are numbers we already have - from the small and medium-sized works of intervention for safety, there is no comparison. This means that it is a strong investment in employment, at a time of crisis like this, and a major employment crisis. We have also called for a precise reference and commitment to a kind of youth plan for maintenance, which is equally crucial. It is also important to involve reclamation consortia (this item is on the agenda), which today can play a fundamental role even if they are right and included in a more general and coordinated governance. Finally, I hope that this country has finished once and for all with urban derogations. I repeat again that there has not only been abuse in the areas of exondation: there has also been legal cement. Just look at the latest data. It is therefore necessary to say once and for all a clear word about the fact: I hope that this House will fully agree on this point. It will be necessary to close once and for all with the attempts, which have also been made recently, to carry out other sanatories. Abbusivism has been a scourge for this country of ours. It is necessary to end once and for all with the urban derogations, which have allowed, even with the approval of hydrogeological plans, to continue to issue permits to build in dangerous areas. We saw the data this morning: there is almost 10% of the national territory that is at risk. I would like to remind the Secretary for the Environment that this issue cannot be dealt with only in the dimension of soil failure and defence. We need to know clearly that extreme events will increase in our country, because climate change data are important and heavy, and so we need to put in place not only the multi-annual plan, not only the soil protection fund and therefore allocate adequate resources, but we need to remember that we need to have a coherent policy to combat climate change. This is an issue that we absolutely must not underestimate, and I would like to mention it here in this House, because in the last legislature in the Senate - alas - even a motion was adopted that denied climate change. I think the data is before everyone's eyes today. They are increasingly alarming and our territory, as we know, is already particularly fragile for all the reasons we have discussed so far. The question of resources is a very important one: we had asked for a multiannual plan; we hope that at least the fund established can be strengthened and that the appropriate resources can be allocated. Finally, in announcing the vote in favour of the agenda G1, I raise another issue that concerns all the works: there is a list that now includes more than 300 works, CIPE resolutions that come from the objective law, and I think it is time to choose which are the priorities for our country over the works. Let us not forget then, once these motions have been approved and the debate on hydrogeological failure has been exhausted, to start again tomorrow as if nothing had happened. Today we take on a solemn commitment (I address myself to the Government): to consider the land defense works and the security of our territory as a priority for the country. We owe it to our country, also to preserve its beauty, and remember how many human lives it has cost, among other things, not having adopted coherent policies over the years and not having allocated adequate resources. I would like us to remember this always: we cannot relegate environmental and soil protection issues to the black news, so the next day the misfortunes are discussed and after 48 hours all political decision-makers forget completely. I hope that today's debate will really be a turning point from this point of view. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u18	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both in the previous legislature and in this Parliament, debates and discussions have been held which have highlighted a disastrous reality of the country in relation to the phenomena of hydrogeological failure. A real national emergency, certainly linked to the particular conformation of the territory, but above all to the anthropization of the same, to the abandonment of the mountain soils, to the building often abusive and sometimes also irresponsably authorized in the areas at risk of landslide, of landslide and of exondation. An emergency also connected to deforestation, to the lack of cleanliness of the woods, the maintenance of the slopes and the streams. The consequences of exposure to risk have been and continue to be dramatic, both in terms of loss of human lives and in terms of environmental and economic damage, which require substantial resources to be able to deal with them. In the last legislature important steps have been taken to define, in agreement with the Regions, a plan to fight the hydrogeological disruptions, unfortunately without concrete results, despite the allocation of almost 2.5 billion euros from the State and the Regions. On the part of the previous Government, strategic guidelines for the adaptation plan to climate change, sustainable management and land-use security have also been attempted, but in fact these have not yet been put into practice. The essential emergency plan concerns the establishment of a district basin authority and the prohibition of use for residential and productive purposes or for services and infrastructure of the R4 classified areas (very high hydrological risk area), until the adoption of preventive measures by the competent administrations. The problem is that in order to implement this plan of protection of the territory we need a lot of money: 40 billion has been estimated for fifteen years, with about 2.5 billion per year. But it is not enough: we need a qualitative leap and the awareness that the environment is a primary asset that must be protected and for which we must invest. However, it is clear that if we do not proceed as soon as possible to carry out a comprehensive plan for the prevention and security of the territory, in addition to losing further credibility compared to other countries (and perhaps also aid from the European Union for non-transposition of the relevant directives), it will be increasingly difficult and unsustainable to cope with the actions of compensation and reconstruction of works destroyed or damaged as a result of damage caused by natural disasters. According to the Group of the North League, precise commitments are needed by the Government to return a national fund to finance an organic programme in the field of soil protection and prevention of hydrogeological disruptions, thus giving priority to the logic of prevention compared to that of emergency management. Of course, immediate action is needed to finance and address the situations at the highest hydrogeological risk to safeguard the safety of the environmental and cultural heritage, but also the infrastructures that are strategic for development, avoiding, however, centralized systems of management of interventions and using the principle of subsidiarity, capable of positively involving municipalities, provinces and regions, as well as agricultural and forestry enterprises. As Minister Orlando also pointed out in the presentation of his policy lines on 25 June, the resources already foreseen in the previous legislature must be unblocked following the programme agreements signed with the regions for priority interventions to prevent the breakdown. It is also necessary to take all possible initiatives to exclude from the constraints of the Pact of internal stupidity the resources that the Municipalities and the Regions devote to the interventions of prevention and maintenance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It should also be emphasized and stressed that the real connoisseurs of the state of health of the territory and of the related need for action for the safety and prevention of the dangers arising from natural disasters are the local administrators. It is therefore appropriate to put the directors themselves and their volunteers at the centre of the activities related to the identification, preparation and execution of mitigation actions for the purpose recorded. A revision of the rules in force in the field of prevention and the fight against hydrogeological failure is therefore necessary, eliminating the provisions which, in fact, make the procedures for the implementation of the interventions and the allocation of the resources themselves cumbersome. All the motions put forward by the Groups, although characterized by their own approach and sensitivity, agree in the analysis of the problem, on the need to act quickly on some fundamental and strategic points and on various proposals to address the problems on a preventive basis and with concrete funding. Inevitable - and therefore positive - is the effort made to reach a single document shared that, in addition to spurring, will facilitate the activity and decisions of the Government, the Ministry and Minister Orlando, but to which we ask to do something more besides the establishment of a fund of 10 million euros in favour of the municipalities in order to help eliminate abusive buildings built in high-risk areas. Basically, at the moment a premium to administrators who have not monitored and controlled what was happening on their territory. I therefore declare the North League Group's vote in favour of the joint agenda presented. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u21	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Mr President, I will use my ten minutes in full because I believe that this is a very important issue. The motions, on which an intense debate was started in the morning, are part of a parliamentary and regulatory path that - although broad - has not yet led to any real results, as, unfortunately, the current situation continues to confirm. The question or, better, the problem of the protection of the territory and the fight against hydrogeological failure re-emerge in a cyclical way to the attention of the Country, with the inevitable emergency follow-up that this entails and that, in fact, seems to want to legitimize a form of circumvention of any plan of programmatic and forward-looking intervention. I'm deliberately critical. This unfortunately seems to want to confirm that the fight against hydrogeological failure is not a priority for this country, although good intentions, following calamitous events, seem to testify anything else. By covering the budgetary constraints, in fact, we continue not to give priority to the policies of preventive maintenance of the territory aimed at preventing calamitous events. Often faced with a tragedy, so to speak environmental, what emerges is the lack of a clear responsibility, accompanied by controversy towards this or that entity. And we always return to the atavistic faults of the country: absence of infrastructural investments aimed at the maintenance of the areas at risk, to which is added the failure to apply the norms in the matter of the fight against the abusivism building. This is combined with a certain - let me say - administrative nonsense that makes the whole thing even more complex. The calamitous events that have followed in recent years in Italy have pointed out to the whole country that there are no risk-free zones, almost confirming the fact that in Italy, well before any failure to intervene or bad practice, there is a widespread culture of illegality. The drama of these months underlines the weakness of the Italian territory, combined with the obvious managerial and administrative weakness of our country in safeguarding the territory. As is repeatedly repeated in the motions of all groups, soil is an irreproducible and essential good that must be protected, precisely because it is linked to ecological processes that, if affected, can compromise the balance of biodiversity and the environment. In fact, from the climate change we are witnessing and the awareness that the impacts they cause are destined to grow exponentially, the need to address environmental problems comes from new and appropriate instruments based on just as adequate and certain economic resources. But in Italy, in addition to the technical problems, there are also and above all strong administrative limits, legitimized by showy budget cuts made towards the Ministry of the Environment, which in the last four years would amount to about 90% of the availability. I myself have denounced him in various parliamentary acts in the last parliamentary term. In 2009 it was announced the take-off of the extraordinary plan to fight the hydrogeological failure and the promise by the then government of about 2.5 billion to finance it; it was resources oriented to the safety of the most endangered areas. Let us not forget that in the August 2011 manoeuvre, however, 500 million funds were cut for the prevention of hydrogeological failure. In the 2011 law of stability amounted to about 6 billion euros the cuts made by the then Government to the Ministry of the Environment, with the risk of frustrating every project or initiative oriented to the protection of the environment and emptying in fact the utility of the same Dicastery. We have seen in Italy the consolidation of the philosophy of cutting and sewing, where the indiscriminate and irrational cuts that result from announced and avoidable tragedies, is accompanied by an almost chic emergency management with the rapid supply of resources, the same ones that, provided in due time, combined with greater lucidity by the administrators, would certainly have prevented the emergency itself. At a stage like this, over-pochism should be replaced by the functional rationality of local authorities. We had hoped that with the national plan for adaptation to climate change and territorial security, presented by Minister Clini to CIPE last December, it would be possible to take a step forward. But right now, the plan stays on standby, apparently due to lack of resources. The plan defines the guidelines and measures to prevent the risks and damage to which the country is increasingly exposed; it also responds to our country's commitment in the context of the European directive on floods. The plan provides for 2.5 billion per year of investments, of which 1 billion public resources and 1.5 billion private resources facilitated by tax credit. Public investment in the implementation of the plan should be freed from the constraint of the Stability Pact, in implementing the criterion - shared by the European Commission, among other things - that adaptation to climate change should be a structural measure for growth. And the agenda presented together with my colleague Dalla Zuanna to Decree-Law No. 43, so-called environmental emergencies decree, and accepted by the Government last May, is in this direction. The Government has undertaken to consider the possibility of preparing, following the successful conclusion of the excessive deficit procedure, measures to allow the derogation from the rules of the Internal Stability Pact for expenditure incurred by the regions and local authorities for payments relating to investments in the prevention and security of the territory and public buildings. This Government is demonstrating pragmatism, as well as a valid continuity with what has been done by the Monti Government, must follow up on the commitments already undertaken and transform them into operational plans that are truly feasible. It must transform policies to combat hydrogeological failure from ancillary to priority. It seems appropriate to recall that Premier Letta, in his address to the Chambers on 29 April, stressed that we have a commitment to prevention with extraordinary maintenance plans against hydrogeological failure and the fight against abuse, thus placing the emphasis on a renewed commitment to these issues. I would further like to point out that, in the wake of what the Monti Government has done, it is possible to recover valid initiatives and activities, capable of renewing this commitment of the Government. In fact, it is worth remembering that last September 2012, the then Minister of Agricultural Policies Catania had presented a draft framework law on the valorization of agricultural areas and the containment of land consumption, born precisely from the need to stop the phenomenon of cementification in our country. In this perspective we remember that Minister Orlando in recent days has introduced a bill containing measures aimed at making easier the removal and demolition of works and buildings carried out abusively in areas characterized by high hydrogeological risk. For 2013 there is an appropriation of 10 million euros for those municipalities that ask for resources aimed at the removal of abusive buildings, thus allowing a simplification of the dynamics of design and implementation of the actions to secure the areas at risk. In this scenario, the motions under discussion are certainly a further step forward to ensure that these issues are placed urgently on the national political agenda with a general and shared assumption of responsibility on the part of all parliamentary forces. The aim is therefore to aim for an integrated resource programme, which will make the national plan for adaptation to climate change and territorial security workable, renewing it and adapting it to the calamitous circumstances that have emerged in recent months. It is essential, at this stage, to allocate resources for the security and redevelopment of the territory, which absolutely cannot fail to define an organic plan for the management, prevention and defence of the territory as well as for the monitoring and local control of the different and articulated territorial specificities. Therefore, aware of the urgent and indisputable nature of this renewed commitment to the country and having full confidence in the work of Minister Orlando and of the whole Government, I declare the favorable vote of the Civic Choice Group on the unitary agenda. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u24	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, this morning there was talk of hydrogeological disruption and a number of things have been said. We can complete the speech by adding something else. To give an example of what has been done over many years I would like to remind you that the Garigliano nuclear power plant (I come from the Campania region) was built in the bend of a river, in an area of exondation. It is, therefore, very interesting what happens and has happened over the years. But we can also talk about the city of Genoa, the only metropolitan city that rises in a high-risk area (we have been reminded of recent events). Moreover, I would like to point out that the hydrogeological diction is wrong because the failure is water (due to full events) and geological (due to landslide events). So I think sometimes we should remember what the correct vocabulary is. How do we deal with all these things? As we have already mentioned in other circumstances, we think that the most important thing is to realize so many small works. Rather than making great works, great things with great use of resources, we could realize many small works, obviously within the framework of a general programming (the one contained in the basin plans), therefore consistent with an overall vision (not rain finance), because many small works produce much more work. Realizing so many small works we put into operation a widespread economy, also because many small works make work maybe local businesses, local professionals and therefore allows people to resume to work. This can also be done through maintenance. Maintenance is a wonderful work. We often forget this, but maintenance should be the first thing to do. In fact, if you have so many things not doing maintenance these may not work anymore well. By extrapolating the concept, just to give an example, if Pompeii had done some maintenance, perhaps a collapse would have been avoided. In short, from a general point of view, maintenance is essential. In specific terms, in our motion we tried to do something different, we tried to identify specific points. The theme of the hydrogeological failure, indeed of the water and geological failure, is very wide but we must start to have the courage to tell the government where to intervene, otherwise we cannot define what we must do. On an agenda or on a motion it is impossible to write down all the things we have to do. However, we could start surgery on the points that we need to change. What we have tried to do with our motion is to identify some points in which to intervene by giving the government also technical-normative support. Why don't we start intervening on these things? There are many points on which to intervene, of course, but in this way Parliament is reappropriating its functions with general declarations of intent, but at the same time specifying what must be done (otherwise, we are always talking about general intentions) by delegation to the Government of the implementation phase. In this way, by saying what we want, we recover our function. This is what we tried to do with our motion. The agenda signed by everyone with the exception of our Group is very acceptable in the general parts (on the other hand on a subject so well known how do you not collect sharing?), but then it is lost in the part relating to commitments. This is what led us not to withdraw our motion. For example, there is talk of countering legislative initiatives to facilitate sanatories or urban derogations. Nice. It was enough to write - because in Italian it is clearer - that they do not condon themselves and that what is abusive is destroyed. Italian is a beautiful language because it allows us to be clear and defined, otherwise we continue to use an unclear language. We like clear language because we are direct people and we want people to understand; instead, if we write in this way, we use what we used to call political when we were outside. We still don't want politics. We are also talking about civil protection. Great. We're talking about how to get it back on track, changing the rules. Here too I wonder how and what to change, because when we talk about civil protection we have to remember that there was an era, the famous was Bertolaso, where civil protection has done much more than it had to do. Then there is the part about insurance from natural risks. Insurance is something that all citizens can do: if they want, a citizen or a condo is assured. Since I have heard that there is no chance of making sure, I would like to say that I have been, almost ten years ago, in Afghanistan with Emergency; I have been doing my volunteering, rather than cooperating, and I was assured against the risks of war: it was 2003, two years after Massoud's killing. And if they've insured me, a cooperative, for war risks, I think it's possible to secure a house in a risky area. "Evaluating the opportunity to do this is a good expression, but in this case we consider the opportunity to ensure, so let's give the citizens the power to make sure. Here too, however, let us leave the door open a little, because if we tell citizens to think about making sure, I wonder if this insurance will become compulsory. Do we want to put in compulsory insurance on areas at risk? What about the seismic risk? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And how much does this cost the citizens? What are we gonna do, then? I don't know, maybe we don't want to do this, but why stay with the doubt? We wouldn't want to have that doubt, so we eliminate it. Therefore, of course we agree with the premise of the G1 agenda, which is written very well, but since the next part of the provisions is written a little 'politically, leaves the doors open to everything and does not make decisions on certain specific points, we will abstain. As far as our motion No 138 is concerned, we welcome the rewording that the Government has requested of us. Maybe it would have been desirable to have more courage, perhaps on point 16) where we ask to write to consider the opportunity of "defying" where we talk about active and sustainable forest management. In short, it is about forest management; I realize that there are financial commitments, but we would have wanted something more; but we are content, because in our motion there are specific points where we ask to intervene, and it is interesting to think of helping the government. We'd like to help the government figure out where to intervene. This is our little wish, which is great because in this way we are helping the government to do what it has to do, namely to carry out Parliament's will. It is good to think that the government does the will of us parliamentarians, why else the government that it has to do? Does he decide? And what do we do, ratify his decisions? And when do we regain our ability to choose? We want to choose, we want to decide once and for all to choose? To choose, in fact, means to please someone and displease someone else, but the task of politics is to have the courage to choose. So we ask you to vote in favour of motion 138. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u27	BRUNI (PdL). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda we have discussed and which was also explained in the intervention of the Undersecretary, the Government is asked to launch a new policy of prevention and mitigation of hydrogeological risk in our country. This requirement is motivated, as we have heard today, first of all from the data, which we have heard several times, but which should be repeated: 6.633 Italian municipalities reappear in their territory areas at risk of hydrogeology; over 5 million Italian citizens are exposed to the danger of landslides and floods; the surface of the Italian territory with high hydrogeological criticality is equal to almost 30,000 square kilometers, or one tenth of the surface of our country. Consequently, the number of victims of human activities affected by hydrogeological failure is constantly increasing and worryingly increasing. It seems like an unnecessary exercise to repeat these dramatic figures, but I think it's a little bit for all of us to bring more attention to this issue. These are the most visible and most relevant aspects of a phenomenon that in recent decades has found incomplete answers and that has taken on worrying dimensions due to wrong choices and incomplete programming, certainly not referable to the last few years, but dating back and stratified over time. On the basis of these considerations it is the Government's task, but it must also be scrupulous of the legislator, to rethink the overall strategy on the solution of problems related to hydrogeological risk in the Italian territory. In this sense the agenda stimulates the Government and asks for a series of commitments with the aim of making a reset to the policies of the past. Among the objectives of this initiative must certainly include the need to achieve a new governance of actions to protect the territory. In this respect, a reflection is needed on the implementation and application of hydrogeological planning plans in the different basins established in our territory. In this respect it cannot be forgotten that the relationship between the authorities of the basin and local authorities has not yet been fully realized and that the same planning tools have often been enacted and applied in a climate of conflict and perhaps with the genetic vice of studies and technical analyses not always responding to the real situations of the territory or, in any case, at best, not updated. It is precisely for this reason that the aim is to reaffirm the need for a unified direction, not by intending to favour a neocentralism of a purely bureaucratic nature, but rather the aim of overcoming the fragmentation created by the different levels of competences to which instead a full and efficient implementation of policies of protection of soil and water, entrusting them to the authorities of the basin and the regions. Another priority taken into consideration by the document put to the vote today is to increase the expenditure of the State and the Regions for actions and initiatives to prevent and protect hydrogeological risk. It has been told by those who have preceded me that the funds allocated for this objective are objectively insufficient and have often been spent with guilty delays, even in a far-reaching way. Therefore it will be necessary, already from the law of stability for 2014, the forecast of additional resources to be allocated to interventions of prevention and ordinary maintenance of the territory, connecting the same with the plans of basin and with the choices adopted by the Conference State-Regions-local entities. It will also be necessary - the agenda addresses this need in a profound and appropriate way - to set up a national soil protection fund and reduce the hydrogeological risk with which to grant certain resources - many interventions have focused on this point - to local authorities and private individuals, while ensuring the possible removal of buildings built in areas at risk. In this regard, in order to resume the intervention of Senator Cioffi, I would value and highlight the passage on urban derogations. It is often much more devious and deceptive a urban derogation with all the opinions and authorizations than a building abuse more easily recognizable and perhaps the subject of criminal and administrative proceedings than we should only hope for an acceleration in the conclusion and not additional measures. Another commitment that is being asked of the Government with this agenda is to provide for normative and administrative interventions aimed at a greater integration of urban planning with land defense works, linking municipal urban planning plans and large-area plans with the needs only closely linked to the protection of the soil. It is also called for to implement the extraordinary plan for the protection of soil, with which 2.5 billion euros are allocated, including state and regional funds. On the agenda is the further objective of naturalistic exploitation of rivers as a new approach and a new method to manage and, above all, prevent floods that in recent decades have taken on ever greater dimensions. It highlights, as has been reiterated by several senators, the role and function of reclamation consortia, whose know-how can be decisive for serious and efficient prevention strategies. We also refer to the agenda and we hope that civil protection will be improved and better coordinated in conjunction with tragic events due to the phenomenon we are talking about. These are the main points of this agenda. It is a clear agenda for the government to inform and adapt the activities of the Commission and Parliament for the coming years. They are also objectives that generate broad consensus and that, if well achieved, will be able to turn the page to our country that will no longer be the bleak scenario of periodic and mourning tragedies, but will offer a model of efficiency and capacity in solving such complex problems. Precisely for these reasons, convincedly, I announce the favorable vote of the People of Freedom. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u30	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to stress the importance and significance of the debate on this subject today, precisely in the days when the Government is engaged in the preparation of the law of stability, because I am firmly convinced that the environment and the defence of our priceless landscape heritage must be included among the priority interventions for the revival of our country. This is a proposal, a long thought, which must take place in society as a new cultural model even before it is translated into political action. There must be a growing awareness that the beauty of our environmental heritage, which distinguishes us internationally, is the most important force we have and, at the same time, how fragile it is and the victim of human disinterest. As Senator Vaccari recalled, in recent decades the absence of adequate spatial planning has led to a progressive increase in cementification. Moreover, the increasingly widespread use of the practice of abusing, the continuous derogations to the urban regulations and the recurrent policies of condoning the building have prevented the creation of a widespread culture in the matter of the safety of the territory, of respect of the rules and of the protection of the soil. I would like all of us to start thinking about the protection and maintenance of our territory as the first public work of the country, on which to invest. Italy needs to return to growth and create jobs, especially for young people, and the green economy - absolutely the sector with the most serious and long-term prospects for growth - must become the driving force for spending part of the savings resulting from the return from the EU infringement procedure for excessive deficits. Let us be clear: it is misleading to think of doing so without moving from the one-off approach and the only response to the emergency to the planning and planning of prevention policies in land management. A euro spent in prevention saves four in emergency interventions following calamitous events such as landslides, floods, floods. Not to mention the real possibility of saving lives. Moreover, the lack of unitary governance, with the consequent fragmentation and overlapping of competences between different actors and operational tools, not only renders the system of planning, management and monitoring of interventions inefficient, but does not allow easy identification of responsibilities. (Brusio). Mr President, allow me to say that my voice, which is robusting, is overwhelmed by this buzz. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caleo, you are so used to it that you can safely continue. With his eloquent intervention he can silence those who speak. Mr Caleo (PD). Let's hope so, Mr. President. I hope to define a path that leads to the identification of bodies that, in addition to planning interventions, have the resources necessary for the implementation of the same. We cannot speak of the elimination of flooding, of dredging in the focive sections of the rivers, of selective cutting of vegetation, of margins, of expansion boxes, if we do not know who, besides planning them, must take care of their implementation and with what resources available. We therefore call for the elimination of conflicts between competences and the simplification of decision-making procedures. We must give security and legal certainty to citizens who have suffered damage or, worse, have lost their homes or their businesses. For this reason, I find the request to promote forms of insurance against natural risks to citizens and businesses that involve the compulsory involvement of the State is more than necessary. It is also a priority to give back strength, dignity and autonomy, especially financial, to the Civil Protection Department. It is paradoxical that it is left without resources in order to operate in a timely and effective way in the field of combating the damage caused by natural disasters. At the same time, it is more than appropriate to make the most of volunteering and municipal civil protection teams. I was personally able to appreciate its generosity and competence: a rare civic example to be cultivated and supported. How creative solutions must be promoted, for the maintenance of the territory and of the watercourses, that bring forms of incentive to the active participation of the population, also through the experimentation of projects involving workers temporarily beneficiaries of social shock absorbers and prisoners. With regard to the specific theme of soil protection and hydrogeological risk, I am convinced that the change of our development model is no longer procrastinable, which must necessarily be based on: the strategic choice of land use destination; the ecological reconstruction of water courses, with a particular focus on river beehive maintenance programmes, increasingly aimed at reducing the risk of flooding and improving the environmental status; and the monitoring of risk situations. We must combat deforestation and land abandonment and recognise the strategic value of agriculture: not only as a garrison and tool for the ordinary maintenance of the territory, enhancing the function of reclamation consortia, but also and above all as a tool to promote youth employment. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] And here, allow me, fellow senators, it is right to clarify a non-secondary aspect in the decisions that we will have to make. Many times, I rightly say, excessive cementification is highlighted as the cause of the hydrogeological failure, while we underestimate an aspect that is equally crucial: the abandonment of the agricultural territory, especially the hilly one. The noble agricultural practice, with the care of the slopes, the woods, the hydraulic systems dear to the farmer, managed to keep our hill firm and secure. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] When we ask for intervention for prevention, I think it is important to create a system of financial facilities, fiscal for the recovery of crops, for the restructuring of those countries that have undergone an agricultural exodus and to revive the communities as a whole, which are a fundamental element of strong contrast to the depletion of our territory. Colleagues, the reformative capacity of a country is also measured by the degree of attention that arises on important issues such as this. The transmission of positive and lasting values, such as the protection and valorisation of our territory, must become an essential element in the action of direction and government, which, starting from Parliament, arrives at the level of every local administration. The Democratic Party strongly supports the G1 agenda. I would like to remind my fellow senators that it was signed by the Democratic Party, the People of Freedom, SEL, GAL, the self-employed and the Italian Socialist Party, the League and the Civil Choice. I regret that the 5 Star Movement has not signed this agenda and I call upon it once again to withdraw the motion, signed by Senator Cioffi and other senators, and to merge into a document that becomes strong and demanding towards the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna]] We will have more strength to get funding, so, colleagues in the M5S, think again. It is not enough for the government to put in place a strategy for the future; we need certain resources, although important results have been achieved by the Ministry of the Environment, such as the bill for the containment of soil consumption and the archiving of new infringement procedures initiated by the European Commission, all of which Parliament, and specifically the Senate, has helped. It is not enough, therefore, because we need certain economic resources. Well constitutional reforms; well social economic reforms. To all this must also be added the care and valorization of this extraordinary, unique - I dare say - field of beauty that is the Italian territory. The environmental, historical and cultural patrimony must not be lived as an embarrassing burden, but as a real opportunity. This is to return to growth with more appropriate lifestyles, no less decent, but certainly more responsible and that, above all, try to leave deeper and positive footprints for future generations. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u31	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion No 138 (text 2). BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Buccarella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 138 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 29, 95, 128, 134, 137 and 138 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Vaccari, Bruni, Dalla Zuanna, Arrigoni, De Petris, Panizza, Compagnone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u34	CIRILLO, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. I asked to speak briefly, because - as you know - it was planned, as the third item on the agenda, to discuss motions for resolutions on the burning of waste in cement factories. Since a further motion came this morning, which the offices are still analysing, and since the issue is very important, the Government asks the President and all the groups present to be able to move the examination of these motions to next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u35	As no comments are made, the discussion of motions on the combustion of waste in cement factories is postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u38	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, as early as mid-July I had asked for draft law 642 to be drawn up, approved by the Commission with only two abstention votes, on the extension of the rules on the revision of judicial districts. This Assembly subsequently approved, by a very large majority, an agenda, accepted by the Government, which raised the question of the revision of judicial districts. Well, Mr President, I was quite amazed not to see today's timetabled draft law, which would possibly have allowed, precisely because the Government had accepted the agenda on this matter, to accept amendments which reduced the extension to three or four months, since the Minister himself had accepted the possibility of corrections. In view of a clear situation which may lead to inefficiencies, I believe that it would have been preferable (and I asked to speak this morning to consider this possibility) to include the examination of that bill on the agenda this afternoon. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u39	Thank you, Senator Caliendo. As you know, it is the Conference of Leaders that sets the timetable for the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u42	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I would like to support Mr Caliendo's remarks. The question is certainly not on the agenda, but there is the deadline of 13 September: the government must keep the commitments it has made with this House, otherwise it does not work in democracy. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u43	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00050, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other Senators, 1-00072, tabled by Senator Pagnoncelli and other Senators, 1-00126, tabled by Senator Scavone and other Senators, 1-00136, tabled by Senator Lumia and other Senators, and 1-00139, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other Senators, against the spread of gambling. I call Senator Bellot to explain motion No 50. (Brusio)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u44	Mr President, I would like to ask you for some silence and attention on the part of the House: otherwise, I think it is also unnecessary to intervene. Colleagues senators, the Group of the North League has tabled this motion in the light of the need for strong intervention, decided, but above all urgent, so that this destructive phenomenon that runs under the name of ludopathy, or dependence on the game, is stopped... (Brusio). I think it's pointless to continue... president. Quiet, please. Allow the intervention of Senator Bellot. BELLOT (LN-Aut). The current economic situation, higher by intensity, duration and diffusion than that of 1929, has imposed to our country a policy of containment aimed at the consolidation of public accounts, with a clear depressive and recessive effect, so much to generate a widespread impoverishment of citizenship and consequently of families. At a difficult time like what this country is going through (but perhaps - I repeat - nobody cares, given the buzz) it is the duty of the Government to protect that guarantee system that is based on respect for the principles and values of a civil country. The sacrifices demanded of citizens must find a response to constructive investments aimed at safeguarding the fundamental structures of society, in the first place therefore the family. The family must return to being that founding value and it is the duty of this Government to protect its principles and values. This economic crisis has generated and continues to generate dangerous social phenomena: inevitable lack of propensity to save and equally inevitable search for a non-existent wealth; a mirage and an illusion, to bring to the ultimate desperation citizens and families. Gambling is now considered the biggest cause of recourse to debt or usury or, unfortunately, very often, to both. The data provided by the National Council of anti-wear foundations are official, numbers that make you shudder, as it makes you shudder to know that ludopathy is one of the main causes of suicide. The data of the Autonomous Administration of State Monopolies are clear on this phenomenon, in particular regarding the percentage distribution of gambling: slot machines 56.7 percent, 1.3% online games, 12.7 percent lottery, 8.5% lottery. There are then distance skill games with cash winnings, currently called skill games, with a 7.7 percent. Out of 30 million gamblers today in Italy, as many as 15 million are regular gamblers and at least 3 million are at risk of developing the disease, not to mention that about 120,000 are already dependent on pathological gambling. Then we ask ourselves how it is possible for this Government to deny the evidence of an unmanageable situation, due to the despair and fatigue of living and to the false promises of easy enrichment with non-existent winnings, because anyway - let's remember it - it always wins and only the bank. The North League wonders whether this Government has ever seriously assessed the social costs, direct and indirect, due to the damage that this legalized phenomenon entails: people cancelled, unable to stop, with the illusion of being able to get out, after having indebted their families. Men and women, regardless of age or social group, who lose work and dignity, often destroying even the most loved ones. People with whom the intervention of social and health structures becomes inevitable; they are: costs incurred in the face of a failure management of a phenomenon for which care can and must be one: stop gambling related to slot machines, carefully evaluate a regulation, not legalize what is forbidden by our penal code. The North League has always, for any addiction, seen as the only choice that of not legalizing. It is like treating drug dependence with methadone, a solution that we have always opposed; drastic prohibition and incisive choice, hard but effective. Moreover, the management of these licences, granted to companies of dubious nature, should not be underestimated, in contrast to the lack of tax revenues that have seen them reward evadors, with a sanatorium that has brought the debt to the treasury from 98 billion to 2,5 billion euros; and then to get to the gift - we can call it this - of 600 million euros, which will almost certainly never be paid into the coffers of the State, therefore disrespectful of all those honest entrepreneurs and citizens - and I repeat the word: honest - that with difficulty they pay due to a State that proves unfair also in this respect. The usual formula: strong with the weak and weak with the stronger. I therefore read the last part of the text of the motion; I would even allow the senators to read it directly, given the lack of interest, but, out of respect for my Group, I will read it: In view of the fact that gambling is prohibited by the penal code, far-reaching gambling has been introduced in the country, i.e. the licence, granted to various companies, for the management of online gaming devices, with a considerable increase in turnover for concessionary companies. Not surprisingly, in recent years, the gambling industry has become one of the most important in the country, so much so that slot machines, poker, betting and gambling of different kinds have flooded the market at ever more hectic paces, with considerable growth in the number of players, involving every social group, including pensioners, housewives, young people, and that makes Italy the first country in the world for spending per capita on gaming. Our motion therefore: "Makes a commitment to the government to launch a twelve-month moratorium on online gambling and on electronic gambling systems in public places and open to the public" quickly, including through the use of emergency regulatory instruments. I thank those who have had the decency to listen. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u45	I call Senator Pagnoncelli to explain motion No 72.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no passing day when the news reports do not report very often dramatic news and are dependent on gambling issues. It is certainly an atavistic problem, as old as man, but public opinion is increasingly concerned by the obvious correlations between the lawful and the illicit game, but it is even more so in the face of the impotence it perceives in seeing a continuous proliferation and uncontrolled growth of salt or pseudo such, in places that have nothing to do with the play activity. By now bars, clubs, shopping centers, social, sports and recreated, even stations and every public place frequented become a business opportunity, an opportunity to plant a nice machine (suitably installed with all the necessary crisms and protocols). Thousands of machines that, seem to be grains of sand that, one by one, grain on grain, can transform over time a lush garden into a desert. It is that lush garden of values that we want to protect, here it is no longer a question of defending political positions in the interests of free enterprise or free will. Although liberal thinking leaves the responsibility of everyone to regulate the services it provides or consumes at this time, and also for the effects that result from it, we cannot underestimate that the context is constantly evolving, especially the one in which illicit gambling develops. Shyly, the Monti Government has partially addressed the problem with Law No. 189 of 2012 but, like any law that is respected in this country, the implementation is almost always entrusted to the issuing of a decree aimed at introducing new rules, decree that for good peace of all, this time also of the Led Government, has slipped by a further six months. Patience, it seemed to be a first sign: this expected decree was to expressly regulate the prohibition of advertising messages of games with cash winnings in television, radio, as well as on the Internet. It also had to regulate the prohibition of entry for children under the age of eighteen in the playrooms with cash winnings, as well as to put hand to the planning and relocation of the collection spaces of the game, also in relation to distances from schools of every order and grade, from health facilities, cult, socio-recreational and sports centers. It seems strange to the more that such an important theme for the many ethical aspects that follow, which are the basis of civil coexistence (even if it includes those of an economic character, and equally important), can be regulated almost exclusively by the Ministry of Economy with the fundamental contribution of the State Monopolies; I have the impression that it is a bit like that popular tale, a bit imaginative, inspired by a well-known novel of the early twentieth century for which, even in the presence of regular requirements, Mr. Vlad III, count in Transylvania in times ago, risked being appointed Director General of AVIS. For the moment and waiting to see implemented the first initiatives already approved, however, there is still a progressive explosion of sites and advertising in the forms not protected and, at the same time, the phenomenon of ludopathy is becoming more and more an emergency. From the latest data from the IPSAD study (Italian Population Survey on Alcohol and other Drugs) of the Institute of Clinical Physiology of the CNR in Pisa, in the three years from 2008 to 2011, the percentage of people between the fifteen and sixty-four years who have wagered money at least once on one of the many games on the market has gone from 42 to 47 percent; they are about 19 million bettors, of which three million are at risk of ludopathy, especially men, unemployed and people with a low level of education. From the recorded data, the growth of game fever emerges, even among teenagers: it amounts to more than one million students who reported, in 2012, that they have put money on games and, despite clear restrictive legislation to protect minors, it turns out that as many as 630,000 under 18 have spent at least one euro in gambling. Also according to this study, a survey involving 45,000 high school students and 516 schools throughout the nation, 45.3 percent of the students have invested in money in the last year. To be more involved in the game result are more boys than girls and it is estimated that about 100,000 students already have a moderate risk profile and about 70,000 define those with a problematic game mode. Recent data provided by the State Monopolies show that the gaming sector had a collection of 62,355 million euros in the period January-October 2012, with about 400,000 entertainment equipment installed and 6,181 local or authorized agencies, attended by 15 million regular players. To this we must add that there is often an ever closer link between the economic crisis and the game, which can become a powerful catalyst of malaise and mistrust. The gaming market is a constantly growing sector and the number of gambling patients is therefore set to rise in proportion to the turnover, variety of supply and attractiveness of the game. What is most concerned is that we are faced with a new social disease, which often generates phenomena of family breakdown and total impoverishment, as well as an exponential increase in the risk of falling into the very serious phenomenon of wear and dependency. The game is becoming more and more a real illusion of easy gain for many families who are in debt because of addiction, and unfortunately many young people and young people come to reserve much more trust and hope in games than in institutions. In our country, like what happens in other countries of the West, the offer of gambling is constantly increasing and is increasingly diversified, so much so that what in the past was a habit concerning a narrow group of people has become, in fact, within everyone's reach. The article published in "Avvenire" on June 13 shows worrying data processed by the National Council of Foundations and anti-usury associations, according to which obsessive dedication to slot machines, videopoker and scratch cards every year subtracts 70 million working hours and diverts at least 20 billion euros from the real economy, thus erasing 115,000 jobs. It is a real economic hemorrhage that caused by gambling: it is proof of the time used by players for the different types of game. The new slot machines have totaled 28 billion games, equal to over 46 million hours spent pressing keys; 5 billion games at videolottery (equal to 8.3 million hours spent pressing keys); 2.2 billion so-called scratches on scratch cards; 15 billion online games, not to mention - then - of playing Lotto, SuperEnalotto and other traditional games. In essence, hundreds of millions of hours lost in pursuit of a mirage. Moreover, the gambling drains resources to consumption, already in strong contraction: if in 2012 have been 90 billions played, taking into account the winnings, are at least 20 billions of euros removed from the trade and services destined to the sale. The study also calculated the employment potential dissipated by gaming spending, which can be estimated at around 90,000 trade and service employees and around 25,000 industrial employees. I wonder how one can, in conscience, in the face of these numbers, witness daily the social disintegration of hundreds of thousands of families fallen into this infernal trap. One cannot remain deaf and not understand what will be the destiny of these families who, in addition to material goods, will lose everything: dignity, honor, respect and trust (confidence in oneself, first, and next, then). Behind this phenomenon are men, women, the elderly and - above all - children in the flesh who suffer and do not even find in the state that figure of father and grandfather who certainly seek and unfortunately do not find. We need adequate means to ensure that, as soon as possible, the necessary measures can be adopted and implemented to prevent the phenomenon of ludopathy from increasing: common sense is required but also, with force, the press, voluntary associations and bodies that work daily to deal with these forms of dependence. Dear Ministry of Economics, beat a blow, possibly immediately and soon! Therefore, and I begin to conclude, with the approval of this motion in the first place we want to commit the Government to adopt every immediate and timely initiative aimed at implementing punctually the principles and commitments assumed in the sixteenth legislature with the conversion of Decree-Law n. 158, 13 September 2012, in order to make more effective and incisive the action of contrast to ludopathy. Secondly, it is intended to commit the Government to take every useful initiative aimed at increasing the protection of players, in particular minors and other vulnerable or potentially such persons, guaranteeing and reducing the possibilities of access by minors, monitoring entry and training personnel ad hoc, as well as ensuring in the same way on the online game, through information campaigns of prevention. Finally, it calls for a commitment by the Commission to continue to promote awareness-raising initiatives on the risks related to gambling and restrictive actions, as well as control and monitoring, aimed at curbing the phenomenon of gambling, especially by minors who are more easily conditioned and susceptible and in whom the tendency to dependence is much higher. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u47	I call Senator Companione to explain motion 126.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the phenomenon of gambling has taken on an enormous amount of social and economic proportions. Unfortunately, it is now clear that in the last twenty years, due to the introduction of various forms of betting, lotteries and electronic devices, as well as through the Internet, gambling is constantly and strongly expanding. There are about 30 million gamblers in the various categories of games today in Italy, not to mention the activities of casinos, private clubs, as well as the underground game, with a volume of spending that has reached the considerable figure of almost 164 billion euros in the last six years. Gambling is becoming a real social emergency, especially in view of the fact that the main players are often young people. In parallel with the spread of gambling, there is a worrying spread of ludopathy, called GAP (pathological gambling). Pathological gambling is a psychiatric disorder classified as a impulse control disorder and is characterized by obsessive-compulsive symptoms. It is a behavior disorder which, although still part of the diagnostic category of obsessive-compulsive disorders, has in fact a great connection with drug addiction, so much so that it falls within the area of so-called addictions to substances. The pathological player, in fact, shows a growing dependence on gambling, increasing the frequency of the games, the time spent playing, the sum spent in trying to recover the losses, investing more of their economic possibilities and neglecting the normal commitments of life to dedicate themselves to the game. Among the most obvious consequences of this disease are certainly those linked to financial losses and property, as well as the repercussions on the working environment, separations, divorces and family difficulties. Added to this are the risks of association with other addictions, especially alcohol and drugs, as well as the development of disorders related to psychic stress. Currently, this pathology is beginning to affect young people more and more, because of the ease with which, by now, you can have access to the game. Consider, moreover, that the severity of the situation can also be seen in the fact that suicide attempts in pathological gamblers are up to four times higher than the average of the entire population. The reality described cannot go unnoticed. In fact, even in view of the need for contrast and prevention of ludopathy, gambling in recent decades has been the subject of numerous legislative interventions aimed at regulating the aspect of gaming through automatic, semi-automatic and electronic devices. For the purpose of the installation of VLT (video lottery terminal) equipment in a public playroom, police license, authorisations and concessions by different administrations are required. In addition, in the exercise of their respective powers, administrations must act in compliance with the legal requirements to establish the requirements of the rooms used as playrooms, protecting the constitutionally guaranteed right to health, ensuring the cancellation, revocation and provision of the necessary controls to ensure compliance with the bans on the advertising of gambling to minors, in order to grant authorisations for the installation of VLTs. The Stability Act for 2011 provided that, in agreement with the Unified Conference, within sixty days of the date of entry into force of the Act, the autonomous administration of state monopolies and the Ministry of Health would adopt guidelines for the prevention, contrast and recovery of phenomena of ludopathy resulting from compulsive play. To date, moreover, despite the pronunciation of the TAR of Lazio that has long ordered the adoption of the inter-directional decree, it has not yet been adopted and indeed the law of stability for 2013 extends the issue of the decree to 31 December 2013. Recently the so-called Balduzzi decree has provided for the updating of the essential levels of assistance with reference to the performance of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation aimed at people suffering from ludopathy, understood as pathology that characterizes the subjects suffering from gambling syndrome with cash payout, thus recognizing ludopathy as pathology (Article 5, paragraph 2). It is noted that the Balduzzi decree also provided for the obligation to report warnings on the risk of dependence on the practice of games with cash winnings and on the relative probability of winning in the areas and rooms with video-terminals and dictated new rules on the advertising of games, and that the authorizations issued by the competent administrations must be issued in the presence of adequate investigation and in good time motivated in the justification of their release, our motion commits the Government to a series of measures: to use concrete tools and procedures in order to verify on the territory that the authorizations granted for the installation of the VLTs comply with the current legislation; to evaluate proposals or initiatives aimed at establishing safety protocols beyond those currently foreseen; to counter the phenomenon of pathological gambling (GAP) linked to the VLTs considered the obvious urgency of regulation of the phenomenon and also considering that the delay in the adoption of additional measures compared to what has been achieved to date represents a serious deficiency and a disturbing stalemat in the prevention of ludopathy; to adopt a strategy and initiatives to make operational the principles contained in the Balduzzi decree, also with reference to the aim of the discipline to the introduction to the practice of preventive measures to be taken by the prevention and prevention of specific and prevention of the practice; [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u49	I call Senator Lumia to explain motion 136.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u50	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, gambling and buying gold are the mirror of a declining country, of a country that cannot yet make the crisis a powerful resource to change and leverage an unprecedented and virtuous combination of legality and development; gambling and buying gold are instead a vicious circle that makes our country dependent and blackmailed by its own structural limitations. Mr President, in gambling, turnover is around EUR 90 billion, a figure of 4% of national GDP. If we wanted to make a comparison with the big companies in our country, we would place the turnover of gambling SpA in third place after ENI and ENEL. At the same time - here is the paradox - on a turnover of more than 90 billion euros, we have a deposit limited only to 9 billion euros. When I say "only" someone may object that it is a big figure. Here is the paradox: we find ourselves, in the face of a huge, huge turnover, a small collection; but that small collection of 9 billion euros is indispensable for the holding of our accounts. Hence the blackmail, the structural limit: a vicious circle. We have recently had a report, carried out by Public Notice, that reality that associates local authorities and regions for civil training against the mafias, that has well explained to us how this blackmail is exercised, the damages that our country suffers, the side effects that are downloaded on the employees who participate in gambling. That is why today it is estimated that 30 million people are involved in this phenomenon, of which 2 million are at risk of addiction and as many as 800,000 pathological players. A figure equal to twice the number of drug addicts present in Italy. 18.16 (Lumy followed). Another alarming fact is that of minors: it is estimated that there are as many as 500,000 boys and youngsters used to gamble. Many players fall into the spiral of pathological gambling. It is a serious form of dependence, like addictions to substances, which arouses in the players the imperative need to play, until it provokes states of abstinence from play, with heavy repercussions both on their lives and on that of their families. This greatly engages our services, already in difficulty, with enormous staff shortages and few resources, to intervene on this new challenge that is putting in serious difficulties young people, adults and families of our country. The ease of access to games of chance and the enormous presence of media advertising, often with misleading formulas, also contribute to increased risk. Slogan as "You like to win easy" or "Next the next millionaire" are in fact clearly deceptive. Think, ladies and gentlemen, that already in 1980 the World Health Organization recognized pathological gambling as a form of addiction and invited our country to put it into the essential levels of care, which happened after thirty years, so with a little delay. The Balduzzi decree of a few months ago introduced the dependence on games in the LEA, i.e. in welfare levels, and within a short time (on 31 December 2012), on a proposal from the Minister of Health in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance, it was necessary to update the essential levels of assistance with regard to prevention performance. Article 7 of Decree-Law n. 158 of 13 September 2012 also provided for the prohibition of entry for minors in the areas destined to play with money winnings inside the Bingo halls, as well as the areas where videoterminals are installed and in the points of sale where the main activity is practiced that of betting. To date, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, neither the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on the updating of the levels of assistance with regard to treatment and rehabilitation, nor the aforementioned decree of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance on the ban on minors, have been adopted. That is why there is a structural limit, which is why this creeping blackmail weighs on the democratic and economic life of our country. In the past, this Parliament has dealt with gambling, it has denounced the enormous vacuum that exists, particularly on online gambling, nobody's land, disproportionate enrichments, dependence, the presence of mafias, stupid, very low income and control of legality of zero. Yet Parliament has spoken in the last parliamentary term several times: I remember speeches by authoritative Members of this Parliament, who no longer sit in this Chamber today and have fought against the regulation and restriction of gambling in our country. I recall, for example, the former Senator Lauro, who worked very hard in the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. Yet, there was no result. Even today there is this risk; that is why the Democratic Party has tabled a detailed motion asking for serious commitments, it invites the Government to assume certain responsibilities, and to deal with the presence of the Mafia organizations, remembering that these have reached a turnover of about 10 billion euros. All the Mafia organizations are present (our own, 'ndrangheta, camorra, sacred united crown). Around this great deal, the Free Association has recorded the presence of as many as 50 clans with direct and indirect interests: we remember the Casalesi, Santapaola, Condello, Lo Piccolo: and the list would be long to do. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed a very detailed motion. That is why, colleagues, we invite the Government - and I invite the government representative to take note of this - to review the coverage that has been used in the recent Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August 2013 on the famous IMU affair. In fact, it is planned to close the open dispute with the dealers of public games for the non-payment of what was due to the Erario, guaranteeing a certain entry in close times, thus closing proceedings opened for years, but - attention - where were at stake billions and billions of euros that the dealers owe to the State. I think that this coverage should be reviewed; I think that we in Parliament must work together with the Government to prevent gambling from being considered a resource once again: they are a limit, they are a problem, they are an obstacle to the development and legality of our country. In our commitments we identify the need to raise the accreditation standards of dealers and the system of controls on their corporate identity, the origin of their assets and their financial flows through a tracking system of incoming and outgoing movements, in order to avoid the presence of mafia infiltrations and money laundering. We also call on the Government to commit itself to introducing, with regard to the traceability of money, the dedicated account and the register of betting and prognostic competitions; to introduce the prohibition of participation in competitions and procedures for the issue of concessions in the matter of games by natural and legal persons sentenced for serious crimes; to establish for trust companies, investment funds and trusts holding holdings in the capital or in the assets of public game concessionaires the obligation to declare the identity of the sender; to equate legal operators with foreign companies operating in Italy without a licence; to establish in all prosecutors of the Republic of specialised pools; to increase penalties; to ban the advertising of gambling especially with regard to minors, as well as to take warning messages to discourage their use, as has been done for smoking; to raise VAT on online games from 0.6 percent to 21%, perhaps with this raising coverage for the abolition of the IMF; to ensure the adoption as soon as possible of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on the updating of the EA; to establish a gambling fund for prevention and prevention. In short, we have put forward a whole series of proposals which are clearly useful, on which we call on Parliament and the Government to play their part, unlike what has been done so far. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u51	I call Senator Endrizzi to explain motion No 139.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u52	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, I would like to explain motion No 139 in four conceptual blocks. First, it's not a game. Secondly, the state suffers billion-dollar losses from this affair. Thirdly, it is a breeding ground for illegality and mafia phenomena. Four of our proposals for solutions, the ones the country is asking for. It's not a game, it's a risky behavior for your health. The players in Italy are about 15 million, of which 1.250,000 are boys between the fifteen and the nineteen years. The most restrictive estimates calculate in 800,000 pathological players and in 2 million problematic players; adolescents between 15 and 19 years old, with problematic or pathological gaming profiles, according to recent investigations published by the Department of Drug Policies, are 7.2 percent, i.e. about 200,000. The game would be forbidden to minors: they have an emotional system in development and less control of impulses, they are therefore more vulnerable and must be protected. The variety, availability and accessibility of the games, on the other hand, facilitate the onset of the pathology, as well as the advertising, especially the deceptive one, and, again, the short latency between the game and its outcome, which in the slot machines is just a few seconds. Pathological gambling is very similar to drug addiction. The irresistible desire leads to neglecting work, affections, family, children, committing crimes or becoming a victim of them, as in the case of usury. The National Health Service has not yet established prevention and treatment programmes. It is expected to be included in the essential levels of assistance, but there are no economic cover and therefore in the unified State-Regions Conference there has been no follow-up to the proclamations. Secondly, contrary to what is being said, the State suffers, as I will demonstrate, a net loss from this market. Of the 88.5 billion turnover, the state has 8 billion; this is equivalent to an average taxation of 9%. The VAT alone for our businesses is now 21%. It is an unacceptable disparity, a favour that is too striking to be suspicious. This turnover is 56 percent derived from slot machines and videolottery, which a few years ago did not exist, and much of the market is in the hands of multinationals resident in tax havens. It is therefore a question of resources taken away from domestic consumption. It is the family of the player who is affected, who sometimes deprives even the children of sustenance. But the negative consequences are also felt by Italian companies and employment, with a loss of 120,000 jobs, although probably there are many more. The state for its part loses, for lacked consumption, about 3.8 billion VAT revenues. The attraction to the game then causes absenteeism. It is related to stress disorders, psychological problems even serious (anxiety, depression, suicidal ideas) and addiction to alcohol and drugs. Pathological players therefore require more outpatient and hospital care, have greater sick leave, show less productivity in the workplace and, often, lose it, work. So families need social assistance. We then consider the damages resulting from theft, scams, usury and the costs to the State for the fight against criminal phenomena. According to a study by the University of Neuchâtel, the social and health costs for Italy would amount to about 6 billion. So Italy earns 8 billion a year, but the revenues for the Erario are falling, while it suffers losses of 10 billion and the pathologies are increasing. Who is this market for? I come to the third point. The illegal market is worth 10 billion. At least 42 cosche, some say 50, depending on the counts, are probably more, have been investigated by ten prosecutors for interest also in the legal market, which is worth 88,5 billion in 2012 and is used as laundry to recycle dirty capital, since the flows of money are not adequately monitored. Even the prohibition of the game for minors is not enforced. The Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission in the last parliamentary term denounced the serious phenomena of illegality linked to the sector: usury, extortion, money laundering, scams, circumvention and evasion. Big responsibility has the policy, which since 1997, from right to left, has in fact overturned the legislation: what was previously forbidden, with few exceptions, has become usual. The exception killed the norm. Fourth point. What measures should be taken? First of all, give more powers to the mayors to regulate the spread of the premises and their activities. The legislation assigns this responsibility to the matter of public order and safety, removing the mayors from the tasks of public health protection. It is necessary to establish a national register for persons who, in order to protect themselves, voluntarily ask to be excluded from access to games, as already happens in casinos, and to introduce identity-assessment systems also to protect minors. As with cigarettes and tobacco, advertising of direct and indirect gambling in all advertising areas, including sports and other sponsorships, must be totally prohibited. In relation to this, it is appropriate to establish an effective sanctioning system for offenders. Decree-Law No 158 of 2012 requires that warnings on risks be visible on electronic devices and in gambling spaces. However, it must be explained and specified what is meant by the expression "obviously visible" in an objective and uninterpretable way. The same decree provides that the chances of real winnings are clearly indicated; in this case, too, the meaning of the word "obvious" must be explained. The winnings, the amount of which is almost equal to the game, must not be considered in the calculation: if I put a euro and receive a euro, where is the win? However, the player has a false feeling of gratification, which encourages him to play. With this system, moreover, the probability of winning is artificially inflated. It is necessary to align and standardise taxation on the different games, raising them already from the current year. The largest revenue must be allocated to the financing of prevention, care and research programmes and therefore give full application to Decree-Law No 158 of 2012. I also think it is important that we finance, in conjunction with the associations promoting the national campaign against gambling risks, a study that determines how much it would cost and what benefits we could derive from the return to the regulatory situation before 1997, when we had no slot machines and lived better, defining a possible exit plan. Furthermore, the Government should undertake to implement Article 88 of the single text of public security laws, in the sense proposed in the report of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission approved on 17 November 2010; to increase criminal and administrative sanctions for those who exercise, even remotely, in any way, betting activities in the absence of authorisation or license; to ensure the full traceability of financial flows into gambling throughout the national territory, to prevent criminal infiltration and money laundering of illicit origin. Finally, during the parliamentary examination of the so-called IMU decree, the deletion of Article 14 should be promoted by activating the procedures necessary to fully demand the sums due by the undertakings operating in the gambling sector fined for tax avoidance and evasion [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and immediately remove from the roles of responsibility and discretion the officials of the State involved in this scandalous judicial affair in various ways. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u53	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u54	Mr President, the subject we are dealing with today is of particular social importance, given the direct correlation between the expansion of the gambling market and the increase of so-called gambling patients. Gaming fever is identifiable as a real disease, with clear symptoms. The initial input is often the search for strong emotions and easy gains, of the stroke of luck that pushes you to try the card of the game, perhaps believing to experience a new escape, when in reality you fall into the vortex of what becomes a real vice, an uncontrollable impulse characterized by the alternation of phases of depression and euphoria. What is most alarming is the lack of awareness of the risks that you run when you let yourself be enchanted by the game. Advertising marketing campaigns that promote the media gambling industry exalt easy earnings and are far more widespread than campaigns that should, instead, responsibly shed light on the psychological and social components related to the phenomenon, the possibility of losing control and the knowledge of the limits beyond which one should not go. There is a lot of talk about the harmful effects of smoking, drugs and alcohol, using strong images to discourage their use: prevention campaigns in these cases are numerous and also quite effective. Certainly a step forward has been taken with Law No. 189 of 2012 which, among other things, has rightly provided for the prohibition of advertising that induces to play in magazines, newspapers, cinemas and on the Internet. The figures speak clearly and report alarming statistics, as well as those who illustrated the motions. We are talking about 30 million gamblers in our country, of which 15 million are usual and at least 3 million are at risk of developing a disease. The most worrying fact, however, is that this number is constantly growing among the weakest sections of our society, among those who do not yet have the appropriate tools to assess risks and impacts, and are therefore more likely to develop an addiction, such as adolescents. For this reason it is necessary to introduce even more restrictive measures to access areas for gambling and betting, to protect minors, and to disseminate information campaigns also in schools, with subsequent monitoring and control actions among the youngest. Among the most important aspects of an effective prevention strategy, the need to place, as required by law, the points of the physical network of collection of the game practiced by electronic devices away from sensitive areas, such as primary and secondary education institutions, health and hospital facilities, places of worship and recreational and sports social centres should be highlighted. On this point it is necessary to issue implementing regulations soon, then it will be necessary to have serious control in order to effectively combat any violations. Moreover, gaming fever has become a real social pathology with implications and implications that affect the psychological, economic, emotional and working spheres. Precisely to counter the phenomenon at its root, an adequate social awareness and information campaign can counter the illusion of easy gains. The distorted message that is still being transmitted, especially among the youngest, is that of gambling as an easy and immediate form of gain, which does not require any kind of commitment: a kind of comfortable alternative to investing time and energy in studying or carrying out a job. Especially at a critical cyclical stage, in which we are even more vulnerable to the temptation of easy profit prospects, we should intervene vigorously to counter this false myth. Although the revenue from gambling is high, in an assessment of the cost-benefit ratio that takes into account the social and economic effects generated by a further expansion of the gambling industry in the country, not only emerges the concern for this new form of social pathology, ludopathy, but also shows far from negligible economic consequences. In fact, gambling drains resources to consumption, which are already in strong contraction, leading to a real economic hemorrhage, and also steals another resource with priceless value to the labour market, time. Restrictive measures would therefore be necessary and desirable in order to discourage the access of young people to the gambling world and to regulate its operation more rigidly with narrow and capillary forms of control, also considering the possibility of setting maximum permitted limits for the sums to be played. Where there is a risk of endangering the well-being of our young people, there is no match for it, and the social costs are far higher than those represented by income... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u55	Senator Chiavaroli, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u56	CHIAVAROLI (PdL). It is absolutely necessary to take a responsible approach to remedy this new social emergency. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u57	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u58	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have always supported any initiative that leads to a restriction and greater control of what is emerging, not only in Italy but throughout Europe, as a terrible scourge: gambling. Reading all the motivations contained in the motions that we are going to vote on, it can be noted that they focus on the social problems that gambling triggers through its most serious form, ludopathy, at all levels of society, which involves a wide range of population, especially minors, young people and the elderly, which cannot be defended in the most appropriate way. All reasons are truthful in their drama, which involve, in addition to the destruction of entire family assets, the extreme debt that pushes in the very serious phenomenon of usury the people who are already in difficulty, up to the extreme act of suicides for the debts of the players themselves. What, in my opinion, these motions clearly highlight are the consequences, but not the causes: they do not explain who enriches and nourishes this phenomenon. I am talking about crime, which is finding spaces, territories to control, precisely with gambling and with the illegal activities connected with it; it is creeping into increasingly vast territories of Italy and the State absolutely must not give up. The malavitous organizations use this means, the gambling rooms and gambling, to recycle the money that has an illicit origin and to steal the innocence of so many young people who, out of naivety or curiosity, approach these halls. Therefore, to study further regulatory instruments that put a stop to this phenomenon, which increase the controls and the strengthening of the bureaucratic process for the opening of these rooms, is always a good hope. Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I come from a province, that of Imperia, which is famous because it has as its symbol the city of Sanremo and its municipal casino, which carries out a strict control over who enters and the age of the people who benefit from it. That is why he is now on the verge of failure. Furthermore, the spread of gambling by organised crime is leading to further consequences that at first sight do not seem to be related. Those administrations or individual administrators who oppose the opening of new gambling rooms are threatened with death. I know that because I am one of those administrators: I opposed with all my strength to the opening of a further gaming room in my municipality, I had the courage to denounce and for this reason I lived a year and a half under escort. It was the most difficult and troubled time of my life, but I would do it again without delay to defend the community to which I belong. [[Applause.]] Also for this reason, I find it important that the State is present with all its structures in a territory at the geographical borders of Italy, which must provide for all those problems that involves being a garrison of legality on many fronts. Mr President, since I have finished my time, I would like to be able to attach the full text of my speech to the Reports of the sitting. However, I would like to conclude by stressing one last point: closing important structures such as the courts means weakening the Italian State, but above all it means strengthening the game of the mafias. Thanks for listening. [[Applause from the groupsPD, PdL and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u59	Senator Albano, we also thank you for your testimony of life lived.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u60	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u62	Mr President, I should also like to speak briefly, because the motions that have been put forward are entirely acceptable. The fight against ludopathies is certainly an important challenge for society and in particular for our health system, so I fully agree with the considerations and commitments that these motions contain. I would like to remind you that among the new addictions there is also the one linked to an excessive recourse by minors, I would say to an abuse, of television, of the Network and of video games: it is a worrying aspect to say the least, that can be fought only with a real commitment from the same families aimed at directing their children to humanizing and formative activities, such as music and sport, in place of using in a comfortable and simple way TVs or computers as new babysitters. However, I would like to stress one particular aspect, which may seem contradictory at first glance, but it is linked to the function of gambling houses, i.e. the recognized casinos. I remember that the four authorized gaming houses (Campione d'Italia, Saint Vincent, Sanremo and Venice) promote a culture of conscious and responsible gaming: in fact, they have all entered into an agreement with reference health companies and mental health departments, with a view to a policy linked to the prevention of risks related to gambling addiction. For example, there is the possibility of requiring self-exclusion or limitation by players themselves or their families from gaming houses, which is inconceivable and unthinkable in game forms such as SuperEnalotto, online poker and so on. The increase in cases of ludopathy is mainly linked to the forms of play outside the authorised casinos, which have seen a drastic reduction of customers. Therefore, initiatives related to the relaunch of casinos, such as raising the limit of cash, have not only the purpose of trying to raise the fate of a sector in crisis, involving more than 3,000 employees, but also that of making the gambling houses and casinos again privileged structures for those who want to play in a controlled and safe way, where - I remember - all the money is traced and there is the possibility, as I said before, to carry out a real and serious preventive and limiting action of the problems related to the game, in accordance with the competent health structures. [[Applause from Senators De Biasi and Silvestro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, we are dealing today with a subject which, although regulated, is not acceptable as morally legitimate; otherwise, legitimacy would coincide with lawfulness. We can say that we are dealing with gambling and gambling induction, so I would bring to your attention the expression "game of chance induced": a sort of conceptual oxymoron, we can say, or of a contentistic type. Of course, the data on induced gambling are impressive. No later than July 2012, the British agency Reuters stated that, even in a time of deep economic crisis, the promise of a jackpot in Italy shines at every street corner and Italy is the largest gambling market in Europe and one of the largest in the world. According to the National Anti-wear Council and the anti-wear foundations, gambling is considered the biggest cause of recourse to debts and/or usury in Italy. We could go on for a long time. Recently, on 4 July last, we were struck by the tragic news of a 19-year-old boy who took his life by throwing himself into the void: before making this tragic gesture, he had written to his mother to apologize, because he had lost all the money in the game. We are therefore talking about ludopathies: stories of progressive relational and moral dryness, paths that slowly and inexorably lead to loss, social and emotional isolation, debt, the use of lawlessness even wider and destructive. The boy's death is only the last evidence of an emergency that broke out in Italy. By now, the risk of developing forms of dependence on the game has spread to the youngest: it is an even more dangerous addiction, because it develops inside the home, in the familiar intimacy we could say, playing and losing money in front of a computer, using the Internet. We are witnessing a sneaky and pervading emergency and social drift, which must be absolutely opposed, taking measures to defend especially the youngest, and not only them, I would say. Motions and initiatives to combat and marginalise the phenomenon are well received, but the issue here is of such social seriousness that we cannot consider limiting it by the force of motions alone. We have to go further. Gambling and ludopathies are structural issues, which challenge us all and call for the development and implementation of policies that are truly and consistently oriented towards the protection of every person, his dignity, the families, the contrast of the phenomenon. In short, let's say it clearly and forcefully this evening: you cannot liberalise gambling in search of tax revenues for the state and then try to limit them and possibly suffer the negative effects, perhaps for a few days. We can say that the incentive to gambling began in a history that dates back to 1992, when, for obvious economic reasons already, Italy needed tax revenue urgently. In 1994, however, turnover did not exceed LIT 6.5 billion. Someone could at this point object and say that it is a matter of political realism: because of a state economy, it is also possible to do this. But that argument is so realistic that it does not take into account other realities, which are instead forgotten about sensitivity and social responsibility. No one is free from these responsibilities. In 2006, foreign operators were allowed to enter the Italian market and this particular market is constantly growing. A little later, in 2011, with the so-called Ferragosto decree, the liberalisation of online gambling was launched. Online gambling revenue is only a part of that of gambling as a whole and it is also the sector that has grown the most, with an increase, compared to 2011, of 100 percent. In the first six months, after liberalisation, more than EUR 5 billion were invoiced. I start by concluding, because the length of the intervention must not be such as to induce us to repeat things that have already been widely and appropriately remembered by colleagues who have spoken before me, reporting so much data. I believe that an assumption of responsibility, such as that proper to the legislator, consists not only in presenting motions, but also in making sure that, through those acts of direction, we start another path, a path in which everyone takes charge of the dramas that take place at the social level. He said Hemingway in one of his famous writings: if the bell rings, that bell also rings for you. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u65	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u66	Mr President, the motions we are about to vote are all based on a single problem, which I remember having already addressed in my first speech in this House, namely the spread of gambling and the fight against the behavioral disorder that is closely linked to it. Even today, thanks to the impetus provided by the motions put forward by colleagues, we want to ask the government for a serious commitment on how to address this sensitive problem. It is now well known that gambling has become an activity that involves very heavy and considerable health risks and not just for the latter. We all know that gambling is a social scourge that is affecting the national economy, as a disorder of behavior that, even if it still falls within the diagnostic category of obsessive-compulsive disorders, has in fact a great connection with drug addiction, so much so that it falls within the area of so-called addicts without substances. In the player there is a growing dependence on gambling, as he increases the frequency of the games, the time spent playing and the amount spent trying to recover losses, invests more than his own economic possibilities and neglects the normal commitments of life to dedicate himself to the game. Bingo, Scratch and Win, Lotto or SuperEnalotto, slot machines, skill games, all kinds of bets, legal and non-legal, are factors that are accentuating the transition from conscious and controlled game to pathological gambling drama. On several worrying aspects of our society, often linked to the economic crisis, a monitoring of the effects on the safety of the phenomenon of ludopathy has been initiated, in the areas of intervention of the directive on social distress that the Ministry of the Interior has sent to all prefectures. The text, which aims to prevent possible tensions on the territories generated by the economic crisis, was presented to the press on July 9 by the head of the Ministry's cabinet, Giuseppe Procaccini. According to a study by the Institute of Clinical Physiology of the CNR of Pisa, there would be more than a million students who last year reported having played money and, despite clear restrictive legislation for minors, 630,000 under 18 also bet at least one euro. We are all aware of the fact that the social alarm mainly concerns men, the unemployed and people with a low level of education, but it is not true: the audience of the players does nothing but widen, to include fathers in Cassa Integrazione, young people, pensioners and even housewives. We would be hypocrites if we closed our eyes: perhaps because the interests of the usual powerful lobbyists who influence the political action of the Government in the matter of gambling should be protected? We cannot accept, let alone allow, in Italy, with subterfuges that we all know, a campaign of fidelization of the fierce player, to the detriment of his physical health, moral as well as his dignity. Equally dangerous is online gambling, where the player becomes a prisoner of himself in the solitude of a room and a computer that is never turned off. To help these people get out of addiction, in the SERTs at the various provincial health companies, (ASP) there are teams of professionals, psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers and educators who deal with diagnosis and treatment and who are now well prepared for the treatment of addictions to drugs and alcohol, but not gambling. Because of the limited, if not limited, budget allocated to individual ASPs, unfortunately there is more and more an inadequate response from these services, either because of a shortage of staff, or because of lack of training and updating of the medical team, but above all because of a lack of places where it is possible to treat in a confidential way. It is not useless to point out that the subject with GAP (pathological gambling) is ashamed to declare his pathology, but above all for form mentis or cultural training will not want to be cured in a structure where drug addicts are treated. Perhaps we should ask ourselves whether it is not appropriate to set up, in the departments for addictions already active at each ASP, an operational unit competent in the matter of pathologies related to pathological gambling, for the multidisciplinary responsibility of persons affected by GAP, or to prepare ad hoc training courses on the treatment of diseases related to gambling dedicated to social health workers. It would be advisable to start serious collaborations with school institutions for child prevention activities, as well as to start awareness campaigns aimed at making it clear that the gambling tunnel can also be exited through the temporary recognition of the legal institution of the support administrator that protects the heritage of the GAP subject. Gambling is in fact considered day after day more and more, in times of crisis, a way out of situations of poverty. Only after falling into the vortex, however, do you realize that you have fallen into the clutches of a monster that anything can except lift up your own economy. Against gambling, links can be established at national, regional and even municipal level: together we must work to ban the establishment of new games with cash winnings, strengthen existing centres and assistance services, create a fund for prevention, as well as cure and rehabilitation from gambling, and protect minors, for example by reducing gambling times. We must not avoid identifying the real responsibilities, for example those which should be attributed to those who are often misleading advertising, who target the weakest groups. We who are part of the institutions should perhaps begin to think about introducing a tax on locals with slot machines to finance the care of pathological gambling, and provide the opportunity for the municipalities to regulate the playgrounds within the premises, or to ban the advertising of gambling, perhaps providing incentives for those who give up the slot machines or take them away from their premises. We are an expression of the State and we have a duty to respect the Constitution, which enshrined a clear and precise right in the first paragraph of Article 32: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. The government must commit itself to identifying the most effective line to fight the game. He cannot play dirty games even on this occasion: people who get sick expect guarantees, protection and above all recognition of dignity. The drama of gambling is a sad page of Italian history, which seems not to want to turn, for that contradictory, if not filthy, relationship between the supply chain of the game and speculative politics. We cannot accept, especially in a historical period like this, when the economy and the families are on their knees, that the government decides to facilitate the interests of the gaming sector. Similarly, we of the 5 Star Movement do not accept this Government's position on the megacondonance of sanctions to be applied to the bosses of chance. The issue, on the other hand, is much more devious and stinks of rottenness. We all know that the Letta Government, as a partial cover of the IMU decree-law, published in the Official Journal, has entered 600 million euros from slot machines dealers on which hangs a fine of 2.5 billion. In short, through a sanatoria the State would ask the ten companies fined at first instance by the Court of Auditors, which have already appealed, to close their slopes by paying just a quarter of the due. Just not to forget the names of the dealers fined, I quote them quickly: B Plus Giocolegale, Cirsa Italia, Sisal SpA, Lottomatica, Videolot Rete, G.Matica srl, Codere SpA, HBG srl, Gamenet SpA, Cogetech SpA and the famous SNAI SpA. It is recalled that the estimated erarial damage is approximately €98 billion, as a result of the delayed activation of the telematic control network. In fact, in the absence of misunderstandings, the Government has put its hands forward by making it clear that, should a development emerge that will not allow the achievement of the objectives of greater revenue, the Minister of Economy and Finance will be required to increase the measure of payments for the purposes of IRES and IRAP and, at the same time, excise duties. However, the increase in the levies of IRES and IRAP and an increase in excise duties will probably affect alcohol and tobacco and would remain without games, as they are subject to ordinary taxation and not to excise duty. Nice, isn't it? Dear Government, with all its valuable ministers, I have been asking myself a question for a long time: but did you not get tired of teasing people? Above all, can you look in the mirror every morning, or have you stopped doing it out of fear that it will answer you badly? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u67	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u68	Mr President, there is no doubt that there are problems with legality and a very complicated and varied market. However, in my speech, I would like to emphasise the issue of health and the dramatic issue of the protection of minors. First of all, we need to know that the addiction to the game affects young people a lot, even more the over 60, but for example online poker and online games are used in a way completely deregulated by minors. This is a problem that questions the civilization of a Parliament and a country. It is not conceivable, in fact, that there can be no methods to control (for example with the use of filters: there are many possibilities) the use by minors of the Network in order to be able to play. The guy who killed himself didn't happen to do online poker. And these situations proliferate. I think there is now a very dramatic problem: to remedy and establish protection for children. It must be clear that children must be completely forbidden to play in the halls with slots. This is a very complex thing, Mr President, because, while it is easier to see ban signs in the halls, it is very difficult to see child ban signs in the infinite number of bars where there are slot machines. The problem is solved by not doing an antian prohibition, but by involving the different actors of the problem, among which there are also the producers of games and exhibitors. It is useless that we continue to preach a role of school and family if there is no awareness and responsibility on the part of those who first manage these games. I think this is the second point that we must bear in mind. I wish we wouldn't use the word ludopathy anymore because it's wrong. When there is gambling addiction, which is a specific disease, our state must recognize it, and it is not at present, because it is not present in the essential levels of care, in spite of what has been said by the World Health Organization and the international treaties that define it as a disease equal to other addictions. I am relatively interested in the fact that there is a decree, which was not financed. I would like to see us funding the LEAs today and also put this disease inside them by having it treated by those who know how to treat it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have had a heated debate on the decree on prisons on the existence or non-existence of funds against drug addiction. There is a specific service - the colleague mentioned it before - called SERT; there is an Italian federation called Federserd, which brings together all those who deal with diseases related to gambling; there is a department in the Presidency of the Council that deals with addictions, and honestly I would like to know what it is doing - I think that sooner or later a response must be given in this direction - and there are regions, which have been entrusted with the task of beginning to study the measures relating to the care of people suffering from pathological gambling addiction. All this is completely immobile in our country. We also talk about the market, about crime, but we also think about the concrete life of people and the territorial and online services that can cure, as happens in the world, except in Italy because here it is much better to ignore the phenomenon or resort to the great problems instead of facing the everyday life of citizens. After all, the theme of gambling has behind it the concept of game transformation as entertainment in the game as a possibility of building a new life. We cannot allow this terrible illusion to take place in the citizens of our country. We need prevention campaigns, awareness of the use of money and also some courageous choices such as, for example, the player's card: a card that is like the player's tax code and has a limit - I repeat, limit - of spending, because any market has a limit. Very well, we are discussing the major issues of crime, a market that must be regulated and a state that must deal with it less hypocritically, but, please, let us not neglect the care of these people. Today it is estimated that 7000 people are being treated and is expected to become 50,000-60,000 in the coming years, but today it is estimated that there are 800,000 people suffering from gambling disease. It's an addiction to mental health. The World Health Organisation has been clear on this: health, well-being are physical and mental health. We don't get to the last moment, to a series of deaths from usury, gambling, despair. Let us try, for once, to put in place that prevention that alone can make a decisive contribution to the defeat of that illegal and terrible market on which too many people speculate in our country. To do this, however, we need a pact of responsibility, which can only involve the players of the game, starting with the great operators who can make themselves available to a battle of moral cleanliness, civilization, to give citizens a bit of hope and also (why not?) of a little health. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u69	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u72	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, since, as was clear from the debate, the subject is of great interest and the general profiles are widely shared, there is an ongoing discussion between the groups to arrive at a single agenda. I therefore ask you to be prepared to postpone the continuation of the debate on motions until tomorrow's sitting so that explanations of vote and the final vote can be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u73	Senator Ghedini, your request seems acceptable to me. However, the sitting is due to end at 8 p.m. and we must make room for the speeches at the end of the sitting. However, we would not have had time for the Secretary's reply, for the possible presentation of a unitary agenda, for the explanations of final vote and the subsequent votes. I shall therefore refer you to the continuation of the debate on motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11,
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u76	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the anti-gay law laid down by the Russian Parliament and signed by President Putin in recent months states that the propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations in front of minors is punishable by a fine ranging from 4000 to 5000 rubles. Those in public office risk a penalty between 40,000 and 50,000 rubles and a foreigner may also be expelled or sentenced to 15 days in prison. The law extends to the entire national territory a rule already in force at regional level in St. Petersburg and other major Russian cities. From now on it will be a crime to talk in public about the rights, loves and hopes of gay citizens. The definition of propaganda will give the judge the opportunity to punish with heavy fines anyone who wants to talk about the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender people. At this moment a vast movement of public opinion has been created in the world that wants to raise this issue, accompanied by statements by governments: I am thinking, for example, of the German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle, who said that this violation of human rights puts relations between Europe and Russia at risk. On September 3rd, demonstrations took place in several Italian cities to ask for a position to be taken by the leaders who will meet in the coming days in St. Petersburg. In fact, the G20 meeting will take place in St Petersburg on 5 and 6 September, and this meeting cannot leave the serious violation of human rights currently taking place in Russia in silence. British Prime Minister David Cameron said that in those days he will raise the issue before the Russian Government; President Obama will meet in St. Petersburg a delegation of homosexual associations. Well, it would be very useful - I think it would be necessary - for the Italian Government to also make a gesture in this direction. Today, Foreign Minister Emma Bonino has spoken in criticism of Obama's gesture that, in her opinion, in a time of difficult relations with Russia in the face of the Syrian case, she risks irritating Putin; but I believe that it is not fair, that it is not good, that Minister Bonino is wrong to put in opposition the necessary priority of attention to the Syrian question with the need also to emphasize the respect of human rights in the European space. I therefore hope that the President of the Council Enrico Letta will take this appeal to join Cameron and Obama in expressing with a gesture, with an act, also the Italian Government's concern for a leap back from a great European country like Russia on this issue; Russia that only twenty years ago had decriminalized the crime of homosexuality. A gesture would therefore be needed to affirm the need for respect for human rights as a necessary basis for international relations between European countries. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] Mr President, I ask for permission to deliver the full text of the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u77	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u80	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, as Members of Parliament, we have all received an e-mail from the Co-ordination of Fireworks Committees to highlight a very serious fact that has occurred in recent days. I am referring to the statements made by Mr Carmine Schiavone, a co-worker of justice, but I think it is right to read this note here in the Chamber: As you well know, I am the Senator of the Campania Region, in particular the territories north of Naples and south of Caserta, over the last thirty years have suffered a real, merciless devastation, especially for the systematic illegal disposal of toxic waste from the North industries and the fabric of the local illegal economy. This is an incontrovertible reality, established by parliamentary committees and competent judicial bodies, which only those who are in bad faith can deny. Entire populations have thus been condemned, for the next years and for future generations, to pay, with death due to cancer or other serious pathologies and malformations, the disposal of toxic waste at a "low price." This lucrative "business", still in existence, has also been promoted by complicity and connivances of representatives of the institutions, fueling the lack of management of urban waste, perfectly functional to the development of the criminal system. Just this, in our Region, has been charged to a people "ugly," "dirty" and "bad," irresponsible and ungovernable, offering in this way a perfect alibi to submerge us with toxic industrial waste. The chronicle of the last days, with the statements of one of the protagonists of this reality (the camorrist "collaborator of justice" since 1993 Carmine Schiavone), has rekindled the spotlight on the terrifying and turbid scenario of serious crimes, collusions and complicity, which unfortunately take away credibility from the institutions and the police. From the excerpts of interviews with Carmine Schiavone, transmitted by Sky TG24 of 24 August 2013, there is a reality on which Parliament must intervene with absolute urgency. Carmine Schiavone states that in the Provinces of Naples and Caserta, thermonuclear and toxic sludges of various types have been buried, also with the complicity of the institutions of the Italian State responsible for the government and control of the territory. The Co-ordination of Fire Committees, which represents about 50 associations and committees present on the territory, calls for the publication of all acts relating to the statements made by Carmine Schiavone... [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The Committee on Fireworks has asked us to take concrete action. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that I have requested from the House's historical archives all the documents relating to the hearings carried out in 1997 by the Committee of Inquiry into the waste cycle which are now secreted. I sincerely hope that the above documentation can be available to the Italians and I communicate that we of the 5 Star Movement, in addition to presenting an inspection act, will undertake every and every action to shed light and justice on the above. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u83	CAPACCHIONE (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague, Mrs Moronese, has already pointed out, in recent days the former justice collaborator Carmine Schiavone, who has been out of the protection programme for some ten years, has given some interviews in which he has made statements, partly already known and discussed in the almost new processes, that is to say similar to those already published in previous years. But beyond the merit of his assessments, it remains an absolutely certain fact: to date from July 31, 1988, until a few weeks ago, between the provinces of Naples and Caserta, in the areas of the famous waste area, where the ecoballs were stacked, and in all the campaigns that were of Campania Felix, as well as in all the areas that were used to emergency landfills during the period of the emergency waste of 2007-2008, hundreds and hundreds of drums containing highly toxic substances and even entire containers buried under the ground have been found. Among the most important findings, I remember the 370 stems found in a sand quarry in Capua and the 120, from Ukraine, found in Santa Maria La Fossa. These findings were in part random, partly due to the statements of numerous judicial collaborators and partly the result of autonomous investigations by the judiciary and the judicial police. We do not know whether there are yet secret declarations of some value made by some of the justice workers. I am personally aware, for having participated in those operations, that many interventions have been carried out on the territory, through very sophisticated and also very expensive research systems to identify these wastes, with results that in some cases there have been and in others not. As a Group of the Democratic Party, but with the broad membership of many other Members of the Senate, we have tabled a question in which we ask to know what has been done to clean up the areas that we know are certainly compromised and to belt those areas and prevent them from being still destined for cultivation, as well as what we intend to do to know if the latest statements made by the former repentant Schiavone are still valid or go only to fuel further alarm. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u86	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I quote: A special day with the pdl and pdmenoelle exulting for the ignition of the Parma incinerator against which the M5S fought using every legal form. They exult for the future cancers of the inhabitants of Parma, for the poisoned food of the Food Valley. Who will eat Parmesan cheese and ham stuffed with dioxin in the future? The incinerator is useless and will burn garbage from everywhere, but they are happy.................................................................................................................. If it were the words of a simple screaming, it wouldn't matter: an extra nonsense or one less doesn't make the difference, unfortunately, in Italy today! The fact is that, unfortunately, those who say these nonsense words are Beppe Grillo and the statement is taken up by the media around the world. Thus, all over the world, the doubt is insinuated that Parmesan-Reggiano and Parma ham are filled with dioxin and that the "poisoned food" of the food valley generates neoplasms; demential and disastrous, a similar message, for Italy, for Parma and province, Parmesan and Parmesan, entrepreneurs and workers of the prestigious industrial food system. A clear image and commercial damage. On the statement stuns the silence of the mayor of Parma, the spearhead of the 5 Star Movement. The responsibility of the function would have imposed much more attitude: the defense of his city and the condemnation, without either or but, of the words of his political leader. Courageously, in other cases, he distinguished himself and took a stand; why not in this case? There can be no such silence and there is no parmesan parliamentarians. And not only in the name of the interest of our area, but also, in application of the principle of Article 67 of the Constitution, in the interest of the nation because the slap and insults to the Italian food production system are implicit in this message, since Parma and its food valley are an integral and qualifying part of it. I would like to thank the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Di Girolamo, for his timely statement on behalf of the Government. I hope that, at the first useful opportunity, President Enrico Letta will return to the topic, perhaps with a visit to the same food valley. Mr President, let me make a final statement; it is shameful politically and ethically, even if it is the sign of the times, the use of an inconsiderate and defamatory act of this magnitude to lift the dust on the failure of the mayor of Parma's main electoral promise: that of not having the thermo-valuer opened. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u87	Mr President, I am speaking on the closure of the small courts. For the umpteenth time, we also raise this issue. In the course of this afternoon's work, Senator Caliendo called for a text which had already been adopted in the Commission to be scheduled in the Chamber: a serious text which calls for more attention to be paid to ensuring that this reform does not fall on its own steps, on some of the wrong aspects contained in it and which we have shown in a very objective way and without any bell-towerism. We call for the House to discuss the draft law already adopted in the Commission and to put an end to an issue that risks becoming disgusting and embarrassing in the relationship between Parliament and the Government. That is why we are calling for this matter to be dealt with at the Conference of the Leaders and for the Government to report back to the House, since not only has there been an almost unanimous decision in the Commission, but there has also been a motion approved in this House by 80% of the Members, who are calling for this reform to go ahead, but it is correct. The government, President, as you know, has an instrument to correct. This is a corrective decree provided for in the same law that had approved this reform. We have put forward a series of proposals, all of which are serious and acceptable, which are ready to be adopted unanimously. That is why we are calling for the Minister to come to this House and explain the government's guidelines. But above all, Mr President, through a very delicate function which is also the responsibility of the Presidency, we ask that the deliberations of this House be respected. When these deliberates are serious, founded and formalized by a vote, it is good that the Government adheres to them. For these reasons I will reject Senator Caliendo's request and ask that the matter be finally taken seriously. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Caliendo and Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u88	I believe that the Presidency should take responsibility at the Conference of the Leaders to ask for account and reason of the outcome of the agendas that the Senate - I remember well - and the House approved. It appears to the Presidency that yesterday the Presidency of the Council of Ministers dealt with the matter, having the opportunity to implement the interventions on the basis of the powers at its disposal. The stage of work we are in does not include the presence of a representative of the Government, who would therefore not be required to be in the Chamber at this stage. In any case, through this emphasis, we invite the Government to take into account the agendas of particular importance and the requests that I, personally too, will undertake to represent at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u91	LIUZZI (PdL). Mr President, a heinous crime was committed this morning in the city of Bari. Victim of Dr. Paola Labriola, 53, psychiatrist, public health official from Apulia. He leaves the husband psychologist and two teenage children. The attack took place, as I said at 9.30 a.m. in Bari's Freedom district: a difficult neighborhood, Mr President. Dr. Labriola was a civilian witness to the difficult battle of the state on the welfare front. Professional integerrima of the bet of the institutions in the field of recovery and treatment of pathologies arising from social discomfort and cause, themselves, of the social discomfort in the individual and collective dimension. Working colleagues, representatives of city institutions and ASLs, family members and patients bear witness to the great self-denial of Dr. Labriola and her high sense of duty. Among the people of the Apulian capital, there is talk of the remarkable professional and human skills of the poor psychiatrist murdered. A martyr of the psychiatrist on the ground; a public health worker who had a hard time explaining her effects on the territory. Was Dr. Labriola alone in her professional work and in putting her life at risk? Did he enjoy the necessary protections? Were you at the center of a sufficient security system? Were you in need of attention and certainty in carrying out your precious daily action? These are all questions, Mr President, which come to mind because of the role and function we play in Parliament at the service of the country and its citizens. We therefore express to the family all the indignation at the heinous act and solidarity for the serious loss. Dr. Labriola, among other things, meditated on the transfer from her home. She was despondent and, therefore, everyone was concerned. On behalf of the Apulian group of senators, we also express our condolences to the family. I believe that condolences will be expressed throughout the House, also through this message. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u92	The Presidency shares the sentiments expressed by Senator Liuzzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-95.ana.u94	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.34.
