ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 23 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Senator Secretary to read the letter sent by Senator Antonio Giuseppe Maria Verro, who received the Presidency on 27 May 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u4	==References====External links== Mr President, I would now like to inform you that I am willing to put the parliamentary term of office back on the grounds that it is incompatible with the position of RAI's board of directors. With the best regards. Sen. Antonio Giuseppe Maria Verro.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u5	As a result of the resignation due to incompatibility, the Senate can only take note of this. I would remind you that at the meeting of the Council for the Rules of Procedure of 9 April 2013 the powers of the Provisional Council for the verification of the powers referred to in Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure were extended until the formation of the Council for the elections and parliamentary immunities. I hereby authorize the Provisional Board for the Verification of Powers to convene immediately to proceed with the determination of the successor candidate to the resigning senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u6	[[He stands up and with her the whole Assembly]] Before moving on to the communication of the decisions of the Leaders, I believe it is necessary, and above all I believe it responds to the mood and feeling of all of us, that the Senate joins in the mourning and horror of the assassination of the young Fabiana Luzzi, a cruel assassination and the result of blind violence. Fabiana is yet another young woman brutally killed and burned alive in the name of a perverse idea of love; a crime fruit of the inability to consider women as people worthy of respect, dignity and freedom, seen only as objects to possess. The Senate will soon address the theme of the interventions necessary to stop the feminicide, a dramatic phenomenon that today appears as a real social and, first of all, cultural emergency. Today we share the pain and drama of the Luzzi family and the bewilderment of a community that must question the deep reasons that have caused a young man, apparently normal and scholar, to be able to make such a heinous gesture. That is why I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u7	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday afternoon, approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 6 June. This afternoon, after the proclamation of the successor senator following the resignation presented by Senator Verro, the session will be taken away to allow the Commissions gathered public works and environment to conclude the examination of the decree-law on environmental emergencies. The discussion of motions for the start of the constitutional reform process will begin with an illustration of the guidelines from 9.30 a.m. tomorrow morning. For the subsequent general discussion, five hours were allocated among the Groups, subject to the ability of each Group to use part of the time allocated to it to supplement the illustration of the motions. The President-in-Office's reply will take place at 3.30 p.m., with direct television broadcasting, as well as subsequent explanations of vote. After the vote of the motions we will pass to the examination of the decree-law on environmental emergencies, which will continue also in the afternoon session of Thursday 30 May. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy will answer questions on initiatives in favour of the development of youth farming entrepreneurship and on the reform of the common agricultural policy at the question time, scheduled for 4 p.m. at 4 p.m., on direct television. Next week, the Assembly will meet again from the afternoon of Monday 3 June. The calendar provides for the discussion of the decree-law on the payment of debts of the public administration, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the possible follow-up of the examination of the decree-law on environmental emergencies and the discussion of the Lucidi motion on the boards of directors of companies with public participation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u8	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting yesterday afternoon with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until June 6, 2013: [[Tuesday, May 28 pom. h. 16.30 - Statement by the President on the schedule of proceedings Wednesday 29 May h. 9,30 - Discussion of motions relating to the start of the path of constitutional reforms (on Wednesday) - Draft law n. 576 - Decree-Law n. 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures (It falls on 25 June 2013) Thursday 30 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 30 May pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy on initiatives in favour of the development of youth farming entrepreneurship and on the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy]] [[Monday, June 3rd pom. h. 17-20 - Drawing of law no. 662 - Decree-Law No. 35, payment of debts PA (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (It falls on 7 June) - Possible follow-up of bill No. 576 - Decree-Law No. 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures (It falls on 25 June 2013) - Motion No. 33, Lucidi, on the boards of directors of companies with public participation Tuesday 4 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 15,30-18 Wednesday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 6 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 6 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 662 (Decree-law on payment of PA debts) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 30 May. Time distribution for discussion of motions for starting the path of constitutional reforms (Exclude illustration of motions and explanations of vote) [[Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 44' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' Mixed 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 576 (Decree-Law No 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures) (8 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 44' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' Mixed 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 662 (Decree-Law No 35, payment of PA debts) (8 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 44' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' Mixed 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u11	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, on the decisions taken by the Conference of the Leaders on the timetable, I would like to remind you that the debate on the motion tabled by Senator Lucidi on how to appoint the boards of directors of publicly-owned companies (and thus also of Finmeccanica) has already been postponed. Since the assembly was convened on 30 May to decide on the replacement of two members of the board of directors of Finmeccanica, I had asked the Presidency (and I renew the invitation) to convene urgently, therefore at the first useful moment, the Conference of the Leaders to confirm on the date already set (i.e. next Thursday) the discussion of the motion relating to appointments to the boards of directors of companies with public participation. In fact, we believe that a possible decision by the House on a mere postponement cannot be made in vain, giving room for a company to act independently. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u12	I take note of your request, Senator Crimes, of which the President of the Senate will be immediately informed for further decisions. I suspend the session in order to allow the Provisional Board for the verification of powers to proceed to the determination of the successor candidate to Senator Verro. (The sitting was suspended at 16.41 a.m. and resumed at 16.48 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u13	Let's resume our work. I inform you that the Provisional Board for the verification of the powers has communicated that, having to provide, pursuant to article 19 of the legislative decree 20 December 1993, n. 533, to the attribution of the seat rendered vacant in the Lombardy Region following the resignation of the Senator Antonio Giuseppe Maria Verro, has found in today's sitting that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senator belonged is Enrico Piccinelli. I acknowledge the Provisional Council for the verification of the powers of this communication and proclaim Senator Enrico Piccinelli. I warn you that from now on, the 20-day deadline for the submission of any complaints will begin with the new one.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u16	Mr Corsini (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today marks the 39th anniversary of the massacre in Brescia. On these occasions I feel as if divided, prey to suggestions that often come back in the form of a nightmare from personal memories, since I was in the square that rainy morning of May 28, 1974. After all, "the angel of history..." - writes Walter Benjamin - "has his face turned to the past... But a storm blows from heaven, which is entangled in its wings, and it is so strong that he can no longer close them... And the heap of ruins go up before him into the sky. Remember and commemoration overlap and intertwine, therefore, in a tangle that is difficult for me to untangle, even more so if I think that we live in a time of remotions and forgetfulness so that the memory, at most, consists in browsing a family album, and we live that sort of presentization of the time that conceals the responsibilities of the future in prey, as we are, to the ineluctability of the future. I believe I do not offend anyone's secular conscience if I clothe a halo of sacredness the day that my city has lived today. Brescia is not immemorial compared to the barbaric and atrocious massacre consumed in Piazza della Loggia. In fact, there remains an inexhaustible relationship with that mourning and tearing event, which says of an inconsolable and unprotected loss for the relatives, for the children (among them our colleague Alfredo Bazzoli), for the friends and who at the same time nourishes the awareness of public memory, whose reasons remain in the conscience of each one alive and inescapable. This is especially because the massacre, as taught years ago in Brescia, one of the great good masters of civil life in this country, Norberto Bobbio, among all forms of violence is the one closest to absolute violence, is the greatest crime: direct murder, knowingly covered in the manner of its execution, but aimed at innocent people who die because they choose, as in Brescia, to participate in a demonstration convened to react to the regurgitation of neo-fascistism. It is a stragism that does not work in one of the many not places of the contemporary world, but acts in the square, by definition agora, the scope of the pronunciation of the word, for excellence the space of the democracy of participation, the typically Italian place of public life. And then the re-enactment of the fallen, for me united with faith, passion and ideals, cannot last sculpted only in the hearts of many, but it constitutes a shared and community heritage. [[Recalls of the President]] And here is the sense of commemoration (that is, of remembering together), because the open wound in the city is still bleeding: a wound that has never been healed and that continues to arouse anguish and dismay, above all a feeling of very vivid indignation, that indignation that accompanies the rationality of those who do not disperse and refrain from their dignity. This indignation stems from the fact that the anxiety of truth and the thirst for justice have not been satisfied; that truth and that justice that alone can allow us to reconcile with our history, to recognize the reasons of life, to continue to nourish and keep alive the criterion and the canon of judgment that allows us to distinguish good from evil, the truth from lies. An absence of truth that oppresses us, that makes us feel like we are defrauded. In fact, judicial investigations and trials have not yet identified a single culprit, a single executor, a single sender, a single accomplice: not a judgment passed in court. Yet, the historical-political truth of this massacre, like of the other massacres that have bloodied our country, is now acquired in its features and is the patrimony of those who seek the truth, know how to endure and do not fear. The truth is like memory: it is tiring.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u17	Senator Corsini, please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u18	CIRINNA' (PD). A little patience, Madam President. Mr Corsini (PD). Sometimes, in fact, we seek oblivion because if we remember the tragedies we have known, we may not be able to endure the past. That truth that must be sought - to use a category proper to Elias Canetti's Central European culture and literature - in the arcane empires, in that power that does not accept the democratic rule of its ability to act in public and to be subject to control. I would like to propose, in conclusion, a provocation. We've known red terrorism, the brigadist terrorism that's been tainted with criminal crimes and nefandi. However, thanks to the actions of the magistrates, thanks to the rules on repentance and disassociation, thanks to the investigations, ample truth of the horrible misdeeds of red terrorism has been brought to light. This did not happen because of the black massacre, because the political historical truth says that the massacre of Piazza della Loggia must be traced back to the initiative of radical and extremist groups of the subversive right, who acted - how to say? - in cobutta with apparatuses of the State unfaithful to the constitutional principle. So, the martyrs of Piazza della Loggia have fallen. The word martyr, translated from the Greek language, means witness: martyrs, therefore witnesses. To return to the sacredness of the relationship with the event let's say spes contra spem: hope against the death of hope, living hope, hope neither imbecile nor inert, active hope, hope that judicial truth is finally acquired and that our dead requiescant in peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u19	I would ask Members to stick to the timetable laid down in the Rules of Procedure, despite the importance of the issues covered by these brief speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u22	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I will be very brief. I always intervene about the massacre of Piazza della Loggia. We can only remember, but we should remember where the state was that day. The state was, indeed: it was present in the square as the agent of SID Maurizio Tramonte, infiltrated in the terrorist organization Order New; there was in the person of the deputy quaestor who ordered the firemen to sweep with the hydrants the scene of the crime; there was also in the hospital, where the crime bodies extracted from the bodies disappeared mysteriously. The state was there, but it was certainly not on the side of the citizens. The strategy of tension has served the state to influence public opinion and to divert the democratic course of the country. The massacres like that of Brescia enter a context made of attempts of subversion and coups that dotted the years of lead. Golpe like that of the Immaculate or like that assumed in 1973, when anti democratically wanted to transform the Parliamentary Republic into a presidential Republic. The same presidentialism mentioned in the plan of rebirth of the P2. The same chase today brazenly from the sides of both sides, right and left. We must remove all veils and secrets on the long chain of massacres that has bloodied the life of the Republic: these are the words spoken by the President of the Laura Boldrini Chamber. But we want to remember that the secret of state is not opposable in the proceedings for massacre and that if one thing recent investigations, done in Brescia and Milan, has taught us is that in the archives there is nothing that leads to an absolute truth. To say that if the archives were opened we would know the truth is yet another media misdirection on which to build false expectations, yet another affront to spilled blood. There is unmistakable evidence that the Services have covered dozens of exponents of black extremism, yet the archives of the apparatuses have been emptied, as the investigations report. Where'd those cards go? Who still uses them? What blackmails are they able to exercise? The Brescia prosecutor's investigation reveals that two exponents of extremism involved in the massacres, Esposti and Rognoni, have certainly had close contact with the Services, but in their archives there is none of this. This is the power that never dies, that produces itself over time, to protect itself and its endless games of mirrors. I conclude, Mr President, by recalling the victims of those years as they continue to hide the facts and protect those responsible: this is not the best way to honour the innocent who have put their lives away. We cannot rethink the country without first confronting the truth: telling the truth is always enlightening, said Aldo Moro, a victim of that unhealthy reason of state that still many tend to serve. Finally, I recall that on 14 April 2012, the Court of Appeal confirmed the acquittal for all defendants by condemning the civil parties to the reimbursement of the costs of the proceedings: it is necessary at least that the institutions take charge of it, if the Cassation were to confirm the judgment of appeal. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u25	CIRINNA' (PD). Madam President, I rise to report to the House that today we have had the hearing of Mr Chancellors in the Commission on justice. Thank you for the minute of silence observed in memory of the girl brutally killed, but I think we are all tired and tired of just making the commemorations. We have the opportunity to bring to the House in a very short time the bill on feminicide, which has already been deposited, at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Puglisi. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] Drawing of law that has already been shared with some colleagues of the 5 Star Movement and with colleague Mussolini. If we bring this text to the House quickly, on which there is already a sharing and from which the Istanbul Convention, which arrives in the Senate after being examined in the House, is removed, we can obtain the result of approving it very soon. I suggested to the Minister Chancellors a concert with colleagues Idem and Carrozza and the Ministers of Interior and Cultural Heritage and Activities. The bill that has been presented against feminicide is a broad text, in which we deal not only with criminal rules, but also with those of a cultural nature. We actually need not only repression, but prevention with culture and training, changing the heads of our young people. I believe it is essential, as requested in the bill, to obtain the spaces to realize the new escape homes using what has been kidnapped by the mafia, therefore immobile to be made available to the municipalities for the escape homes, and to obtain, in accordance with Article 90 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the recognition of the possibility of forming a civil part for associations that defend women in court through their lawyers, because too much is the solitude of women. I conclude by saying that we are considering in the Committee on Justice whether we should ask for further consideration of the too many cases in which women complain, complaints lie and then women are killed. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u28	Mussolini (PdL). Madam President, not only do I agree, but I strengthen what Mr Cirinna said. You rightly started the session with a reminder of this horrible crime. There's a lot of them now, too many. The House is ratifying the Istanbul Convention, but we must give answers, because the parties, therefore the Member States, not only ratify, but also translate into law the guidelines of the Convention itself. Among the colleagues of all the groups we were consulting to write a letter, on behalf of everyone, to President Grasso, but I believe that these speeches understand the need, urgency and urgency to address immediately, in the Justice Committee, the draft law presented, which I hope will be bipartisan and that it will be approved, certainly with improved amendments, unanimously. I am sure there will be the greatest convergence of all the Groups to immediately translate into law the provisions of the Istanbul Convention. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u31	BONFRISCO (PdL). Madam President, I think that Mrs Cirinna and Mrs Mussolini have focused the real point on this subject. I would add to their important remark regarding the transposition of the Istanbul Convention, whose legislative process is already in place, which is different from the very rapid adoption of the various draft laws already deposited in the Senate, as happened in the previous legislature, on the subject of feminicide, which no longer takes on only the importance of an emergency. It is, in fact, a real daily massacre to the detriment of women. The fact that our country is among the most flogged by this process must make us reflect even more on the need, as my colleague, Mrs Cirinna, has rightly pointed out, for an intervention. In our regulatory framework, many of these crimes are already foreseen and prosecutable, but then no one pursues them! That is why we are today facing an emergency, as is the case in other cases (the most recent last week), where Parliament must intervene because bureaucracy or administration - in this case that of justice - do not fully carry out their duty, considering these crimes of no importance and not involving that high rate of danger which is their own and which today lead to even gruesome phenomena, such as that which happened in Corigliano. I do not think that a minute of recollection in memory of this victim, like the others, is enough to answer the real question that rises today from Italian women. On the other hand, I think that our moral commitment is to transpose the Istanbul Convention and to immediately start a serious work and debate, including the hearings that will be needed, to call everyone to respect the application of the rules that already exist and to allow a law against this phenomenon to be passed quickly. I shall conclude by saying, Madam President, that we are obliged to give genuine and effective answers to the citizens. I believe that wasting more time on this front is really dangerous for democracy and its institutions. I also believe that between a law that defends women from this phenomenon and the many different mental illusions of which we speak or hear every day about institutional reforms, perhaps the first is more important, because there are emergencies that we must give answers immediately: and I hope that on this we do not want to delay, also because Vice President Fedeli had already promoted, in the past weeks, an appropriate initiative so that in this House we could quickly schedule that bill. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u32	Senator Bonfrisco, I believe that time is in our hands, so it will be up to the Commission to ensure very short time for the adoption of a text that can be examined by the House. We will therefore measure the commitment of all of us in these times.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u35	PALMA (PdL). Madam President, with regard to the timetable for the bill referred to by Senator Cirinna, there is no problem on the part of the Commission in dealing with it as a matter of urgency. The timing will therefore depend on the Bureau and on the requests made by the Heads of Group. In addition to that, I had asked for a different and basically, I say this frankly, reason to protect my freedom as a Member of Parliament and as President of the Commission. I happened to retable a draft law already presented in the previous legislature, a draft law which, with the agreement of the Leaders, was scheduled and was entrusted as rapporteur to Senator Casson. This is an extremely simple bill that tends to punish, by creating a specific disciplinary offence, the out-of-measure statements of the magistrates - exactly as the President of the Republic said in his speech to the Supreme Council of the judiciary - and to avoid the overlap between the procedure for the transfer of office under Article 2 of the law on healings and the disciplinary procedure on the part of the magistrates, exactly as stated in the decision of the Council of State concerning the Forleo case and exactly as stated by the President of the Republic during his speech to the Supreme Council of the judiciary in March 2012. Well, that is, in short, the draft law. I understand, Madam President, that the press agencies have argued that this bill would tend to block proceedings against President Berlusconi, block them for six months or have them transferred, or whether it is a rule that saves Ruby and anything else. Hence a statement by Mr Verini, Mr Bindi and Mr Di Pietro on accusations of incredibility, enterprise and so on. I say all this, Madam President, because in politics there can be criticism, even harsh, even harsh, but there can be no lie and you can't even go behind the lie without checking if what is written in an article is true. If all this has to be, as I say, a pressure, in my view unduly, to try somehow to make me think about my stay as President of the Justice Commission, I want to say immediately, from now on, that in so many years of my professional life I have not been afraid of things much more serious. I am a decent person, and as a decent person I will continue to carry out the task entrusted to me in the course of a vote in the Commission, and I will not go back a millimeter to that. However, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bitterness of being thrown into the wind by false news remains. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u38	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the city of Novara and its province, from which I come, have been deeply marked by a tragic event that took place last January: the suicide of a 14-year-old girl, Carolina Picchio. The news has been resumed these days following the first expressions of the investigations that are taking place. It's another case of a victim girl, even if of another kind of phenomenon. Carolina has been a student of mine for three years: a sunny and full of life from which none of us, who saw her every day at school, could ever have waited for such a gesture. From the ongoing investigation by the judiciary, it is increasingly evident that Carolina has no longer been able to support the shame of repeated cyberbullying attacks on social networks by a group of her peers who had targeted her. I would therefore like to stress that this phenomenon of bullying through computer means has been born in recent years and is being implemented through the new technologies available today - the Internet, telephones and computers - by children to other peers. Such behavior aims to hurt and uncomfortable the victim perceived as weaker; therefore, often the victim is a girl. It is clear that the revolution of the media system is therefore profoundly affecting the formation of children and adolescents, finding families and educational institutions unprepared, that - also because of the lack of familiarity with the new technologies - they are unable to address the complex and articulated issues that this phenomenon drags into the lives of the youngest, indeed very young (even of nine or ten years). Europe has dealt with bullying prevention action, considering in recent years the problematic aspects related to the development of the new media: thus, as early as 2006, the European Parliament's recommendation on the protection of minors and respect for human dignity in the broadcasting sector and the Internet urged Member States to launch information campaigns on the risks of the Network. In addition, the European Union's children's rights programme highlights the need to pay particular attention to the use of the Internet by children, considering that, from the reports we have available, the use of the Internet has reached 85% of children between 14 and 19 years of age in recent years. In this new experience in the use of the Network, children are rarely followed by adults able to guide and orientate it in a positive way: so, the peer group, that is peers, is the only element of comparison and learning, in the absence of supervision by adults. I believe it is time to pay close attention to this reality, because the prevarication of the weakest through the Network urgently requires the definition of wide-ranging educational actions, with the involvement of all institutional actors and the forces of civil society. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u41	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, allow me to look for your attention: I asked to intervene in order to raise awareness of a DIA problem, but I have to say that I was a little embarrassed about two situations. I certainly appreciated the high address of my colleague Corsini, but I also think that on the occasion of such an important commemoration it would have been useful - with a gentlemen's agreement, as is normally used - to hear at least my colleagues from Brescia, like myself or Senator Conti: we have in fact remained so, without being able to intervene in the way felt as we would have liked. After that, I have neither the knowledge of the Latin of my colleague Corsini nor the truths in my pocket that I heard from my colleague Crimi, but let me point out that both I and my colleague Conti are extremely sorry that we did not know that this morning the President of the Senate would go to Brescia for the memorial of the massacre. I believe that institutional correctness would have wished that at least one communication had reached us, while I did not find communication (and neither did my colleague Conti, even now). If my fellow Members agree - and provided I have left a brief space to say what I wanted - I would ask you and the House, despite their distance, to observe a minute's silence in memory of the massacre that has not been resolved. I think that this too serves as a signal from Parliament to look for the answers that perhaps are what Mr Crimes said or perhaps are others, but I think that we should also give a strong signal in this way. I would ask you this, Madam President, if you think so, otherwise I will continue with the part of my speech concerning the DIA: I am waiting for your statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u42	I believe that no one can object to this, and I also take note of your comments, which I think are well-founded, as a time like this should be shared by all the groups: perhaps there has been a lack of attention in this respect. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I also think that we should establish a method of communication, so that all groups know when there are moments of solemnity and commemoration of events so important to our history. I therefore believe that we can support your request. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]] Please continue very briefly, Senator Volpi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u43	Yes, Madam President. I wanted to raise the House's awareness of the situation of the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate (DIA). In these days, through a measure, the garrison of the DIA is closing in Malpensa airport. The Lombardy Region and all the Groups have today voted a motion against this closure. I am pleased that you, Senator Lanzillotta, are presiding today, because you will remember that in the Commission in the last parliamentary term we all voted together on a resolution that supported these people who work on the very delicate subject of the Mafia in a few and many times in dangerous situations. I believe that we must say no to any attempt to demobilise the DIA and that we must give Parliament - and I think no one is against it - a sign of closeness to people who risk their lives every day. Madam President, I know that you are sensitive because I voted with us for that resolution. All the Groups, who are also present in the Lombardy Region, today have carried out this act of strong witness to say that the DIA does not touch and its men are our men, our neighbors, our guardians against organized crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u44	I believe that we should also organise ourselves to monitor the outcome of Parliament's acts of direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u47	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking only now and briefly in this House to bring to your attention the developments of what happened two weeks ago in Val di Susa. A driver of one of the companies involved in the construction site of the geognostic tunnel TAV in Chiomonte suffered a rocker against the vehicle he was driving. On that occasion we condemned the use of violence against people as a method of opposition to a work that was useless to citizens and imposed by politics. However, Senator Esposito Stefano, speaking in this Chamber, and then in a press release, compared me and my Piedmontese colleagues to a gang of terrorists, or rather to the flankers and collaborators of these hooded bandits, as we read on his website. These very serious and unheard of statements, reported by all the press agencies, were uttered by the Senator of the PD for the mere fact that, according to his almighty knowledge and sensitivity, we had not expressed sufficient distance from that action a priori (and without evidence) attributed to the No TAV. The issue had had a remarkable media echo, also following the statements of the said and of the colleagues of coalition Cota, Bonino, Ghiglia, Saitta, Fassino, and for days was impelled on the media the thesis that the movement had taken a road dangerously close to that of terrorism. But here the altars are discovered: in the daily newspaper "La Stampa" in Turin on Friday, May 24, on page 45 of the Turin chronicle, in the report "The State will not leave alone those who work in a strategic work" we begin to glimpse a truth quite different from that immediately and vulgarly exploited and followed by the media. A truth, immediately whispered in the valley in the environments close to those of the worker object of the sassaiola. In fact, it is stated in the first lines of the article mentioned, signed Tropean, that it would be attacked by some hooded workers. Already the people's voices indicated, as authors of the sassaiola, subjects belonging to environments frequented by the same worker assaulted for the attitudes not really urban of the worker assaulted against the hooded workers. I repeat, they are only rumors and therefore I cannot know whether they correspond to the truth (it is likely that an investigation is being carried out). What is quite evident from the article of... "The Print" that I mentioned is that the fact foretold could not and cannot still be brought back to the struggle No TAV as, indeed, jumped on the front pages of all the national and local newspapers, and this with the contribution of the same senator. Already at other times Senator Esposito Stefano has been violently agitated to spread false alarmisms against the No TAV movement; behavior rightly stigmatized by the same DIGOS of Turin that has condemned the spread, by the same, of imprecise news about what happens in Val Susa and above all to make alarmism out of proportion, as reported in an article by the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" of 5 October 2012. We have been repeating this for a long time: in Italy there is a problem of freedom of the press, a problem known to international organizations that place us very much at the bottom of the rankings of the Free Countries for information (57th place), but even more serious is that politicians use and exploit such media for their personal use and consumption in order to reach their political goal and, perhaps, not only political. I have waited a few weeks to make these observations and I would like to refer to the sender, also on behalf of his colleagues, the accusations of supporting those who use violence against people. We hope that these methods of very vulgar political promotion will not be used in the future and we are waiting for excuses with equal dignity of diffusion compared to these grossly derogatory statements used against the No TAV movement and against us parliamentarians of the 5 Star Movement in the media and in the institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u50	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, I am speaking personally. I would have spared it, but at this point, I have to do a chronicle of which I answer and I am ready to answer before the only authorities in charge, namely justice. I remind Senator Scibona that in the last two years, in Chiomonte and surroundings, there have been dozens of attacks on police and workers, as well as threats to administrators in favour of Turin-Lion. The Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Turin issued about 700 warranty notices referring to representatives of the autonomous and anarcho-insurrectionalist area, against subjects who have always declared themselves, even in courtrooms, fighters for the freedom of the Val di Susa, in many cases using old schemes and old words of the seventies. Among these are some former First Line terrorists and Red Brigades, who attacked the prosecutor Caselli in court with the same words he was attacked with when he was fighting the Red Brigades and First Line (that, yes, they were really killing). I find it incredible that we use a phrase extracted from a statement from a well-known site No TAV, known above all for having claimed the attack on that worker and for having removed this statement twenty-four hours later at the request of the 5 Star Movement (or a well-known Valsusino exponent, Alberto Perino) because it damaged the movement, after having written that this worker was probably attacked because he had a lover. I believe that using these instruments in the Senate House is an exversion, dear Senator Scibona. [[Ironic comments and applause from the M5S Group.]] I repeat, dear Senator Scibona, that, as far as I am concerned, the only judicial truth will be that of the Turin Public Prosecutor. Attorney Caselli, on the occasion of the visit of two ministers of this government (i.e. representatives of the state, whom I recognize), said that the last attack on the Chiomonte shipyard against the police was attempted murder. If you are not able to distance yourself and make a reason for the words of Prosecutor Caselli, you may continue to flank the bad Notav, who do what they do without a word of condemnation neither public nor private. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u51	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-29.ana.u52	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 29 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5/27 p.m.
