ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 29 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u10	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as previously stated in writing, pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I would ask, on behalf of all the senators of the parliamentary group that I have the honour to chair, that the document of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities concerning the forfeiture of Senator Silvio Berlusconi be discussed today. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u11	Since the President has the power to determine the time when the request is being studied, I reserve this decision. In the meantime, let us proceed with the other items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u12	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII, No 1 (Report on Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2012) and VIII, No 2 (Project for the internal budget of the Senate for the financial year 2013). Since the rapporteur is not here yet, I call Mr De Poli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, I would like to put to the attention of the Assembly the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2012 and the 2013 budget, which is part of the 2013-2015 three-year plan. With regard to the 2012 financial statements, I would like to stress that the statement, referring to a financial management that falls entirely on the last legislature, has been approved by the College of Senators Questors previous with a resolution of 6 March 2013. I shall therefore refer to this first part of my speech, before going to the budget review, to the 2012 balance sheet figures, which show a positive development. Total expenditure amounts to EUR 520.625.482.26, down 4.7% compared to 2011. The 2012 balance sheet, compared with the 2010 balance sheet, decreases by 4.5 percent and exceeds the objective of 535 million that had been indicated in 2012 by the G100 agenda signed by the parliamentary groups and approved in this House on 3 August 2011: precisely, compared to this agenda, the reductions will amount to 18.83%. Before I go on to illustrate the merit of the 2013 budget, I would like to highlight the fact that this budget refers to a complex phase of transition from one legislature to another: all this has led to longer technical times for the preparation of a document that would ensure certainty of resources, on the one hand, and operational continuity on the side of expenditure management, on the other. On 20 December, by decree of the President of the Senate, on the proposal of the quaestors senators of the 16th legislature, the management of the forecast budget for 2013 was authorised, in accordance with the Rules of Administration and Accounting of the Senate. A total expenditure of €566,800,000 was indicated in the provisional financial year, an increase of more than €24 million compared to the total planned expenditure for 2012, of which €12,135,187.28 was added to the Staff Welfare Fund and an additional €8 million from the Solidarity Fund, a total of €20.3 million, as well as about €4 million for a series of expenditure slippages that went from 2012 to 2013. Starting from this basis and considering the overall financial needs represented by the offices and services of the Administration collected among colleagues for the purpose of preparing the final 2013 budget, it is possible to assume a downward revision of the initial expenditure forecasts. In particular, it is estimated that the overall expenditure forecast for 2013 is €541,500,000, or about 1.6% less than in the 2012 budget, which is forecast in real terms. Comparing the 2004 Senate budgets with the 2013 budgets, spending has fallen over the last ten years by 13.91 percent in real terms. In 2013, despite the passing of the legislature, during which there is normally a growing dynamic of expenditure (I remember that in 2001 there was a +14.25 percent, in 2006 a +2.88 percent and in 2008 a +2.11 percent), Senate spending instead recorded a reversal of trend, with a reduction of expenditure, attested to figures quite similar to those we had in the Senate about nine to ten years ago. Considering the rigidity of the main spending factors that make up the 2013 budget - 90.48 percent of the expenditures are quantifiable as mandatory - the Senate has achieved an appreciable result given that much of the expenditure related to 2013 had already been largely anticipated at the beginning of the year and that no longer revocable spending commitments have been made. I would remind you that the management of the 2013 budget began and continued under the provisional operating arrangements for ten to eleven twelfths of the total expenditure. Despite this, the Presidency Council, since its inception, has intended to distinguish the legislature in the sign of sobriety and improvement in the efficiency of the management level of the institutional machinery. A significant factor in reducing expenditure is undoubtedly due to cost containment measures taken with regard to the specific powers of the senators, and in particular to the holders of internal posts, starting with the President, who were adopted in April last year and who will produce a saving of EUR 4.6 million under the scheme. Another important step in the process of reducing spending was the agreement with the Senate employees' trade unions on the pay tables for new recruits, which involves a 20% reduction. Added to this is the turnover block, which reduced the number of employees by 32 percent, from 1,243 to 840, to reach the minimum threshold in 2015 of 800 units, with a reduction that will thus rise to 35 percent. Just in the light of the efficiency of the services, in close synergy with the Chamber of Deputies, we have started a process of reorganization of the structures of the Documentation Services, Computer Science, Logistics, Competitions and Contracts, Library Pole, etc. These actions began this year, but will have an effect on the Senate's accounts clearly from 2014. The forecast budget is part of a three-year expenditure plan, which in 2014 and 2015 indicates expenditure of EUR 541 million in 2014 and EUR 540,500,000 in 2015, with a decrease in real terms of 3.2 percent and 4.9 percent. The amount of the budget represents the weight of the Senate's budget on the state budget. In the 2013 forecast budget, the allocation in nominal terms is fixed at 505.360.500; a figure that will then be reported in the following three years. The budget, that is how much the Senate costs to the State, in other words the State's financial commitment to the Senate, is reduced by 21.6 million euros per year. The budget, therefore, in 2013 will stand at around 505 million euros - as I said - and will return to a level close to that of 2007 and, above all, is significantly reduced compared to the value of the budget of 2010, with 53 million euros less, and also compared to that of 2011 that was about 526 million euros, compared to the approximately 505 current. To the lower allocation of EUR 21.6 million, the expected savings in 2013 must be added, which is EUR 12.520 million and will lead to a total saving of approximately EUR 34 million only in 2013. In other words, thanks to savings and lower budgets, the Senate will cost 34 million less to the state budget. The savings of 12.520 million euros will be paid to the State in accordance with the decrees law. The 12.520 million euros of savings consists of reductions on the competences of the senators, the lack of contractual adjustment of the staff, the lack of contractual adjustment of the pensions, savings on the social security charges, savings deriving from the dematerialization of the parliamentary acts and, finally, from savings deriving from the disposal of leases and contracts utilities, for a total of 12.520 million euros. Therefore, between lower allocations and savings, the Senate will cost taxpayers EUR 34 million less only in 2013 and, considering the period 2013-2016, there is a financial benefit for the State amounting to EUR 100 million. Thanks to the interventions put in place in this first part of the legislature, the Palazzo Madama budget returns to the nominal spending levels of ten years ago. In view of the spending levels of the last ten years, the weight of the Senate's budget on that of the State has fallen by 12.5%, by 0.081 in 2004 to 0.07 in the total state budget. Entering into the detail of the forecast balance sheet, referring to the tables in the Annex, which offer a more detailed and comprehensive illustration, here I just underline the fact that some items have grown, while others have declined significantly. Starting from the results of spending containment, among the main items we record the economic treatment of senators, which in real terms is reduced by 20.9% in the last five years. This item includes the powers of senators, reimbursements of a kind of compensation, transfers to parliamentary groups, expenditure on secretarial staff for persons with qualifications, processing costs for staff in service, catering, transport and dispatch costs, etc. The chapters of expenditure on the increase instead of last year are all items related to the change of legislature: just think of expenses like logistic services and consumables. Of positive sign are also the expenditure chapters linked to the substantial turnover of political staff, i.e. senators, and the pensions paid for administrative staff. I recall that 113 senators ceased their term of office and therefore were entitled to life and/or pro-quota pension. Similarly, there is an increase in the expenditure on the retirement of administrative staff by 7.8%, although it has been offset by a reduction in the salary of staff in service by 4.21%. The expenditure items in the budget that show a positive sign compared to 2012 are not faced with an increase in the ordinary budget (the amount of which remains the same compared to last year), but through a restructuring of the revenue that takes into account the management surpluses of previous years, starting with those of 2012, which in the accounting were established in 23,674,698 euros. In relation to the provisions of article 29, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Administration and Accounting, a plan is proposed to partake of the operating surplus that includes the destination for specific purposes, such as the Personal Welfare Fund and the Solidarity Fund, for a total of 20,3 million euros, being a one-off expenditure and adapting us also to the modalities of the Italian public accounts, for example in the European framework, based on structural budgets net of one-off, which are among the revenues for direct commitments in the round. With regard to the expenditure of senators, former senators and parliamentary groups, in 2013 there was a decrease compared to 2009 of 4.6 percent in nominal terms: from €192.41 million in 2009 to €183.5 million in 2013. The reduction is therefore 12.2% in real terms. There is a similar trend with regard to the heading relating to the operating costs of the administrative machinery. The administrative machinery of the Senate in 2013 costs 191 million euros, compared to 228.50 million euros in 2009: therefore the reduction in nominal terms is 16.4%, but if we consider also the level of inflation the reduction is 23.1 percent. From 2009 to 2013 the expenditure on the competences of senators has changed. The decrease is evident even without taking into account inflation: we have increased from €49.9 million in 2009 to €42.9 million in 2013. If we take into account the level of inflation, the reduction is even 20.9%. We have a similar trend with regard to compensation of a kind. At current prices this item is reduced from 23.9 million euros in 2009 to 21.2 million euros in the current budget of 2013. In 2013 therefore, despite the findings made in connection with the passing of the legislature, the evolution of the institution's operating expenditure will mark a reduction that is in line with what is planned at the three-year level. Reduction of the office allowances and the economic allocation for the secretariat of the senators with the title, zeroing of the item "Contributions and subsidies" (EUR 420,000) in the availability of the President and the Quaestors, abolition of the reimbursement of telephone charges for the members of the Presidency Council and the Presidents of the Commission, reduction of the President's budget by 50%: all these reductions, and others that we have decided in the Presidency Council, have resulted in a reduction of total expenditure of EUR 4.6 million, equivalent to a reduction of 32% of the appropriations foreseen in the previous year. In the field of employees, guidelines have been established for rationalization and containment of expenses such as: the extension of the automatic adjustment of salaries in force from 2011 to 2015, with lower expenses of 34 million euros, 21.7 of which already realized; cut of the allowances of function (always for the years 2013-2015), that will lead to savings of 1,2 million euros; block of the turnover that, as I have said, has reduced by 32 percent the number of employees and will bring, to regime, a saving of 32.6 million euros. By the end of the year, in agreement with President Fedeli and the Presidency Council, we are carrying out the overall and structural reorganization of the Senate staff to give this institution a new organisation. For the College of Quaestors and for the Council of President, the figures presented so far are therefore a positive result, which nevertheless constitutes a starting point in the path towards a reduction of Senate spending, which can be further produced since there are margins for further rationalization of expenditure, with a view to greater efficiency of resources and considering the effective cooperation started with the House of Deputies. There is room for improvement in the cost reduction process, and therefore it will be possible to achieve concrete overall results by continuing the process of integration between the administrative activities of the two branches of Parliament in different areas, including those relating to documentation, publications, computer science, tenders and contracts. It is necessary to act by trying to sburocratize a system that needs to be modernized and renovated. It is therefore also necessary to reform the organizational schemes according to the adaptation to the needs of the two rooms. It will be essential to continue in the coming months the commitment also to the aspects related to the strengthening of the procedures of contest through the CONSIP, in order to realize savings in the supplies and the external services, focusing still on the dematerialization already started this year in the field of the press and the documentation, that it has brought savings for 500.000 euros. These and other aspects are important to transform the Senate into a structure that is more efficient, modern, functional and therefore less expensive. Among other things, we want to regulate the professional activity of our collaborators, taking appropriate measures to regulate the contractual relationship between senator and collaborator. As I have pointed out in this report, the commitment of the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council is complex, but I believe that it is indispensable and fundamental, at the time of the extraordinary economic crisis that runs through the whole country. In an economic context that is difficult, extremely difficult, for many Italians, this represents a moral duty towards the citizens, who look to the institutions from afar and often, unfortunately, with increasing distrust. That detachment must be recovered. It is obvious to everyone, beyond any easy exploitation, that it is necessary to continue along this path with further measures, even more incisive, with a view to rationalizing expenditure. It must be said, however, that any attempt to describe the expenditure devoted to the functioning of democratic institutions as a waste or a set of incomprehensible privileges risks fueling a dangerous feeling of public opinion, a feeling of hostility towards democratic institutions. Our main objective is to ensure transparency, rigour and sobriety, but without giving in to easy populist temptations, which risk only chasing the emotional wave of anti-politics and not responding to real and real needs. That is the commitment in which I believe, and for these reasons I believe that this budget is only a concrete and real first step in reducing costs. Only in this way will we be able to recover that difficult gap that today drives citizens away from politics, handing over and attributing to democratic institutions the right value, in which I firmly believe, what leads me today to strongly condemn any attempt to discredit. That is precisely why I want to express my personal solidarity with the parliamentary assistants and all the Senate staff for the work they do. Protecting the institutions does not mean leaving everything as it is, but starting a path of concrete change compared to the past. This is the commitment that awaits us in the near future: a heavy but necessary commitment. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and the Senators Colucci and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u14	The rapporteur, Senator Azzollini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u15	Mr President, the completeness of Senator Commissioner De Poli's speech exempts me from intervening on all the figures, because they are absolutely clear as they emerge from his report. I will just focus on a couple of issues. The first is of a general nature, and I would like to focus on it also for all those who usually write editorials without first reading the figures. The summary figures for the budget, read analytically, are as follows: From 2012 to 2013, in absolute value, we are more or less on the same level: €541,997,000 were for 2012, €541,500,000 we find for 2013. In absolute value, if one dwells only on that figure, the reduction seems very slight. In fact, a very significant reduction trend continues for the reasons that I will now explain. First of all, we have to make a premise. The balance sheet of the Senate of the Republic contains the items relating to pensions of senators and employees who are normally not included in any balance sheet. The budget: pensions, in all other sectors, both public and private, are not in the balance sheet of the company or the administration, but in the balance sheet of the INPS or other institutions that provide the pension. Instead, these voices are part of the Senate budget. These voices, moreover, are subject to a dynamic of automatic increase not conditioning, nor in some way manageable by the Senate of the Republic and, for it, by the President and the quaestors senators: they have automatisms, which must only be respected. If we look at these two items, we find out the following: in 2012 the weight of senators' pensions was 77.2 million; in 2013 it was 82 million. Therefore, the automatic increase, not dependent in any way on management, not subject to any form of flexibility on our part for this item is equal to 4.8 million. For employees the issue is even more important: in 2012 the item was 106.85 million; in 2013 it was 115.2 million. We are about €8.4 million, for a complex, between these two items, of €13,647,000. The reduction actually took place, in absolute value, for about 500,000 euros, which is the absolute value brought by the two 2012 and 2013 budgets, and 13,647,000 euros brought by these items, not manageable in any way and subject to automation, for a total of 14,100,000 euros. The efforts of the President, the President-in-Office and the Quaestors are, therefore, very demanding and important. To this must be added another significant element, on which I do not dwell, but which shows that this effort is, in my opinion, almost stress tests. To these voices, in fact, we must add, however, the wage dynamics of the actual staff or of some allowances, which also depend on elements outside the management. In order to avoid being subjected to stress I have not calculated this too, otherwise the reduction of the balance sheet in absolute value is even more significant. Mr President, I am saying this because it is right that you, as President of the Senate, first of all, but then also the Presidency Council and the Quaestors should be able to tell those who are talking about figures that must be read in full. Otherwise, if we want to consider them superficially, this is possible, but one does not say a true thing. Mr President, these budgets continue to be a serious and responsible trend. We are convinced that the ruling class must set an example in a period of crisis. We are also convinced that we can do better and better, but we are also convinced that sometimes the best is worse than the good. So, it's better to do it right. And I believe that the Senate has been doing well for years now, and it continues to do so: we must acknowledge this management of the actual figures. Mr President, I have already finished, it is pointless to continue. This seemed to me to be the general sense of the Senate budget and, having spoken of such large figures, I can manage with a final joke. Since, Mr President, I am an old man and I have some difficulties, you will excuse me, with all the electronic devices, which I do not know well, at least I would ask you not to restrict paperwork during the examination of the laws that we are obliged to study carefully. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]] As an elderly gentleman, in the face of the effort we are making, of which I bear witness and act together with esteem and affection, in the face of this way of conducting management, which comes from afar but which you are continuing with appreciation, I ask you at least to avoid being prey to the trend. We do things seriously, and we keep doing them. But, for example, for senators to be able to work comfortably on the laws, amendments, drafts of the Study Service and the Budget Service seems absolutely necessary to me. For the rest, Mr President, some services would also have to be considered - and this I ask the Quaestors - some of them. I am convinced that the more serious we are, the more serious we are and the more united we are, the more firm we must be in not giving in to demagogic effects that aim only to reduce the power of politics which, in democracy, is decision and sovereignty, as the people give it to them. There is no other sovereignty in a republican state: it belongs to the people according to the forms provided for in the Constitution and the laws. Reaffirming this principle even in small things, while you are serious as you are, is an important thing for me and I care very much about it. This budget goes in this direction, and so I think we must continue to act. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u16	Colleagues, I inform you that our work is being attended by the students of the Istituto comprensivo "Pietro Egidi" of Viterbo, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u17	I call Senator Bottici.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u18	Mr President, before I explain the reasons that led me to abstain from voting on the 2013 budget at the College of Quaestors, I would like to explain my statements that came out in the report service two days ago. As has already been said in other locations, and also taken up by Senator Questre De Poli, it was absolutely not my intention to accuse the employees of this administration, to whom I recognize professionalism every time, because when I close the office, at 21 or 21.30, some officials are there with me. And if they were offended by my words, I apologize. My accusations were directed at a political system that for years has created an ever greater distance between the Palace and the citizens. We of the 5 Star Movement entered as mere citizens. We are not politicians and we do not want to become politicians! I'm sorry! [[Protests from the PD desks.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). But you are a Commissioner!!! BOTTICS, Senator Commissioner. Yes, I'm also a Commissioner, of course! Personally, I found myself acting as a senator. He wants to change a sick system that has been emptying the pockets of the citizens for years. I recognise the merit of this Presidency, which intends to give a new direction of transparency to this political system in order to bring citizens closer to this institution of which we are all now part. It is my duty, therefore, to denounce the fact that the 2013 budget hides reality, since the real amount of Senate expenditure for 2013 is not 541,500,000 euros, but 561,800,000 euros. It is clear that the flagrant reduction in expenditure is the result of an accounting device, which has in fact moved expenditure and revenue out of the budget, which is normally included in the budget. This creative budget is nothing more than an accounting trick that has made it possible to achieve an imaginary savings of 20.300,000 euros. Therefore, the 2013 budget is higher, as expenses, than the G100 agenda approved by you in August 2011. If you do not try to hide, it would be easy to explain the reasons for the higher expenses and, as I remain a citizen and proud to be so, to show that transparency can be implemented, I will explain a few things to you. [[Comments by Senators Micheloni and Cardinals.]] Sonego (PD). Explain it to us for a second! BOTTICS, Senator Commissioner. I'll explain, of course! Where did the revenue from the cash leftovers from the previous years go? Where'd the 23 million of that go? Article 29 (5) and (6) of the Administrative and Accounting Regulation provides that management surpluses shall be entered in the budget chapter of revenue under the heading "Fund of initial cash". This has not been the case: mail has been transferred. This accounting game is worthy of the best tradition of the game of the three cards. Then they call it income restructuring! It's not like that. We spent 20 million more because in the past administration, under the presidency of Schifani, 12.35,000 euros have not been paid to the Employee Welfare Fund and this year we pay exactly 9,240,776,34 (to be precise), plus a share equal to 3,059,332 euros of competence 2012. Therefore, if a share is to be allocated that has not been paid in 2012, it is no longer a one-off measure, and therefore must fall within the scope of the expenditure. Also, we spent 8 million more on end-of-term checks. We paid 222 cheques; we had 8 million in cash and spent over 17, and we put them there. It was enough to say it in clear words and the citizens would understand it; instead, they always try to hide reality. A family knows very well when there are times when you have to spend more: just be transparent! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This Presidency has said that it wants to be transparent. I give credit to the Presidency itself, to the College of Quaestors and to the Permanent Representation for the staff's problems of trying to be transparent, but then we have to act and not just stop at words. In the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditures for the financial year 2012 were shown benefits and contributions for a 1,022,000 euros. I asked who the donors and recipients were, because it is public money: I was told that there is privacy. I asked if it was possible to ask the senators and recipients for release to tell who they had managed, who they had given and who they had received: no, there is privacy. The citizens outside, including us, need transparency. Let's talk, but let's do the facts! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As regards the 2013 budget, I would remind you that Rule 165 of the Rules of Procedure provides for the draft budget to be drawn up by all three Quaestors. Since 29 May I have asked for it to be put on the agenda. There was never time. It was only in the last College that we had time to convene at 2.30 p.m., at the end of the budget session, with the Finance Committee, of which I am a member, which began at 3 p.m. So, only half an hour to discuss, not only the budget but all the guidelines that the College of Quaestors should give. But maybe I missed something, since when I ask for documents some senators call into question the Secretary General to try to regulate my ability to request documents in single form. This is what happens in these classrooms. Like I said, I started with the best intentions, and I still have them. I ask the College of Quaestors to cooperate and really give a three-way approach to the next budgets, because that is what the citizens expect from a collegiate body. There are still many things to do: I offer my willingness to cooperate and I ask that we all do it together. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u19	I declare the joint debate open. Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators Quaestors, the forecast budget for the year 2013 shows, in its numerical values, a trend which respects the determinations made by the Senate Assembly on the agenda of the G100 on 3 August 2011, during the discussion of the internal budget for the financial year 2011. In fact, the forecast for the current year is fixed, net of the savings to be paid to the budget of the State and before transfers to the Pension Fund for staff completed and not carried out, in 541 million and 500 000 euros. A reduction of around EUR 50 million (approximately 9%) compared to the 2010 forecast, which confirms the commitments made when the G100 agenda was adopted. It is worth remembering that the operation of overall reduction in expenditure was strongly desired in the last legislature by the Democratic Party Group, which put the need for a strong reduction in operating costs, personnel costs, and a significant reduction in expenditure on senators, including through the abolition of vitality and the adoption of a pro rata pension system. On the front of the operations of reduction of the forecast budgets after 2010 it must also be signalled the decrease of approximately 21 million euros in the item of the so-called "attribution," that is, the exits of the State to guarantee the functioning of the Senate. On this line of expenditure reduction, the same result as the 2012 statement should be placed. As regards more detail the 2013 forecast budget in the summary framework of compulsory expenditure, in particular, compared to 2012, there is an increase of about 6.22% for the treatment of former senators and of 7.81% for the staff placed in quiescence. In this respect, we note the need to understand more clearly what the formal decisions were last year and this year regarding the integration of the Staff Welfare Fund. At the same time, the necessary intervention to cover the deficit of the last parliamentary term for the Solidarity Fund between the senators should be made more explicit. With regard to staff expenditure, it is noted that, despite the absence of turnover and remuneration adjustments, the decrease in the cost of staff in service (-2.40 per cent) is lower, in absolute terms, than the increase in the treatment of staff in quiescence. In-depth consideration must be given to the causes and trends in order to identify possible corrective action. Just as, for example, it has been possible to reach a positive agreement on the assumption of pay tables for new recruits, it is necessary to address with courage the sensitive issue concerning the legal and economic treatment of employees, aligning it, tending, to, with the expected ones for the staff of the public administration. With regard to expenditure on services and supplies, it is noted that, in the overall framework of a trend reduction of the 2013 forecasts on the final forecasts 2012, there is, however, an increase of 6.33% for logistics services, as well as of 7.82 percent for the voice studies, research, information and 6.46 percent for the item relating to IT and reproduction services. There is also an increase in expenditure on purchases of consumer goods and materials by 60.74 percent (from a forecast of around 844,000 to 1,357,000 euros). Finally, the forecast budget shows a significant reduction of 50% of capital expenditure, from a final forecast of 2012 of around €5,800,000 to a 2013 forecast of around €2,900,000. In any case, it is noted that the maintenance of the project to reduce expenditure for 2013 finds its particular specification - I believe - in the reorganization and use of the administrative surplus. This is confirmed by the fact that the use of the administrative surplus is largely intended to cover the so-called internal funds with autonomous management and budget, i.e. the Personal Security Fund and the Solidarity Fund. In taking note of this choice, Mr President, it is clear in any case how much our attention deserves to be paid to the fact that the restructuring of revenue is in practice a shift in the rounds of certain compulsory expenditures of the Senate provided for in appropriate internal regulations. An exceptional figure (underline: exceptional) that aims to balance the forecast balances within the spending reduction project. From this point of view, it therefore seems necessary - I believe, and I insist - to resume with greater determination and tenacity the thrust and content of the G100 agenda, since, almost at the end of the phase of the so-called linear cuts in expenditure, even if there are still open fronts of further and immediate interventions, in particular on the management of buildings and on some other chapters, it is now no longer eluding to tackle overall the issue of compulsory expenditure, placed still at 90%. It is a question of putting hand to a real industrial plan, which sets itself the objective of reducing the total budget guaranteed by the State, starting from the next draft budget for the three-year period 2014-2016. Colleagues, this is an extremely necessary field of action, taking into account the long ongoing crisis and the numerous efforts and sacrifices that the whole of the national community is called upon to put in place and to which the Senate institution certainly cannot escape, with a view to a substantial and progressive reduction in public spending. Such an objective, accompanied by greater transparency, must have, starting from the next budgets, certainly - as I said - from that for the year 2014, a broad and explanatory report and informative and supplementary notes that illustrate in detail the individual entries and expenditures: this, in order to make Parliament, in this case the Senate, a glass house, accessible even in the most hidden folds, the only way to restore a relationship of trust between citizens and institutions. In view of the achievement of certain objectives, it is therefore no longer possible to postpone the aggression - allow me to use this term - to certain centres of expenditure with structural measures. In this context, it is a question of redesigning the complex of treatment for senators, with particular reference to the accessory part, in a logic of complete alignment with the treatment in place at European level. It should be borne in mind, for example, that in many foreign parliamentarians there is a greater allocation of services rather than financial disbursements. In this context, the discipline of the relationship between senator and collaborator is a matter of priority and urgency. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Buemi and Di Biagio]] , to be dealt with also in a regulatory way, having reference to the experiences gained and in existence in other parliaments. It is also appropriate to open a serious reflection on the mandatory nature of inclusion in supplementary health care, given that this service is perhaps anachronistic in the light of other ways of integrating the services of the National Health Service which can be individually activated. In any case, in the case of the treatment of former senators, a remodulation of the benefits enjoyed by a first intervention concerning the contribution to the Health Care Fund could already be envisaged, including the establishment of a principle of progressiveness for the safe implementation of the Fund. In general terms, therefore, it is a question of rethinking the services provided to senators, but they call for an overall reorganization of the Senate both from the administrative point of view and with regard to the so-called functioning. In this way it could be possible to prepare the same Senate Services differently, reorganizing the time and spaces of the structure in order to better correspond to the parliamentary mandate. This requires, in the first instance, to put a hand in the organization of the current Services, providing for combinations and simplifications, including in the management structures, in order to improve their quality and enhance their high professionalism: in short, Mr President, fewer offices and more services. In this context, and in the necessary report that the quaestor senators will have to present as soon as possible on the results of the spending review carried out so far and on the current one, with particular reference to the races, the synergy with the Chamber for the rapid integration and aggregation of certain Services must be strengthened and developed: I am thinking of computer science, study services, the library centre, the Budget Service, which is called for to be activated with highly qualified and independent figures. In essence, concrete actions are outlined to attack, I believe, in a structural way the major centres of expenditure: treatment of senators, reorganization of the Services with a view to better use and enhancement of professionalism, amalgamation of some Services, also strategic like Computer Science, between Chamber and Senate. All the measures described will have to be closely linked to the objectives of saving expenditure to be achieved in each financial year in such a way as to allow the progressive reduction of the contribution of resources for the functioning of the Senate to the budget of the State. Finally, Mr President, an emphasis must be put on the chapter on the contribution to the work of the Groups, where there is room for further reduction of appropriations. In any case, we take this opportunity to urge that the procedure for assigning the position to the Group's balance sheet certification company, as provided for in the current Regulation, be completed as soon as possible. The College of Quaestors is responsible for the next few days, and in any case before the budget forecast that will surely be examined by the Assembly at the beginning of next year, to formulate proposals that illustrate the path and initiatives to continue in the containment of expenses and for the overall reorganization of the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u21	Senator Santangelo is enrolled to speak, who will also present the G4 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u22	Mr President, Senators Quaestors, colleagues, dear citizens who are listening to us from outside, I will present in my speech the G4 agenda, which I call common sense and which I shall submit to your assessment. The work of rationalizing the costs of the institutions (central and peripheral) is not only urgent from the strictly accounting point of view, but is absolutely necessary in order to try to bring citizens closer to the institutions, conforming them to the economic life of the country. The abnormous costs of our democratic and representative institutions, as well as having a heavy impact on the structure of public expenditure, are a decisive factor in blocking the Italy system, its internal competitiveness and its ability to attract external investments. Considering that, pursuant to article 1, paragraph 1, of the resolution of the Council of President n. 106 of 2011, for every daily absence from the sessions of the Shareholders' Meeting, a deduction corresponding to a fifteenth of the total amount of the variable part of the diary is made; according to the aforementioned article 1, paragraph 2, it is considered absent for the purposes of the withholding the senator who has not made to declare his presence at least in 30 percent of the observations; remember that paragraph 5 of the aforementioned article 1 excludes, among others, from the aforementioned survey the life senators who, therefore, perceive the integrity of the variable part of the diary, regardless of the absences from the votes in the Shareholders' Meeting; evaluate the total presence of the five life senators at the votes of the Shareholders' Meeting during the current legislature; considering that Article 1, paragraph 2, of the Rules of the Senate provides that: The Senators have the duty to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and in the proceedings of the Commissions, the agenda is intended to commit, as far as their respective competence is concerned, the College of Quaestors and the Council of President to modify the decision of the Council of Presidency No 106 of 2011, in the sense of including life senators in the scope of Article 1 (1) and (2) of that resolution. Translating all this into understandable words also to all citizens who are outside, to date the senators for life can be free not to participate in any of the sessions perceiving in any case entirely their own diary. At least one asks to apply the same deduction system that is applied to all senators in the same way. Going to verify some data (which should not be considered in a precise way, because maybe there is some variation), relative to the presences of the five senators for life in this legislature, there are percentages that start from zero percent of Senator Piano up to a maximum of 44 percent of Senator Abbado, to go to 37 percent of Senator Monti, to 19 percent of Senator Cattaneo and to 1% of Senator Rubbia. I regard the G4 as a common sense agenda and hope that it will be accepted. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Falanga]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u23	Senator Bertorotta is enrolled to speak, who will also present the agenda for G3 during her speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for the G3 is the result of a long-standing analysis and the maintenance of the promises made during the electoral battle. The profound crisis not only political, but above all economic and financial that Italy is hitting should give rise to in all of us the need to reduce those costs that more than others are seen as unfair and excessive. At the institutional level, we need to reform the system of policy financing, together with the reform of the electoral law and the redesign of a political-institutional system in which the participation and involvement of citizens and citizens become the cornerstone of the constitutional expression that sovereignty belongs to the people. Therefore, since the provision of Article 69 of the Constitution states that parliamentarians are entitled to receive an allowance established by law and that the law governing the matter is No. 1261 of 1965, according to which it must be the Presidency Offices of the two Chambers that determine the amount of the parliamentary allowance, with this agenda I wanted to indicate a commitment that gives honour and dignity to this Senate and to those who are part of it not on merit, but on commission received. In view of the fact that until now the Council of President has determined the amount of Members' allowances to such an extent that it does not exceed the twelfth of the maximum gross total annual treatment of magistrates with the functions of President of the Court of Cassation and assimilated and that Law No 1261 states that Members of Parliament are paid a daily allowance for the reimbursement of subsistence expenses in Rome, today the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement intends to commit the College of Senators Quaestors and the Presidency Council to determine the amount of the parliamentary allowance to such an extent that it does not exceed the gross amount of EUR 5.000. With reference, instead, to the amount of the diary, the 5 Star Movement commits this Senate to respect some points: the reimbursement as a diary must not exceed the gross amount of 3,500 euros, on the sole basis of the actual days of presence for each month in the sessions of the Assembly and the Commissions; the diary must not be paid in case the senator has been absent for each month from the sessions of the Assembly and the Commissions to the extent of 30 percent; the diary must be paid only after adequate and exhaustive reporting, published on the website of the Senate. On this last point, I would like to give a quick explanation. Reporting doesn't mean collecting receipts, but just making an accounting account of the expenses you face to stay in Rome. Recounting means, after all, showing how much you spend on a hotel or apartment rented regularly and how much you spend on food. Reporting means making an account of transport costs (so, for buses, taxis and more). In fact, I asked myself: why repay the expenses of stay to a senator if he never comes to the Capital if not to go to some other Palace? Why correspond the diary to those who do not show that they have entered into a regular lease? Or again, why reimburse transport costs if you do not use public transport, but rather blue cars? On these doubts I have built up the demands contained in this commitment. This proposal is not so far away from the words spoken by the Premier, by President Boldrini and, if I recall correctly, not even those spoken by you, Mr President. The 5 Star Movement, after all, has done nothing but comply with what is subscribed to in the code of conduct, which precisely in the part relating to the economic treatment provides that the parliamentary allowance must be 5,000 euros gross monthly, that the remainder must be returned to the State together with the cheque of end of term and that parliamentarians are, however, entitled to any other item of reimbursement including the diary as reimbursement of expenses in Rome. After all, with this agenda I have decided to share one of my wishes with you; my wish is called consistency. Yes, consistency, because one cannot be consistent only with words, but with deeds. And in fact, if you wanted to be, it was very simple to make a wire transfer. And don't tell us that you didn't have time to go to the bank; with all the banks that are there and especially with all the banks where your accounts are open, someone would have also allowed you to make an online bank transfer! But no, only we in the 5 Star Movement, we technology colleagues - as some of you call us - managed to make a transfer of over 1 million and 500,000 euros. How nice it would be to find out that some of you have made some savings on the Amortization Fund! Beautiful, yes, indeed a dream! And how nice it would be to leave our savings to the small and medium-sized enterprises fund. Yes, the dream of the Italians waiting for us, who wait for the State to restart the economy by supporting micro-entrepreneurship. Meanwhile, this government of doing is only good at talking! I take advantage, among other things, of this agenda to urge Mr Saccomanni to issue the implementing decree relating to the Fund for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. I remind this government that the ninety days are largely decent and that it is time to really do something for the country. Returning to my agenda, I would like to conclude by saying this: ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity to show respect for the voters, to show that we are different from the old politicians linked to the armchair and to the money, that we are able to change the overall remuneration of the MPs of the Republic without weakening the role, but with a single and simple objective, that is to give dignity and value back to politics, the coherent one. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u25	Senator Castaldi, who will also present the G5 agenda during his speech, is a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u26	Mr President, we all know, thanks to the first envelope just received in the Senate, that at the end of the parliamentary term the senator receives the solidarity allowance from the Solidarity Fund between the senators, which is 80% of the gross monthly amount of the allowance multiplied by the number of years of effective mandate. This allowance is paid on the basis of contributions entirely from the senators, to which 6.7% of the gross allowance is deducted monthly. Personally, I have the conviction that those who have legislated to date, obtaining magnificent results that can be seen and in the eyes of all, should give back the sums pocketed to Italian citizens. It is, however, acclaimed that all of you have been reporting on your television and newspapers for years the will, chattering, to cut the costs of politics. I am well aware that the ratio of the end-of-term allowance lies in the fact that it is granted to help honourable Members get back into the world of work, but I have a great deal of doubt, and I take the example of yesterday, when I saw Senator Niccolò Ghedini for the second or third time, or at most fourth time in this House in eight months. For him and for so many of you who continue to work in your studies this ratio seems really a soft justification to make Italians swallow, precisely in a very soft way, this gift of end of mandate, yet another waste of public money. All of us have also considered that for some characters who have been bivouacing for a lifetime here in this joke of ours, this agenda, is worth a well of money. We know that it is extremely complicated to parade the big dog's bone, but today we and all the citizens are convinced and happy to be denied. Therefore, with the agenda G5 we ask to commit the College of Senators Quaestors and the Council of Presidency to abolish the end-of-term allowance, starting from the current legislature, by allocating the contributions already earmarked for the senators at the entrance of the Senate's internal budget. I would like to conclude by reminding everyone that we have already done this: the citizens of the 5 Star Movement have already given up the end-of-term cheque. If you want to do one thing, you don't need laws: just do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u27	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak, and during her speech she will also present the agenda for the G17 meeting. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u28	Mr President, the G21 agenda on the dematerialisation of parliamentary acts is no small matter. That is why I am surprised that Senator Azzollini, President of the Budget Committee, is talking about demagogic effects and fashions. I would like to remind President Azzollini that, unfortunately, as Italy, we are the taillight in Europe. We have a very bad record of this, since we are the last, while for environmental infringements we are the first. We are very good with primates: this concerns both broadband and smart cities, and computerization. Yet, we know for sure that since 2005 a considerable number of decree-laws and provisions in this matter have been approved, not least the decree growth 2.0, which should have been the flywheel of our economy: we are talking, as far as Italy is concerned (so I am not talking about the Senate), of a savings that has been valued up to 43 billion euros. Therefore, I am still surprised - I repeat, and I am sorry that he is absent at the moment - that the President of the Budget Commission does not assess the importance of this figure and with his statements, after all, tends to slow down a process which is already very slow and which, despite the reminiscent legislative measures, is struggling to take hold. A saving of EUR 43 billion is not nonsense, although I must acknowledge that the Senate is not the last, among public administrations, to have achieved savings in this respect over time. In fact, I happen to read in the 2011 budget that, due to the dematerialization of documents, there has been a savings of 300,000 euros. We must understand that we are talking about money, that famous money that in preparing the state budget are never found anywhere and that then lead us to make linear cuts and cut expenses necessary for the country. However, I must declare myself partially satisfied by the last measure, adopted in June last, by Senators Quaestors, which provides for the award of a contract for the Digital Reproduction Centre. It is important to stress that, if this contract is successful, expenditure will be cut by EUR 2.1 million compared to 2010, because it will increase from 80 million to 20 million pages printed per year. I have to say that when I came in here I was frightened by the pile of cards that is being produced. It's probably easier to study cards, emphasize and rub paper, because there is a greater familiarity, but we are talking about real money, we are talking about an economic, functional and, not least, environmental benefit. In fact, we must not forget where the mountain of cards that is produced comes from. Among other things, I have to point out that I have had difficulty in knowing what percentage recycling paper is used and what percentage of paper is recycled instead. We are told that recycling paper is on board and therefore perhaps not good enough for senators. With the G21 agenda, we push Senators Quaestors and the Presidency to continue on this path, not to slow down, indeed, to finally really reduce paper, because if reducing from 80 to 20 million pages leads to 2.1 million euros savings, we are heading in the right direction. So we must not slow down, nor listen to those who say that it is demagogy and that it is fashion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u29	Colleagues, let's greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo - Goffredo Petrassi - in Rome who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u32	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Of course, I do not want to take over for you in the chair of the sitting. I do not even have the powers to do so, but I believe that the words that are spoken during this debate are heavy and find a very strong echo in public opinion. Accepting terms such as those expressed by Mr Castaldi, who said that there are colleagues here who have been living in this Chamber for many years, as if for so many years that has been an unproductive activity carried out by people who have ended up here almost by chance, without any competence, means accepting a demagogy that harms the integrity of the institutions and following a very populist drift that does not represent the true essence of democracy, which is first and foremost testified by the work carried out in these classrooms. I therefore believe that, without wanting to make a caste defense, it is appropriate that there should be attention to the words that are spoken, because everyone here works seriously and it is not possible to accept the logic that only someone in this House defends the interests of the citizens while others are here to bivouac, to have fun and to do anything else. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u34	Are you also on the order of business? That is, on the mess of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u35	[[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u37	SANTANGELO (M5S). No, Mr. President. I also feel like I can further strengthen Senator Castaldi's statement. Everyone takes their responsibilities, and there are objective data, for example those of the presences, which can testify whether the senators present in this House do or not, and with what intensity, their work. I would therefore say to my colleague in the League that he speaks for himself and not for everyone, because there are objective data that would deny it at once. I just wanted to make that point.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u38	However, Senator Santangelo, generalizations never do well, this was the concept of Senator Stucchi, and then if they are absent they do not bivouac (there is therefore a contradiction). Senator Morra, who will also present the G21 agenda in the course of his speech, is a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will present the G21 agenda. I think it is an agenda, in its simplicity, of great rationality and therefore of great common sense. With this agenda we are asking that all the production, to date enormous, even abnormal paper documents that accompany the process of standardization and amendment be transformed into another, since information and communication technologies allow us to do so. We call on this agenda to progressively move from paper to digitization, that is to say, to those processes of transfer of information which have for too long been evoked, invoked and hoped for, but never achieved. I come from a public administration that's the school. In the school in recent years we have on paper - I emphasize on paper - promoted the spread of e-books that are those electronic and digital formats with which, for obvious reasons and which we all recognize very valid, we have decided to marry ecological paradigms as well as economical of respect for ourselves and for ο I remind everyone that the noun "Economy" also derives from "O" and, therefore, to have greater respect for the environment and for the house in which we all have to be with respect means to have an awareness, not of what we should be, but of what we must be that very often latite. In recent days I have followed in the press, but not only, the reflections that an economic journalist has proposed which, in my opinion, has worked very effectively in recent years. I'm talking about Roberto Perotti, a publicist who is often present on the pages of the "Il Sole 24 Ore". Perotti pointed out that sacrifices can be demanded from the whole population if they are above all those who have the most privilege, who have more than others in terms of quantitative and material well-being, beginning to subject themselves to this logic of sacrifice. I have been in this House for a few months, but I have never seen anything in any school and in any public office, the card that is guaranteed, proposed and - let me say - wasted to promote a law, promulgate something that has no regulatory value that, in fact, will have very little effectiveness in our real world, because Italy is the country where laws abound because they are not actually respected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I conclude by inviting all of you to remember what a certain Occam supported several centuries ago: "entia non sunt multiplicanda praeter necessatem" (Translated with Google Translate) The objective and factual realities must not be inflated, or their loss of value. This same document, which has been made available to all of us, has on the last page of the cover shown the price of 2 euros. I would like us all to ask ourselves this question in the internal forum: if, for example, we start spending half and then next year half of half and so on, how much money could we give to real-life citizens who lose their jobs and who do not have the capacity to anticipate to their children any future? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u40	Senator Bencini is registered to speak, who will present the G6 agenda during her speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr Quaestors, Mr Senators, the work of rationalising the running costs of the Senate of the Republic is not only urgent from the strictly accounting point of view, but is absolutely necessary in order to try to bring citizens closer to the parliamentary institutions, in harmony with the economic development of the country. On the one hand, citizens are wondering how many and what sacrifices will be called upon to sustain in order to keep our public accounts stable, and they expect to know whether the resources will be found to safeguard all the exodus generated by the Fornero pension reform. And, always on that side, there are risks of jobs, fourteen, which will probably be removed, old age shots that are not recognized, social shock absorbers partly absent and partly not, and national collective labour agreements that are currently in balance; on the other hand, we are here to comment in the Senate's budget on the chapter relating to the treatment of senators ceased by the mandate, which provides for an expenditure of as much as 82 million euros for the year 2013. The vitality of Members - because we are talking about this - is, in the history of all parliaments, a guarantee of the freedom and independence of Members. Of course, neither do we of the Five Star Movement. It is established historically to remove any conditioning that the masters could exercise with the threat of letting die of hunger and jobless that battaller congressman or senator who had opposed the strong powers. It is not, therefore, born as a golden pension, but as a sacred democratic guarantee provided for Members, those truly honourable. We parliamentarians of the 5 Star Movement, who do not do politics for a trade and who hope to be able to return to our work once we have finished this service that we are serving for the country, should be the most interested in preserving this guarantee. But we are citizens, and we believe that this guarantee must be recognized to every citizen, because every citizen can oppose the power of strong interests and injustices and every citizen, parliamentary or not, should not feel called to choose between his own honor and the duty to feed his family: either the guarantee is for everyone or it is a privilege. And this guarantee for the citizen, which is no longer a privilege, has a name: the income that we often invoke, that is, the income of citizenship, a livelihood for those who have nothing. The vitality of Members of Parliament today, even in spite of the recent reform, are instead privileges; and hateful. We do not know how many former Members may have found it difficult, because of their political past, to relocate to the world of work; forgive us if we are populists and we believe that there are few. Most of them have probably been able to relocate after a parliamentary period. However, we have evidence of how many rich and famous people in business, journalism, union or judiciary receive monthly cheques from 2,000 to 6,000 euros. Are they a democratic guarantee €6,000 a month or is there something wrong? It is necessary - and this is what is proposed by the G6 agenda - that the senators who have ceased their mandate also contribute to the containment of the Senate's spending. That is why we ask the Presidency Council and, in particular, the College of Quaestors to take all necessary measures to: subject, as from 1 January 2014, the vital allowances paid to senators who have ceased their term of office or their family members to an equalization contribution of 10% for gross amounts up to EUR 90,000, and 20% for the part exceeding EUR 90,000. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. who will also present the G7 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u43	Mr President, I will present the G7 agenda, which is extremely simple: it requires half the contribution to the senators to be reimbursed for flat-rate expenditure, the famous general expenditure. This request is based on two considerations. The first is of course ethical in nature, although perhaps there would be no need to explain it. We know that each senator receives a net monthly sum of EUR 1,650 for flat-rate expenditure. This sum would allow a family to live in a dignified way for a month, and we essentially dedicate it to meet, always for a month, the needs of movement that we could define as residual and the support of telephone expenses. It must be remembered, however, that in fact - and this is also mentioned on our agenda as a note - the senators already benefit from free air, rail, maritime and motorway transfers thanks to their own personal cards. Taxi transfers, any rentals with a driver and much more are therefore excluded. At a time of crisis like that contingent, dedicating about 20,000 euros per capita per year to taxis and telephones appears, if not paradoxical, at least ethically questionable. The second consideration is of a technical nature: if we consider the world of telephony, we know that currently the so-called all-inclusive offers of the main telephone operators allow you to telephone, send messages and use data traffic without limits with an average of between 50 and 70 euros per month, even including the telephone in convenient use. Moreover, it must be considered that these telephone companies would probably be extremely happy to offer more favourable conditions to a customer such as the Senate of the Republic: just ask. On the other hand, I am giving information which may not be of common use in this House, namely that the use of public means is not precluded or prohibited by Members of Parliament. In fact, in addition to the fact that you would, and would all, set a good example by using a public medium, we would also contribute to a better understanding of the conditions under which thousands of our fellow citizens are forced to move every day, and perhaps we would also contribute to the improvement of the service itself. Perhaps, when a Member takes the bus, the bus service improves. We therefore believe that the proposal to halve this allowance on the G7 agenda is largely sustainable for every senator, without excessive sacrifices. At the same time, if the G7 agenda were approved by the whole House, it would be a good sign of this House's attention to the Italians who are experiencing such a difficult time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u44	Senator Buccarella is enrolled to speak, who will also present the agendas for the G13 and G20 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u45	Mr President, I rise to explain the agendas for G13 and G20, the first of which deals with the situation of the Senate's parliamentary advisers who are currently out of place. As we know, the number of Senate members is 113. Of these 113, seven are out of role and, more precisely, one at the Presidency of the Council, two at the Presidency of the Republic, one at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, one at the Ministry of European Affairs, one at the European Commission and finally the last at the Cabinet of the Mayor of Rome Capital. Always in the perspective that we are illustrating in all our agendas, which is the perspective of a realistic pragmatism, and not demagogic, aimed at reducing expenditure and optimising the operation of the Senate machine, accompanied precisely by virtuosism of spending savings, we ask that the College of Quaestors, together with the Council of President, want to evaluate the modalities and the times to make these seven parliamentary advisers, who currently lend their professional activity outside the Senate or, alternatively, to modify Article 50 of the Single Text of the Rules of Procedure of the Administration relating to the staff of the Senate, in the sense of abolishing the possibility, for parliamentary advisers, to serve in a position of out of the role while maintaining the right to the entire economic treatment charged to the Senate. The G20 agenda, on the other hand, presents another request for evaluation, relating to the conventions that this House has with some airlines. We know that, at present, the only convention that allows, in an easy and functional way, to be able to book and take advantage of the flights, is with the airline Alitalia, as long as it exists. We believe that a commitment that the Senate can conclude conventions with other airlines (of course low cost) could lead to a saving of spending, with equal functionality and effectiveness, also for the parliamentary work of those who are forced to return weekly to their distant territories. Therefore, the G20 agenda wants to commit the College of Senators Quaestors and the Council of President to the revision of the current conventions between the Senate and the airlines, also favouring the adoption of conventions with the so-called low cost companies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u46	Senator Battista, who will also present the G9 agenda during his speech, is a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to outline the agenda for the G9 meeting, which tends to commit the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to regulating the relationship between Members of Parliament and their collaborators. When I first arrived here in Parliament, I had to figure out how to put my collaborator in order. One of my first initiatives was to present a bill - the Senate Act No. 821 - on June 11, 2013 that did nothing but resume a bill that had already made a passage in the last legislature only in a branch of Parliament. We are in the 17th legislature, and we hope it will be the right time: in addition to changing the electoral law, perhaps we will also be able to do this miracle. For many years we have been discussing the need to regularise these working relationships, in order to overcome the current regime, which leaves the management of the relative compensation to the individual Member's total discretion. Here, this is a small signal that we can give, precisely with our collaborators, to the world of work. I think that at least we need to be able to regulate the relationship with our collaborator, to whom we may entrust the reading of our e-mail: they are often people who have one or two degrees, a master's degree, and who are sometimes framed with ledger contracts. It would be interesting for the College of Quaestors to carry out an examination of the reports submitted; we know that of our 4,180 euros we are obliged to report only half. In order to report, however, we do nothing but present a sheet in which the amounts are indicated; often they are items that refer also to the relationship of collaboration that we have made. Therefore, it would be nice to check whether the amounts shown actually correspond to the truth. I do not think I am saying anything new, because in the past there have been unpleasant cases that have affected the Members themselves. I want to make a specification of the partnership contract. I personally made a fixed-term contract because it is a regular relationship. There is also project collaboration, but it does not provide for a regular relationship. These are small signs, however, that we must give. I have heard that some collaborators are part of the national collective agreement: someone has to explain to me if we also carry out a steel, metallurgical or mechanical activity! Members have all the means to circumvent the rules. I am also making a small excursus of what you said, Mr President, in your speech on your inauguration. She invited everyone - I remember doing so with the others - to raise their eyes to the ceiling and read the words "right" and "justice". I believe that the meaning of those words is on the G9 agenda, and we can do a great deal. In the explanatory report of the bill I signed, among other things, I wrote: The full and complete recognition of the figure of the parliamentary collaborator appears consistent with the constitutional principles referred to in the first paragraph of Article 35, according to which the Republic must protect the work in all its forms and applications, and in the first paragraph of Article 36, i.e. the principle of the right to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of the work. Here, too, we could discuss how much a collaborator should feel. Everyone will give what they want, but I want to emphasize the professionalism, the qualifications obtained by these people and the hours they devote to this activity. We Members of Parliament - I do not think I am the only one here - would not be able to do what we do without the help and cooperation of these figures: for example, we would not be able to present questions, draft laws, illustrative reports, motions and amendments (even if we use the legislative office). I'd like to make a little reference to what Senator Stucchi said. In addition to the presences, it must be considered the activity carried out by the parliamentarians, and on the card of each of us it is written whether draft laws have been presented. Unfortunately, we do not take this into account. Of course, it should also be taken into account by the electorate, i.e. those who voted - even if they cannot express a preference - should be informed about the activities of the senators. If he did, he'd realize that a lot of people have filed zero bills. How many motions? None. How many questions? None. I also think that this is a more than valid method of evaluating a Member of Parliament: whether he should sit among these ranks without producing any act. I think a lot of you do your own business. I'd like to see if a business owner continues to have a partnership with a person who doesn't produce any acts. I think it is absurd that we continue to ignore this fact. On the G9 agenda, I would remind you that it tends to commit the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to extend to parliamentary collaborators the remuneration arrangements currently provided for the collaborators of the members of the Presidency Council and the Presidents of the Commission, i.e. the direct payment by the Administration of the Senate of the Republic of compensation established in favour of the collaborators themselves. In this way the relationship of collaboration would always be with the parliamentarians, but it is the Administration that within itself (I think of all the structures, the officials, the secretaries who can carry out the practices, how to compile the cedolini, the contracts) formalizes the relationship of collaboration once and for all, as already happens in the European Parliament. We cook a lot of things from Europe, for once we can copy a just one. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u48	Senator Crimi, who will also present the G18 agenda in the course of his speech, is a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to explain the G18 agenda, which refers to the chapter on Ceremonial spending and representation. It is an expenditure chapter with an annual budget of more than EUR 2 million. One of the items of expenditure covered by this expenditure chapter is entitled: • Institutional, cultural and social initiatives • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Behind this voice, which may seem to refer to a virtuous activity, in reality, precisely because of its genericity and discretion in the use of the sums allocated for this purpose (which amount to about half of the total expenditure of the Ceremonial), one can hide (there is this doubt) the will to give discreetly or sustain discreetly initiatives, one rather than the other, social (also need to understand against whom), things for which Senator Bottici asked for more clarity. This, precisely because you hide behind a voice that appears to be virtuous. Cultural initiatives well come, but which ones? Why do some yes and others not? We often wondered when we saw commendable initiatives in the Senate and others that could be more questionable. I am referring to book presentations or other initiatives. We ask ourselves: how many and what have been supported or supported with these funds? Just as we ask ourselves about any social donations. By the way, I'd like to make an inscription. In the previous year, half of the resources allocated in this chapter of expenditure were spent and, therefore, it has been proved that the allocation of EUR 2 million was too much: in fact, about EUR 1 million has been spent throughout the chapter. Therefore, to provide for a 50% reduction in the expenditure related to it in the forecast for the following year is not unthinkable, since the previous year was spent just 50%: it would simply be to align a forecast with what was the actual use of that chapter in the previous year. That is why we are calling for a 50% reduction in expenditure on that chapter in order to bring it into line with what was spent the previous year. Before closing my speech, I intend to refer to the other agendas which concern the reduction of the use of paper, this time not only for criticism but for praise. I can testify, precisely because I usually use it in the Chamber, that the Senate with the Tabulas application (a computer application that can be installed on all mobile phones, tablets, computers) allows access to all documentation in the Chamber and in real time always updated. For example, I have here at the moment the list of agendas that we are examining, the equivalent of paper that we find in distribution. Therefore, our request is not in the air, but it is associated with initiatives already laudable made by this institution, and of which, probably, there is not much knowledge. I therefore call on the Presidency to give greater support to the dissemination among colleagues of these and other instruments that are poorly used, which - I repeat - are commendable for their complexity, ease of use and ease of installation. This is to spend a word in favour of this institution, provided that we also go towards a reduction in paper, because if this does not also mean a reduction in paper production then it is a double waste: we waste resources on computer tools without any other kind of savings. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u50	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been over a year since - in the aftermath of the Fiorito scandal - Professor Giuliano Amato invited him to overcome the autodichia, i.e. the subtraction from the external law of the organizational apparatuses of the representative assemblies. Amato asked for the Regional Councils to be audited by the Court of Auditors, repealing the rules which they had "copyed" from those in force for the Chambers of Parliament. A year has not passed in vain: in the middle there was decision No. 10400 of the Court of Cassation to invest the Constitutional Court on the Senate autodichia. It is not only a matter of giving a "true" judge to the employees of the Chambers: in the order for dismissal the legitimacy of a "free zone" is questioned, within which the law cannot enter, unless expressly recalled by the Council of Presidency, which gives access to it time by time, as a graceful concession. In another Italy, the claim of a differentiated status, for the structures of support of politics, had a high sense, defendable in the eyes of the Italians. But, in today's Senate, what can be the sense of the fact that the maximum ceiling introduced by Monti for state wages, for example, or the discipline of the use of blue cars has not entered the Palace? Not giving automatic access to the law governing the functioning of public bodies and public administrations in Parliament produces waves of pernicious and sterile anti-parliamentaryism in public opinion. We Socialists are not present in this Presidency Council. If we had been, we would have voted against the constitution before the Constitutional Court against the cassation, because we also claim to be subject to the law of the management of the Senate staff. In this way the pretense of so many, too many fictitious positions would be publicly read. Not us, but the 5 Star Movement has a Senate Commissioner and a Vice President in the House. And yet, how did they handle this? Today, I have not heard of these matters. They followed the receipts of expenses reimbursements and the appointments of relatives carrying bags; they bowed to an anti-parliamentaryism of begging. But when it came to cutting the exception of constitutional bodies at the root of the law, they were all portrayed in good order: in the Chamber they voted, with the proposal of President Boldrini, to accompany the Senate to the Constitutional Court; in the Senate they had a former magistrate signed, who became President of the Senate (I apologize, President), an act of intervention that denies the bright considerations of his colleagues of the united civil sections of the Court of Cassation. We don't agree with this kind of goddamn thing. We believe in Parliament's unassailability for the things of politics, and we defend them to the end. But, on procurement or public employment, we believe that the Senate or the House should behave like any other administration of the State. In order to enter the law of labour and procurement into the parliamentary system, we have presented a draft law. It, like the precedents of the last legislature, brought before the Supreme Court, has the form of ordinary law, because we are convinced that to do this we do not need any constitutional revision: we only need to give common sense to these Palaces too, in order to conform to the criteria of more rigorous and uniform management of human and material resources. If the Constitutional Court will help us to assert here also within the rule of law, we are sure that Parliament will be more unassailable even to the presupposition of anti-politics. Here too, as in other areas of our reformative action, it is about changing or perishing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few brief comments. With regard to self-declaration, why is it not used, since at this moment it is still in place, in order to correct - for example - the distortions present in the economic treatment of staff, contrasting with the indication that it comes from common sense, but in line with the resolutions of the Constitutional Court? Why not deal with these contradictions in our autonomy? Colleagues, why don't we also face the differences that exist between us? I am referring to a differentiated treatment of justice between those who are resident, or in any case residential in Rome and those who instead move from the territories and must, of course, bear different costs. In the companies, those series, those governed by the interest of the master who fattens the horse, these differences are seen and applied for fundamental justice criteria. On the contrary, here in the Senate we are all gray: we are all parliamentarians of the same type; we are all parliamentarians who do the same things; we are all parliamentarians unworthy of representing this country, except for some, like my colleague Taverna, who yesterday distributed honest licenses to the right and left respect our opinions. MARTON (M5S). Shame on you! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I say that we absolutely must make a serene and punctual self-criticism about our conditions. I would like to make a brief remark to my colleague who suggested that telephone companies should give us Members special treatment. No, partner, thank you. I say no to special treatments, because then they ask us for something in return. Let's pay our bills. Let us do things in transparency: EUR 200 or EUR 300 is not the right thing to do. However, it is necessary to know that, in serious companies, the staff who travel is adequately remunerated, sometimes much more than the salary they receive. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I say that we need to clarify our treatment. I am not available to be considered a profiteer, as certain press and certain attitudes we tend to suggest. Those who do their work seriously in this House have the right to the dignity of treatment; at the same time, however, services are the fundamental moment of our action, not our pay. Our pay must be in line with the managerial treatments that exist in private companies and public companies. In fact, I say, colleagues: we are slightly under, because we are carrying out a nobler mandate, we are representing the interests of the country. At the same time, however, we must have adequate quality services at our disposal, and we can have them at a lower cost. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u52	Senator Blundo is enrolled to speak, and during her speech she will also present the agenda for the G10 meeting. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to OECD data, Italy is one of the countries where inequality has grown more. In Europe, according to EUROSTAT data, the metropolis are the areas where wages tend to be higher and where the distances between the richest and the poorest extend. The average salary of Italians is 1,286 euros per month at best, while new recruits cannot exceed 900 euros per month: a high wage gap, unequivocal, compared to the salaries of the Senate. Inequality, with regard to the current, growing pay gap between society and the Ministries, is not in itself negative, but should satisfy three conditions: society as a whole should be richer, there should be a safety net for the poorest and everyone, beyond the class, ethnicity, creed or sex, should be able to have an opportunity to improve their condition. The difference in salary between the same role and the different placement has always generated discontent, and the motivation, if not that of the protected class, is inexplicable. But if this has been possible in the previous years, in a condition of general well-being, it is no longer possible today, in the conditions in which the country is today, with a growing poverty denounced by Caritas (almost 1.7 million Italians are victims of the crisis and of increasingly bankrupt and harmful economic policies), a widespread poverty that is no longer concentrated only in the metropolitan cities, but also in the provincial cities, in the hinterland, and slipping into misery becomes much easier, especially for the middle class, sifted by the crisis, for the self-employed, who in case of loss of work have no protection, not existing in Italy the minimum income of citizenship, that exists in almost all Europe and that has been demanded by us several times. And they are ignored by the unions and the political class. Demands for aid from the age group between 35 and 44 are growing sharply; homeless people are also increasing. It is therefore clear that in the socio-economic situation in which the Italian system is located it becomes even more unacceptable and, I believe, personally difficult to claim a continuation of unequal treatment. The only way to combat the economic and value crisis, ladies and gentlemen, is to create alliances, to work in communion, putting at the service of the common good the few available resources left. The G10 agenda, which I presented, stems from these considerations and is aimed at a revisiting of excessive privileges, to rebalance the budget of the Senate and the State, but above all to hope for a social justice budget, with sacrifices distributed equally on all and not always on the weakest. It is undeniable that the employees of the Senate are characterized by considerable skills and a high professionalism, qualities that constitute a very valid support to the carrying out of the institutional activity. But it is equally true that the salaries of the Senate employees are not aligned with those of the employees of other public administrations. As a Group we are grateful to all the staff of the Senate employed in the various tasks, whose availability and professionalism we have certainly enjoyed. Therefore, only in order to rationalise the internal costs of management and to proceed to a gradual equalization of the salaries paid by the Senate to those of other public administrations, we ask on the agenda G10 the commitment of the Presidency Council and the College of Senators Quaestors to provide for a realignment of the current wage treatment of all the employees of the Senate with those of the employees of other public administrations, starting from the higher pay bands. In addition, we call for a halt to the increase in wages in the final parts of the career and a ban on overlapping employees in retirement pensions paid by the Senate with income from work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u54	Senator Petrocelli is enrolled to speak, who will also explain the agendas of the G11 and G12 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u55	Mr President, on the G12 agenda, we ask that the appropriate changes to the administrative structure be assessed in order to provide for the assignment of a single post as Deputy Secretary-General. On the G11 agenda, however, the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council are asked, as far as their respective competence is concerned, to take immediate action to abolish the 2-year increase of 2% (subline of the figure) relating to the initial remuneration of the Secretary-General. When I had a call from the parliamentary group yesterday to ask me to explain these two agendas, I went to read the texts and, with reference to the G11, I was surprised at the reference to a 2% increase in a salary every two years, because it seemed to me a little something. However, I was invited today to give a coherent speech in the context of illustration, also to make it clear to my colleagues what we are dealing with. In fact, I wondered what a 2% increase could be in a country like ours, which is too much for a few and too little for many. To look at it this way, in a somewhat aseptic way, 2% is less than the bank credit rate for a common citizen; therefore, I continued to believe that it was very little, and I did not understand why we had presented this agenda which calls for its abolition. However, if I go further and frame this request in its context, I have been able to verify that if the Secretary-General receives EUR 422,160 gross per year, an increase of 2% amounts to approximately EUR 8,400. Only this increase, to be seen, is almost equal to the equivalent of a year's salary of those who make demographic surveys with a co.co.co. contract, in addition working without holidays and without paid diseases, or equals more or less a year of social shock absorbers with which lives a cassintegrato or, more or less, the commercial value of a hectare of land cultivated by my parts. So maybe this two percent isn't really a quisquilia. Moreover, this increase is also equivalent, for example, to the monthly salary of a primary hospital, which, however, has a criminal responsibility for its role even when it is absent from the workplace. I wonder then: but if thousands of Italians who still have a job - because then there are those who do not - earn in a year less than two percent of the increase planned for the Secretary-General of the Senate, perhaps the example that we Senators of the 5 Star Movement giving back our surpluses is not enough; yes, perhaps it is not enough, and perhaps the example should also come from the officials of this institution. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time to start to stop being so greedy in certain situations; starting to quit is an invitation, it's actually almost an oxymoron. Begin to quit: the Italian language is fantastic. I conclude by telling you frankly that approving these two agendas would be a real, feasible commitment, a gesture of adherence to the reality of our country. However, I realize that I am going on a long way and, because for many people in this House time is money, I will give you a 2% discount on the time I had to intervene and I will end here. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Spousetti's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u56	Senator Stucchi is enrolled to speak, who will also present the agendas for the G14, G15 and G16 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u57	Mr President, in 2006, when I was Secretary of President of the House, I first addressed all the procedures for drawing up a budget for a complex institution such as one of the branches of Parliament. Since then, I have "exercised" in a whole series of initiatives aimed at achieving better management, virtuous management of the progress of the work, of everything that is taking place within the Parliamentary Assembly. Why? I already remembered then - and it is not nice to be self-employed - that citizens' money deserves respect, and therefore we must show respect for citizens by showing them that they know how to spend this money well, regardless of the economic situation in which we find ourselves. Today we all emphasize the fact that we are obliged to be very careful given the crisis situation that involves our country, but even if we were in a period of fat cows - pass me the expression - we should pay as much attention, because anyway it is always money of the citizens to whom - as I said before - we owe respect. This virtuous process, which began in 2006 with the first cut in Members' allowances, has certainly continued over time. Something has been done; in my opinion, steps have been made which have certainly led to improvements in the elimination of costs or in any case of expenditure centres that were now anachronistic. We have come to a situation in which basically, while maintaining a level of virtuosity with regard to the services that are provided, we have to make choices today that can still affect the costs that may be excessive, but that in part also risk hitting the real costs of democracy. And I think that this House cannot follow the line of those who think that all the money spent on democracy, so the cost of democracy, is spent unnecessarily. We must defend the correct and just, justified and justifiable expenditure that must be supported in democratic institutions like ours if we are to protect democracy in our country. So we certainly cannot eliminate all the costs, but we must ensure that all the waste is eliminated. We have tabled three agendas which basically go in this direction. The G14 agenda essentially requires that we continue on this virtuous line of cost reduction, while with the G15 agenda we believe it is necessary to highlight the fact that this virtuous choice must not penalise the functionality and level of the services offered by the offices of the Senate, because we must emphasize - and forcefully, in my opinion - the competence and capacity of our first collaborators who work within this Palace, for the fundamental support they give us in our parliamentary activity. The G16 agenda, on transparency and savings, commits the College of Senators Quaestors and the Senate Presidency Council to ensure that there are transparent races, which automatically entail savings for the Senate budget and, therefore, for the state's coffers. Having said that, with a bit of bitterness, I address my colleague Mr Bottici: I did not like what I heard you say the day before yesterday on television - we also spoke about it in the Presidency Council - about the fact that there may have been in the past years attitudes that led to the purchase of the silence of employees on who knows what happens, secretly, in the secret rooms of the Senate. The Senator made it clear in the Presidency Council that she did not want to say that, but it would be appropriate, in my opinion, for it to be made more explicit. There's no big weather here. It is not acceptable (I see you shake your head and I'm sorry) to talk about a ominous climate within the Senate, because that means that even you who does the Quest at the moment is not yet able to understand the operation of the machine and has not yet seen what may be the details that do not work, otherwise you could speak by providing timely examples. But if there are no punctual examples, if it is not able to bring to the attention of all concrete evidence, then throw easy sentences there, which certainly find a consensus in the public opinion, it serves very little, if not to create confusion. And we need everything except confusion, because it is a serious effort what we are doing, and we are doing it all together, following also the advice of the 5 Star Movement, for goodness sake, because we cannot reason without your proposals. However, we must respect ourselves in this dialogue, because if we think that we alone have the truth in our pockets (we are the bearers of the truth, everyone else tells a "history" that is not the true one) then we do not leave with the right foot in the confrontation that must be there. I believe that the employees of the Senate, Senator Bottici, have in the vast majority of the incredible skills that can find their implementation and application even outside these classrooms, perhaps with the same level of economic treatment, and perhaps even greater. There are employees of the Senate (without mentioning them) who have won more competitions and decided to dedicate themselves to this type of activity. We cannot make the whole grass a bundle: we must try to enhance these people and stimulate them to always work to the best. This does not mean that we cannot review the pay system, there would be more, but let's do it correctly, dialogue and relaxing, and let's not start immediately with the acceptance, as the public may ask to do, not being fully aware of the delicacy and complexity of the Senate machine and the entire parliamentary machine, including the Chamber of Deputies. These are the comments I feel I should like to make at the moment. I believe that some of the agendas that have been presented propose very interesting things, while others give addresses that are also bizarre. Allow me to take a couple of pebbles off my shoes for a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u58	No more than a minute, Senator Stucchi, because time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u59	Stitches (LN-Aut). Just two flashes, Mr President, and then a quote, if I may. Someone in previous years has rightly condemned the fact that our federal secretary at the time, Umberto Bossi, had bought a pair of shirts with public money: there is someone here who spends much more with the same public money and I do not see why, if there was rightly then a scandal, at this time a scandal should not be or cannot be accepted. In the same way, I recall that, in 1999, the son of an important leader of ours in the national Parliament was hired to the European Parliament: there was a scandal, the resignation of the boy was accepted, who found himself out of work; instead, we see that in this House some colleagues behave differently, and we do not accept that a bit of dust is raised on a behaviour that is certainly questionable. Double weights and two sizes cannot be used. I conclude with a quotation, saying before all agendas will be analysed - and we will also vote on those presented by the 5 Star Movement - because everyone has a spirit that can be shared in the objectives they pursue. However, to recall what should be the basis for a confrontation, which must first be frank and humble, I recall the Senate of the United States, whose first president was John Adams. At the first sitting, a fellow, Thomas Jefferson, intervened, and recalling what the working methods were supposed to be in that Chamber, said: "He who receives an idea from me gains knowledge without diminishing mine; as he who lights his candle with mine receives light without leaving me in the dark." We all need to confront ourselves, to do a sort of brainstorming and put together the best ideas to do the common good, which in this case is to get the best possible result with the lowest possible expense. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Di Giorgi and Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u60	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u61	Mr President, Mr Quaestors, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to be able to make this brief speech only in order to put on the record some firm points that I believe we should all be very much aware of, we senators in the management of the respective Groups and the Presidency and the Quaestors senators in their function of day-to-day and punctual control over the correctness of the administration of the Groups themselves. The Parliamentary Group is a legal entity, so to speak, amphibious: it is the holder of legal relations under private law since it is issued by the party, i.e. a non-recognized association in the case referred to in Article 36 of the Civil Code, but it operates almost exclusively through public financing, i.e. the contribution that is paid by the Senate. In order to reconcile these two peculiar features of this apparently conflicting legal figure, i.e. to reconcile the freedom of management proper to the subject of private law with the obvious need to prevent the abuse of public money, last year we introduced a rule in our Rules of Procedure which requires the total transparency of the administration of the Groups and more precisely the publication on the website of each Group of each item of expenditure. Publication of each item of expenditure is that of each payment it must be immediately known by anyone not only the amount of the payment itself but also its recipient. Here I must point out that it is not the correct fulfilment of this obligation which the Regulation imposes on each Group the mere publication of the Group's balance sheet with aggregate expenditure items. I am amazing to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement Group, who should be the first to comply with this rule, in order to be consistent with certain principles which they meritoriously affirm; instead, on the website of their Chamber Group I find only the balance sheet published with the aggregate items. Let me give an example: when the 5 Star Movement indicates, with an aggregate item, 22,000 euros of consulting expenses, this is not fulfilling a regulatory obligation that requires that any advice is known who is the perpetrator of this payment. I therefore invite my colleagues from the 5 Star Movement Group to do as much as the other Groups, such as the League, Civic Choice for Italy and the Democratic Party, have done by publishing each item of spending the entity and the recipient. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, the most serious point - if I have not missed something, but I assure you that I have looked very carefully on the web - is that of the People of Freedom Group, for which I have not found any page that offers transparency of expenses. I would ask, however, that the Presidency and the Quaestors call every group to strict compliance with its obligation. Perhaps it would be worth setting up a sanction, which we did not consider to be a sanction last year. According to logic, this sanction should be the suspension of the provision of the contribution to those who do not comply with this basic and fundamental rule of full disclosure. I would also like to make a final remark concerning the employees of the Groups. It must be reiterated that these are private-law employment relationships which are wholly and completely subject to the general discipline of private-law employment relationships and which do not have any internal stability clause. The fact that the presidency of the Senate has considered from 1993 onwards, at each legislative change to have a particular mechanism of mobility between the groups in favour of the employees of Groups who are extinct at the transition from the old to the new legislature, does not constitute a matter of stability within the working relationship. It is, that is, a providence that is entirely outside the contractual relationship, outside the structure of the employment relationship; it is not a measure that has the effect of guaranteeing any stability to these relationships which, by their nature, it is right that they be established in the form of forward working relationships, since the Group is born, in the aftermath of the beginning of the parliamentary term and is dissolved at the end of the parliamentary term, of Parliament. Allow me, in conclusion, to express the hope that the Presidency will review and reconsider that mechanism, that providence which at every change in the legislature was prepared to ensure continuity of work or income for the employees of the Groups. If the Group is issued by the party, the employee of the Group must have the same fate and the same risks as the employees of any party; it is not clear why if the employee of a private company risks losing his job at the time of the bankruptcy or closure of his employer, the same thing should not happen for the employee of a political party, except of course the treatment of unemployment that everyone is owed. I believe that, from the point of view of the revision and critical examination of those who have perhaps been hastily called privileges of the caste of politicians, the resolutions repeatedly and systematically renewed by the presidency of the Senate, as well as that of the House, are one of the elements that must be reviewed and rethought. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u62	Senator Cioffi is a member of the Committee, who will also present the G19 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u63	Mr President, I will present the agenda for G19, but I would like to start by thanking Senator Ichino, who is right to flea everyone. It is good that we are told that our way of presenting the Group's budget is not exactly in line with the rule, but it is very nice that we did not take public contributions, while all of you took them. So, is it form or substance? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Forgive me. It was just a note. [[Comments of Senator Ichino]] There is a problem of form and substance, I wanted to reiterate that. Coming on the agenda, the budget includes EUR 1,744,000 which we spend on contributions and subsidies and we ask that they be reduced by 50%, especially with regard to contributions for cultural foundations, other subjects and third parties - the word "third parties" is beautiful, but we do not know who they are and what it means - and contributions for the circle of Palazzo Madama, which I personally do not know what it is. If I think about the circle of Palazzo Madama, I can think of the train after work. What's it gonna be? Do we play bowls? I don't know and I wonder what it's for, also because, if we have to give contributions for a circle, we do so (The Senator shows an image from the monitor of his tablet): we put the shoebox and collect contributions from the people who come; we self-finance. It would be interesting to check how we do it and maybe all of us do it. When we read cultural foundations, we agree if they are funds given to culture; but if so, let us put it in a law: let us make a chapter of expenditure. I have the utmost confidence in what the Presidency Council is doing (there would be no more!) But, in short, we give money to a group of people who decide for everyone. Surely they will decide for the best, but let's try to make sure that it is not a thing like the tip law, in which every senator and congressman asks 100,000 euros for his own municipality, in short of the prebende variously distributed. Let us try to reduce these things because in the end they do not bring substance. The words "other subjects" and "third parties" should also be deleted. Let's take out all these little hairs and bows that don't need. There are so many things to do and work on that it is more important to remove the bow and try to make sure that there is something in the box; we take a nice box, we put the stuff in and remove the bows that may not be needed. Simply this. We have spoken so much that the interest of this House is obviously gone, so let us try to get to the point and eliminate all these unnecessary things. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u64	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u65	Mr President, this is the first account of the Senate's revenue and expenditure in this parliamentary term, and yet I find it quite clear that it links it with at least the last three precedents, which are going in the direction of giving back in a concrete way not only the necessary transparency, but also the sobriety in the administration of the Senate's resources. There are many interventions to cut unnecessary expenses. Rationalisation has made substantial progress: I believe that there is an extremely positive assessment to be made and that we welcome the work done by the Quaestors. I'm just making two solicitations that start with a premise. In this case, too, we must make a serious and responsible policy of cutting waste and waste, but taking care not to cut those benefits and working conditions which are an important precondition for the proper conduct of parliamentary activity. I am referring to two points in particular. First, have the goodness to give back to the senators the Sala Maccari: there is no space, there is no corner where the senators, when they need it, can stop for reading a newspaper or for the need to consult their e-mail. We would need to see a right restored that we had up to a year and a half ago and then, unmistakably, it was suppressed. Secondly, whatever you say, we work here, and very often we work at the times that follow or precede the work of the House and the Commission. I kindly invite you to check the possibility that you can hold back even beyond 10 p.m. In fact, when we find ourselves in our studies to deepen the text of a bill or an intervention that must be done the next day in the Chamber, we have the need to take into account that the doors close at 22, in fact depriving the senator of the possibility to use his own study and all the means, even technological, that are available there, as well as documentation. If the quaestor senators want to take care to devote attention to these aspects, they will not only receive the gratitude of the senators, but will allow them to carry out their activities more fruitfully for the benefit of parliamentary activity for the good of the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u66	Senator Pizzetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u67	Mr President, the G1 agenda, which I would like to highlight, makes sense of the whole work done by the Senate staff, the Presidency Council, the College of Quaestors and in its entirety, apart from the different opinions that have then been expressed. There are many ways to talk to the country. There is a screaming policy, which urges and tickles deep feelings of deference to politics, which is more than a classic anti-political attitude: it is the negation of the very function of politics; it exalts its great defects, which exist, not to eliminate its excrescences but to cut the root itself. It is the hidden peroration of the absolute rule. Behind the act of claiming the absolute rule there is in fact the certainty that under it everything is possible, simply because the absolute rule does not exist. The theme then is not that of a democracy that is unregulated with politics as an appendage, perhaps irrelevant: perhaps this belongs to the regimes of popular democracy and not to the institutions of republican democracy. I think there is only one way to serve the country and republican democracy: bringing together institutions and people in a national civic sense, a new national civic sense. This is the way to regain credibility and authority of the republican institution and politics, behavior, language of truth, and reforms. This is a review of reforms that not only cuts, but generates reforms, and also prepares us for the logic of constitutional reforms that will change the role of the Senate itself. Therefore, the issue of greater integration of services with the Chamber of Deputies is not only an accounting or savings data, but is a political feature of predisposition to constitutional reform. Unlike what has been done elsewhere, the cuts are not linear but selective, for 100 million euros over the three years, for the benefit of the public budget, without compromising and actually enhancing the sense of this institution and also putting into account a sort - I call it this - of passive survivals of this budget, to which Mrs Bottici referred, without which it would have been even more positive. These cuts concern the reduction of staff of 400 units; the redefinition of the treatment of employees in agreement - I insist - with the trade union organizations, also considering further the persons who have already completed the pension requirements; the intervention on the resources available to the members of the Senate bodies; the intervention on the economic treatment of senators, the pension scheme and the vitality; the interventions to be further implemented on the vitality of former senators and on the contribution to the balance of the health service (the health service is put in balance on the sole benefits of senators and former senators). There is also a serious improvement in the organisation of services and there are reforms: the adjustment of allowances and services to parliamentarians from other equivalent countries, intervening on the various factors (e.g. more services in relation to a reduction of emoluments); the better and more efficient management of seats; the greater transparency in a systemic logic in the management of services and races; the integration, which I have already recalled, between the Chamber and the Senate; the protection of the functions of the parliamentary collaborator (for the first time inserted and considered); the redefinition of the treatment of staff, in harmony with the Chamber of Deputies and considering the need for rebalancing compared to other treatments in the public administration. I mean, this is a non-castal budget. The term "casta" is certainly very allusive in the negative sense, but it is undoubtedly contrary to the reality that emerges from this budget. In conclusion, I would stress that it is a truthful and concrete work. I sincerely say this to my colleague, Mr Bottici. I have understood the meaning of your speech, but perhaps it has not been well understood: the expression "accounting trick" is absolutely misplaced, if it refers - precisely - to that part of passive excesses. In fact, we are in the presence of transparent accounting, which is not the achievement of the goal, but it is a step towards the goal. The concept of a citizen has been mentioned many times in this House. I think that, by acting concretely, by seriously recovering past errors, we respect citizens: the only way to do this is to tell them the truth and to act on the ground of reforms; this is also the only way to receive respect for them. I would stress, without emphasis, that this budget reduces and reformates the functioning of one of the main institutions of the Republic and we, if we do not want to be proud of it, can however be proud of it. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u69	Mr President, first of all, I would like to be able to add my written speech to the Minutes of today's sitting, partly because I will try to skip a few points in order to remain at my disposal in time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u70	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the full text of your speech to the shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u71	COLUCCI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have always considered that the examination of the internal budget is an important moment in the life of a parliamentary institution, although it must be borne in mind that the debate on the budget is taking place today at an advanced stage of the year (an event also determined by the complexity of the beginning of this parliamentary term). With reference to the intervention of Senator Commissioner Bottici, I would first of all like to make it clear that these assessments must be rejected totally. The examination of our budget is based on truthful documents submitted to the House today. The documents have been drawn up in accordance with the accounting rules of the Senate and the document is transparent and truthful, so much so that the Presidency Council approved the draft internal budget with the sole abstention of Senator Bottici. Polemics like those raised by the Bottici Commissioner only serve to fuel the feeling of anti-politics widespread in Italian public opinion. It is our duty and obligation to try to represent accounting data to the public in a clear way, without giving in to the temptation of unnecessary demagogies. And this is all the more true today, since this debate takes place after the Senate passed in second resolution, with a majority of two thirds of its members, the text of the constitutional bill establishing the Parliamentary Committee for Reforms. We do not know today what the work of the Committee set up with that draft will be, but it is certainly necessary to put in place a careful review of our Rules of Procedure. Economic and social times and dynamics at European and international level postulate greater speed in the legislative process in the Commissions and in the Assembly. The way in which we respond to the public's distrust of the parliamentary institution is the certainty of the decision-making times of this institution, which must necessarily be short. Another closely related issue is the review of the Commissions' competences in order to make them more functional than the changed institutional and legislative framework. The examination of the internal budget, I was saying, is an important moment in which to reflect, starting from the figures entered in the budget, on the same organization and on the instruments that are offered to the individual senators in order to be able to fulfil their mandate as best possible. In order to do this, I think it is appropriate to avoid a simple cost logic. It is necessary, even at a time when there is a significant distance from politics, to bear in mind that the common space for confrontation, namely Parliament, and, for us, the Senate of the Republic, needs instruments. Therefore, what the community bears - the costs - must be compared with the instruments available to ensure that the political confrontation is in the best possible way. In the final analysis, the issue of the cost of democracy is being addressed. However, even if we want to examine the issue in a simple cost perspective, it should be noted that the development of the Senate's spending records (as has been pointed out by the Senators Quaestors), beyond the physiological increase of 2013 linked to the passing of the legislature, a reduction. From this point of view it has been observed, already in the session of the Assembly of 10 August 2012, how the expenses of the Senate in the past legislature - and of this must be publicly acknowledged to President Schifani - have fallen by 8.83% in nominal terms compared to 2008. In that same session it was clarified that, if the State's public expenditure from 2008 to 2012 had the same trend as that of the Senate, the State would have had a better budget of 113 billion euros. The same criterion, applied to expenditure on parliamentary allowances, would have shown, between 2008 and 2012, a reduction of 13.39 per cent in nominal terms and, taking into account inflation, of 25.5%. On the other hand, the figures in the annex to the internal budget for our examination show that the expenditure of the Senate, net of the savings to be paid to the state budget, is percentually decreasing from 2004, reflecting an effort aimed at a concrete reduction of expenditure. This effort has made it possible to maintain the demand for ordinary equipment unchanged. Indeed, as the Quaestor Senators have clarified in the written report, the difference between the forecast figure for 2012 and 2013 of € 24,802,816.10 is not dealt with at all with an increase in the ordinary budget, but more simply through a restructuring of revenue, i.e. by resorting to management surpluses or savings produced in previous years (and in particular in 2012, where euro 23,674,698,55 were established in the accounts). These are significant results, the achievement of which must be attributed to the careful work carried out in the past legislature on the decisive impulse of President Schifani. Therefore, the gap between the level of expenditure and the level of allocation is addressed by the use of management surpluses. From this point of view, the examination of the data carried out by the final summary framework of the 2013-2015 budgetary maneuver and historical budget and statement series shows an approximation between the expenditure forecast and the statement data, essentially between the expenditure forecast and the actual expenditure. To this end, the data for 2001 and 2012 should be taken into account. This note is made for the sole purpose of drawing the attention of all of us - just as my previous political-administrative experience suggests me, even if I am certain that the senators The quaestors have it well in mind - on the mechanisms for the formation of management surpluses as Senator Questre De Poli has pointed out, in the report just read, that they contribute to define year by year the amount of revenue and, therefore, to ensure the coverage of the total expenses. In this sense, I think that, in the future, we must carefully consider the choice of leaving the amount of funding required unchanged in the years to come. With regard to the cost reduction factors, it is important to reduce costs for the powers of senators and holders of internal posts, as well as measures relating to employees. For the first point, it must be stressed that so much has been done in the past and therefore the adoption of further measures for the reduction of powers must necessarily be confronted with the need to ensure an independent and informed exercise of the parliamentary mandate. That is why I agree with the assessments and proposals made by Senator Pegorer as regards both the senators in office and those outside the parliamentary mandate. I think it is necessary to recall once again that - as confirmed by the Commission's report on the Italian-Europe wage leveling (the famous Giovannini commission) - the total cost incurred for Italian parliamentarians is lower than that borne by the European countries' assemblies with the highest GDP. On the other hand, the examination of the individual items of expenditure in other countries shows, for example, that in France the recognition of senators for their collaborators is greater than expected in Italy. On the subject of collaborators, Members of the European Parliament, on the basis of the new Statute applied since the last parliamentary term, are entitled to be assisted precisely by personal collaborators chosen freely, for whom the European Parliament reimburses the expenditure actually incurred by each individual Member of Parliament for a maximum total monthly amount currently equal to about 21,000 euros. These elements can guide us in the choices that can be made for the treatment reserved to the collaborators of the senators. These are personnel who, as you know, are not members of the Senate administration. This has to be done by establishing a system for the payment of compensation to employees who do not affect the treatment of senators. To this end, it can be assumed that the payment is made by the Senate, on the understanding that the relationship of collaboration, which has a trust nature, is established with the individual senator and that the relative events - such as modification or termination - the institution is completely foreign. Such a system would also have the advantage of clarifying what really constitutes an emolument to the senators and what, on the other hand, is intended to constitute remuneration for the collaborators. As I mentioned earlier, the other factor in reducing expenditure must be identified in the employee-related measures, on which I intend to say a few words. I would also like to take this opportunity to join in the words with which the President of this House, before the summer recess, wished to express solidarity with the employees of the Senate who, together with those of the House, have been the subject of violent attacks and threats. On the subject of staffing policies, I would like to say straight away that the Senate staff, from senior officials to parliamentary assistants, are doing an excellent job. They are highly trained staff, selected through strict national public competition procedures, motivated above all by being at the service of democracy. It is a staff that constitutes a reserve of excellence. Even the day before yesterday, during a television broadcast, the Senate staff were the subject of offensive and negative judgments, discrediting to the public an institution that deserves quite different evaluation. What I regret is that a representative of the College of Quaestors, Senator Bottici, expresses opinions which do not correspond to the reality and commitment that is being made by parliamentary assistants, who are obliged by mandate to the utmost confidentiality in personal relations both internal and external, and by the whole apparatus of the Senate. As far as we know, our parliamentary assistants have always been loyal to their duties. Our staff offers every day, without any hourly limitation, a fundamental support. Let us think of the work carried out by the advisers and the rest of the staff for the better execution of the work of all the parliamentary bodies, in the fields of documentation and also in the area proper administrative, where it deals with management issues, in particular as regards safety. Let us think of the contribution made by the officials in terms of legislative drafting, but also of the activity that parliamentary assistants, in addition to the activities of aiding in maintaining order in the sessions of the Assembly, control at the entrances, carry out on the occasion of visits to the palaces of the Senate. They are able to dialogue - for example - in more than one foreign language, to illustrate to visitors the beauties of these palaces, where the history of our country is intertwined with political topicality. This is therefore an opportunity to address to employees at all levels, starting with the Secretary-General, a sincere thank you for their work and for their serious commitment. It is for these reasons that the interventions on the overall economic treatment must be assessed in relation to the need to safeguard this patrimony of professionalism. On the other hand, it is also appropriate to conclude this type of intervention once and for all, with the necessary assistance of the trade unions. Beyond the proper need to define in a certain way the economic career paths of the staff in service blocked for years, I therefore ask that the College of Quaestors deal with this subject. Then there is the need to give a definitive structure to the structure of the administration. I am referring to the positions of Heads of Service and Deputy Secretary-General, in the state not covered. These appointments - and I would like to make a suggestion to the political management bodies that are acting on this matter - will have to take account of the seniority and abilities of individuals. Among the measures that will allow the rationalization and the containment of the expenses for the part relative to the staff, are indicated, among others, the reorganization of the structures of the Senate, the integration, in agreement with the Chamber of Deputies, of the Services of documentation, computer science, logistics, contests and contracts, library center. These are issues that connect with each other and that, in my opinion, transcend the simple logic of saving in order to reach the issue of the functioning of the Senate organization, a very important issue and to which I believe that the political leadership bodies must pay the necessary attention. Experiences of integration of structures have already been positively tested, as in the case of the constitution of the Librarian Pole. So it is a question of moving in line with what has already been worked out or achieved in the past. From this point of view, it is also necessary to consider the establishment, by Law No 243 of 2012, of the Parliamentary Budget Office. I would therefore like to conclude by thanking the Quaestors for the effort they have made and which they will certainly also make on the basis of the suggestions that have been made this morning by this House and for the document that they have proposed to our attention, and for all the activity that is being carried out daily to deal with all the problems, large and small, related to that operation. Thank you, Mr President, to the administration as a whole, from the Secretary-General to all the staff, for the continued support they offer with seriousness and professionalism to the senators for the better performance of their duties. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I am voting in favour of the report and the budget presented to us by the Quaestors. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u72	I would like to greet the students and teachers of the Istituto Tecnico Economico e Tecnologia (Economic and Technological Technical Institute) in Capua, in the province of Caserta, who follow our work closely. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u74	Mr President, I have signed the G4 agenda, of which Senator Santangelo is the first signatory, which, as far as it is competent, commits the College of Quaestors and the Council of President to amend the resolution of the Council of Presidency No 106 of 2011, in the sense of including the senators for life in the scope of Article 1 (1) and (2) of that resolution. The reason why I wanted to sign this agenda for the truth is not so much about specific economic savings, but rather about the desire to point out that the absences of the senators for life, with particular regard to the four senators of last appointment, frustrate the spirit and the reasons that have determined the will of the Head of State. I believe it has been assumed that the contribution to politics by the personalities of the world of science and culture was valuable (of course this reasoning is not a matter for the senators of law and life, such as the former Heads of State). Well, that contribution has not yet been made. I believe that the meaning and nature of appointment and choice have not been understood: perhaps it has been intended to attribute to the office of senator for life an honorable nature. In that case, we do not even understand the reasons for the emoluments and even less of the daily allowance. Politics cannot continue to rely on contributions without real substance and away from everyday life, society and people. Even if you have the head surrounded by a halo of superiority, when you enter this Chamber you become servants of the State and of the Italian people. At a time when you do not have that spirit, you could also avoid accepting such demanding appointments. [[Senator Milo's applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zavoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as President of the Commission who oversees the work of the Library and the Historical Archives of the Senate, I know that I am speaking on the margins of the great numbers: it is not reasonable that, in the presence of such a harsh, demanding and lasting crisis, the scythe of public expenditure may have a considerate attitude to the budget item (so technically we refer to it) relating also to our solemn Library, to which an integerrim and imperturbable administrative equity in fact assigns a value corresponding to its numbers, obviously minimum, albeit in other respects nothing minimal and less ancillary. Already in two other legislatures, assisted by a working group of recognized excellence, I had dealt with this problem, obtaining (I have to admit) almost irrelevant results. I am referring to all those Services and Offices which are responsible for collecting, preserving and transmitting memory, not only of the parliamentary institution but, in many respects, of the entire national community, even if not European. These functions are basically carried out by the Historical Archives and the Library. Suffice it to mention here the collection of the Statutes of all the Italian cities preserved at the Library, a unique collection that constitutes an essential reference point for scholars of the history of law, recently enriched by two precious donations, the Fondo Filippo Vassali and the Fondo Ennio Cortese, fundamental collections of legal texts ranging from the 15th to the 18th century. The Historical Archives and the Library are not only places of memory conservation but also dynamic sites of promotion and diffusion of culture, as well as prestigious publications: for all I quote the Diaries of Amintore Fanfani, published by the Historical Archives with a critical apparatus of excellent scientific level. It should be remembered that this year marks the tenth anniversary of the opening of the Library to the public. It is not only dedicated to the management of a user of scholars; its activity is already being realized, among other things, in training courses for bibliographical and documentary research held by employees of the Library and highly appreciated by the numerous visitors for the high cultural quality of teaching; not to mention, finally, the extensive activities of seminars, conferences and presentations of books that have involved many Italian and foreign scholars. The intervention retirement of the Director of the Service of the Library Dr. Bulgarelli has deprived the administration of an experienced and high-quality cultural manager to whom many of the achievements so far are due even briefly illustrated. Over the years the total expenditure on the Library Service has been decreasing in geometric progression, while the reduction in the budgets of the Chamber Library has been somewhat more gradual and, however, contained. At present our Library does not even have the funds to ensure regular increase in the bibliographical heritage, despite the synergies already initiated with the Chamber of Deputies, which have led to a significant reduction in costs. With regard to the Parliamentary Library, it should be noted that the resources allocated to the Library of the Senate for the next year are lower than those provided for in the protocols that promoted the integration between the two Services, an integration still partial but that constitutes - it is hardly necessary to remember - a unique experience in the reality of the parliamentary administrations. Getting started in different economic conditions on such a path would mean giving back a perspective to this important project, giving back to culture and research the role that belongs to this worthy activity of the Senate. To be clear, it was and is a matter of keeping alive, protecting its quality and purpose, that is, the sense of practice, a heritage surrounded by an estimate not only national, to whose increase particular attention should be devoted. But we are aware that we are children of the ontologically devoid of adjectives, especially if qualified, that is to say in some virtuous way, and nevertheless we feel bound to a fundamental question, which legitimizes us all to say together that today we can take the opportunity to remember the exhortation of the Cross you are what you know and you can, beginning with the common right to knowledge (the first light of reason) called Goethe. A right that the library guarantees to each one, in which each one seeks not only himself, but also meets the other (the different from you), without which your knowledge is nicknamed, deprived, unconcluded. It is the question of identity: we are what we know and can, starting from when we were no longer alone to decide our will and our destiny. It will be politics, therefore the institutions and their mandates to condition our personal collective history. I do not say this to squeeze from the circumstance a bit of begging philosophy, of the day, but to remember, starting with myself, that here today, alongside complex problems, there is also the neglect, and therefore inert, of a civil structure by antonomasia that makes us equal in having to perceive and defend the real meaning of a library whose function corresponds to one aspect of politics among the highest, when it means - to say it with Don Milani - to come out together. So it is of the book, especially if - as in our case - it is the witness of stories that involves and somehow nourishes the national culture through the sources of our common history. I am also what is in your books. Forgive me, President, if I take this freedom. We do not leave completely free from a culture that interprets and exercises civilly, culturally, anthropologically our diversity. That is why I ask each of you, ladies and gentlemen, for a consensus that benefits from an instrument entrusted to equals the whole hemicycle by the democracy of knowledge, of spreading it, of confronting it in order to draw from it a good that is called putting in common, that is, to be, with the air pulling out, a community. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE) and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u77	The joint debate is closed. I call Senator Commissioner De Poli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u78	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers in this debate for providing important and fundamental points for our work. With regard to the 2014 budget, it was requested - but Senators Quaestors and the Presidency Council agree - to discuss it in the early months of next year, so as to give this institution the opportunity to intervene on a truly forward-looking budget. I believe that this is one of the fundamental aspects. I would remind you that we have already spoken in relation to some of the points made by my fellow Members, both in relation to supplementary health care for senators (ASIS) and in relation to the end-of-term report, so that there is a division in our Rules of Procedure of the two chapters of expenditure, so that there is clarity and transparency for monitoring and evaluation so that the relevant chapters are clearly with active and not negative texts. I would remind the House that the Health Care Fund, with the contribution that is paid directly every month by the senators, has a positive figure of more than EUR 800,000, which means that with control, transparency and attention our Fund and our coffers can also show positive factors. The same is true of the other side. Before giving the floor to Mr Malan for his opinions on the agenda, I would like to reiterate that the rules on the formation of the Senate budget have been fully respected, as they have been fully respected in the budgets of all previous years, because the use of part of the operating surplus for direct commitments in the round match (underline that also the round matches, from the technical-account point of view, are items that fall within the revenue of the same Senate budget) is a completely transparent operation, reported in all the reports and in all the tables, as highlighted with due emphasis in the report and in the documents, especially as described in Article 9, our Rules of Administration and Accounting. From a technical and accounting point of view, it is also apparent that the transaction in question is consistent with the way in which the public accounts are presented for the purposes of EU law, according to which the general government balance sheets are assessed net of the one-off items and cyclical effects that normally exist. This is precisely what we are talking about: this is a budget expenditure that - as you know - has been transferred since 2012 in 2013. It is one-off expenditure, and as such we have treated it, in the total transparency and attention we wanted to give it within the budget. I believe that there is nothing unclear and we cannot talk about non-compliance with the rules. I would like to end by saying that this year's internal budget has achieved expenditure savings of EUR 34 million and that over the three years we have reached EUR 100 million in savings: I believe that these are the key aspects to be highlighted in this reply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on Senator Commissioner Malan to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u79	Mr President, I would like to join in the remarks made by Senator De Poli, thanking all those who have spoken for the contribution they have made to this debate, especially to the continuation of the policy of rationalization and reduction of the costs of the Senate, with a view to efficient structures, because the work we do is important and must have the support and the best tools to render a service to this country, because this is the purpose of our institution. In particular, I would like to respond to some of the notes that have been raised regarding the certification of Group budgets (Senator Pegorer did so): the procedures for the assignment of this post have been initiated and the external company will be appointed as soon as possible, in compliance with the Rules of Procedure as amended last year. With regard to savings also on aspects that appear to be minor, such as the use of paper, on which, among others, Senator Morra has focused, there is certainly a great commitment in this sense, denoted by the change in the structure of the press of parliamentary acts: we anticipate a strong saving that exceeds 50%, with costs therefore more than halved as regards the printing of parliamentary acts that are currently on paper. We need everyone's cooperation on this, of course, although it may seem a little short, but we are already working in this direction. We have thus achieved the savings that Senator Colucci has highlighted, emphasizing that we have reduced the expenditure of the Senate, in particular for the economic treatment of the senators, to such an extent that, if we had managed to reduce the expenditure of the State in general to a similar extent, we would have, instead of a budget deficit, even a strong surplus every year. It is clear that state spending is much more difficult to deal with and immensely wider, but we are certainly setting a good example. We are setting a good example thanks to the extensive restructuring measures that have been widely discussed with regard to both staff and senators as well as the whole of the Senate Administration, but can also contribute to each of us. In fact, if every senator and every member of the Senate staff gives his contribution, even trivially turning off the office light when he is not present and saving on the use of paper, perhaps using the printed acts on one side only for the notes, you can achieve important results. I would now like to turn to the opinions on the agenda. I am in favour of the G1 agenda, thanking those who have tabled it, i.e. the Presidents of most of the groups. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, a moment of silence, opinions on agendas are about to be given, and we need to understand what they are. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. The opinion is therefore in favour of the G1 agenda, which sets out the guidelines to be followed in the near future, and also in the medium term, for an improvement in the administration of the Senate, with a reduction and rationalization of expenditure. As regards the agenda G2, presented by Senators Petraglia and De Petris, the first two items of the device are absorbed respectively by items 1) and 4) of the agenda G1, which are also signed by the Group to which the two proposers belong. On the other hand, I would be in favour of accepting points 3) and 4) of the device as a recommendation. With regard to the G3 agenda, the opinion is opposed for a reason which is partly even already contained in the text. It refers to Law No 1261 of 1965, which provides that the Presidency Offices of the two Chambers shall determine the amount of the parliamentary allowance not exceeding the twelfth of the total treatment of magistrates acting as President of the Court of Cassation. This is a law of 1965 that was then interpreted as meaning that the compensation of parliamentarians was equal to that of the office of the judiciary of the Court of Cassation (and therefore 100%), while today it is under 60%. Here, therefore, we have a representation of the fact that the reduction has already been made. I would also remind you that the net allowance of the members of the Italian Parliament, the Senate and the House is the lowest of the great European countries. As regards the modulations of the diary, I would point out that, as is well known, it is already the same as the agenda calls for, i.e. it is already commensurate with the presence of votes, according to a regulation introduced about ten years ago, reworked by extending it to the Commissions as required by the famous G100 agenda of 2011. It is therefore considered that these are provisions already contained in existing legislation. Moreover, I would remind you that even the diary is the lowest of those of the great European Parliaments, even much lower. Just read on the websites of the French Senate, the French National Assembly, the German Bundestag, the United Kingdom Parliament. I have already mentioned the comparison with 1965, but it should be noted that only over the last six years has there been a 30% reduction in the economic treatment of Members of Parliament (in particular, the allowance has fallen by 29.8%). It should also be mentioned that the transition to the contributory system has reduced, on average, 70%, if not more, the vitality (which has now become a pension), as well as raising the age to achieve it. On the G4 agenda, I turn to the House, stressing the specific role played by life-long senators who undoubtedly have a particular history and condition. On the G5 agenda, I am against it, because the end-of-term allowance is nothing more than handing over to every senator of what he has paid during the years of his parliamentary term, in analogy with what happens to any other employment relationship. As regards the G6 agenda, a premise must be made. This agenda proposes that life allowances for senators who have ceased their term of office or their family members should be subject to an equalization contribution - as it is defined - of 10% for gross amounts of up to EUR 90,000 and 20% for the part exceeding the gross amounts of EUR 90,000. I would like to remind you that such a rule was introduced in 2011 as a general provision and provided for a 5% reduction in the remuneration of State employees over EUR 90,000 and 10% in the share exceeding EUR 150,000. For Members, the rule has been introduced by measures doubled, i.e. not 5%, but 10% above EUR 90,000, and not 10%, but 20% above EUR 150 000. Subsequently, the Constitutional Court considered the application of this measure to be unconstitutional and was returned to all the other parties that had been submitted to it, but it was maintained for Members of Parliament because we have the privilege of having a different regime. Therefore, today only parliamentarians have this withholding tax and it is applied to them twice as much as the first one provided for every other employee of the State. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]] I therefore propose a rewording of the part of the G6 agenda, specifying that the Presidency Council is committed and, in particular, the College of Quaestors: to maintain the reductions already established for Members only. If we were to write that we should conform to others, we should cancel this reduction, with an increase in our allowance, and to transpose further similar measures which are introduced by general social security rules. In other words, if there are rules that affect pension treatment above a certain level, of course we are also committed to transposing them as far as the senators who have ceased their mandate are concerned. The G7 agenda is covered essentially under item 1) on the G1 agenda, which provides for a restructuring of the reimbursements relating to the work of Members of Parliament. I therefore call on the House to withdraw, so that such an indication can be accepted in the restructuring that we will do in agreement with the House of Deputies, with which we have started contacts since the beginning of the parliamentary term in order to go in this direction. The G8 and G9 agendas also seem to me to be absorbed by item 1 on the G1 agenda, particularly as regards the question of Members' collaborators. I would therefore ask those present to withdraw; moreover, the presenters of the G8 agenda have also signed the G1 agenda as a group. For the G10 agenda, I would like to propose a rewording. Starting from the sentence "I undertake, as far as their respective competence is concerned, the College of Quaestors and the Council of President, before the two points and the first point of the operative part, I would insert "in compliance with the procedures for trade union relations." After this the operative part follows, to the first point of which I would replace the words "necessary" with the word "progressive" measures for the alignment between the wage treatments in place with those of the employees of the public administrations, and the following two lines, from "from the remuneration bands" to the end of the point, I would amend them to take into account the specificity of this institution. As far as the second paragraph is concerned, I suggest that it be reworded as follows: - rather than laying down provisions - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ( - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I would remind you that with what the Presidency has decided in the context of trade union negotiations in July of this year we are already going in this direction and with this reformulation we make the work already done in a positive way compatible with what we were to approve today. The G11 and G12 agendas are largely absorbed by the redrafting of the proposed G10 agenda, as well as by the decision taken in July this year. So I would like to ask the presenters of the agenda to withdraw them, stressing that, with regard to the agenda G12, the role of Deputy Secretary-General in the Senate is not a qualification, but an assignment and, therefore, does not constitute an additional figure. It is a figure, however, to which this particular task is attributed. Therefore, the possible reduction in the number of Deputy Secretaries General does not imply a reduction of people, who are already there and carry out a task. The G13 agenda refers to the employees of the Senate and, in particular, to the parliamentary advisers who may be placed out of place in other institutions. It is a prestigious and useful experience for our advisors. At present there are - I quote the agenda - one at the Presidency of the Council, two at the Presidency of the Republic, one at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, one at the Ministry of European Affairs, one at the European Commission and one at the Cabinet of the Mayor of Rome Capital. This is an experience that we consider useful for an exchange of knowledge (which, moreover, gives prestige to the Senate, whose advisers can be called to carry out important tasks also outside) and which has a cost for the Senate, in the sense that during the first three years of office the compensation is paid by the Senate. In the past we had mentioned the possibility of negotiating a reduction in this three-year period, but we believe that it would be negative to close this experience. The opinion is therefore opposed, but there is a commitment to work out agreements with the other institutions to reduce the cost to the Senate. I would also point out that in any case there is no increase for the State, because these employees either pay the Senate or the Presidency of the Council pays them. So, in any case, there is neither an increase nor a reduction in expenditure. On the G14 agenda, which calls for initiatives to rationalise the running costs of the Senate, we give a favourable opinion. The opinion was also in favour of the G15 and G16 agendas. The opinion on the G17 agenda is, of course, opposed since it is November. Next year we promise to prepare the budget much earlier (in essence in a few months), but it is clear that we cannot think of halving the budget items when the year has almost passed and the expenditure has already been incurred in full or almost. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u80	Colleagues, I invite you to be quiet, because you can't hear Senator Malan. Senator Malan, I'm gonna have to ask you to recap your opinion on the agenda from the G14.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u81	Of course, Mr President. The opinion on the G14, G15 and G16 agenda is in favour, while the opinion is against the G17 agenda. The opinion is equally opposed to the G18 agenda: in this case too, as in the G17 agenda, it would be to halve a chapter which has already been largely spent, and which is now in November. An important consideration must be made on the G19 agenda. It commits the Senate to reduce the cost of contributions and subsidies, amounting to 1,744,000 euros. But this item has already been reduced. The figure of EUR 1,744,000 was correct because it was contained in the provisional year approved in March of this year by our predecessors. At the last College of Quaestors and in the Presidency Council, however, we approved this item with a reduction of EUR 420,000. Therefore, there has already been a reduction, and today the item is EUR 1,324,000, which is no small thing, because it is a reduction of more than 25%. The opinion is therefore against it, because it has already been done. On the contrary, I would urge the authors to withdraw this agenda because the figure is no longer that indicated. I repeat: it is an understandable mistake because there was a provisional exercise that reported this figure. The G20 agenda refers to the costs of air travel for senators travelling to Rome. We would be in favour of accepting the agenda as a recommendation because already today, of course, the senators can take advantage of low cost flights (provided there are flights in the city of origin), stressing that the real cost of air tickets is almost always due to the fact that very often we find ourselves having to book flights at the last moment. Then, whether it is a flag carrier or a low cost airline, the later you book the more you pay. If we succeed in planning work in the future, such as that of other parliaments, who already know the schedule of their commitments a few weeks or even months in advance, that can be done. However, this is a much broader political issue, and we cannot therefore address it here. The opinion was in favour of the G21 agenda, with regard to dematerialisation of documents, provided that the word "only" was removed from the device, stressing that it must become possible to submit acts only by computer, but this must not be an obligation. Therefore, those who wish to use other instruments will still be able to do so. Mr President, I apologise for the scale of the speech. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u82	I call the rapporteur, Senator Azzollini, to give an opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u83	Mr President, for the reply, I refer to what Senators Quaestors have already said in detail. Therefore, I do not think I should add anything more than what has already been said. As regards opinions on agendas, these are in line with those expressed by the Quaestors. It will allow me only one moment, because it applies to the Senate, to remind Senator Ichino that probably, due to his blameless oversight, he did not look at the website of the Senate of the People of Liberty that, under the heading "transparency" he inserted all the information, as required by the regulations of the Senate. It is true that - let me make a joke - I verified that there was also that of the 5 Star Movement. Everyone was there! I stress this because this information is to the honour of the whole Senate, but a blameless oversight can happen to everyone. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u84	Having been accepted, the G1 agenda will not be put to the vote. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G2 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Senator Santangelo, do you insist on voting on the G3 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u85	Yes, Mr President, and I call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, on this agenda and - before it - on all other agenda votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u86	All right, we'll take note of that. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G3 agenda, presented by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G4 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u89	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, if the authors are not against it, I would ask that we, together with all the members of my parliamentary group, be able to sign the G4 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u92	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, if the presenters had nothing against it, Senator Mussolini, Senator Fazzone and I would like to sign this agenda. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u93	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G4, presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and PdL Groups.]] Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u96	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you to inform those directly concerned of the adoption of the G4 agenda because, as usual, I do not see one in this House. ( [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S Groups).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u97	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G5 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G5 agenda, presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. A rewording of the G6 agenda has been proposed. Senator Santangelo, do you accept it? SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Mr President, we accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As the G6 agenda has been adopted (text 2) it will therefore not be put to the vote. For the G7 agenda there is an invitation to withdraw, as it can be considered as absorbed by the G1 agenda. Senator Santangelo, will you accept this invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u98	Mr President, I believe that it was considered to be absorbed by item 1 on the G1 agenda. However, this is a very specific request. I would ask the Quaestors to make a good assessment of the content of the G7 agenda, of which I would nevertheless ask for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u99	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G7 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G7, presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. The same is true for the G8 agenda as for the G7: the senators They consider it to be included in the G1 agenda and therefore call for withdrawal. Senator Petraglia, will you accept this request? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is also an invitation to withdraw for the G9 agenda. Will the presenters accept this invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u100	Mr President, I would also be willing to withdraw it. However, I suggest that Senator Zanda accept the last part of the agenda item G9 by entering at the end of item 1) of the agenda G1 the following words: "i.e. the direct payment by the administration of the Senate of the Republic of the compensation established in favour of the collaborators themselves, after deduction of the same amount from the reimbursement of the expenses for the performance of the parliamentary mandate". If it accepts this rewording, we withdraw the G9 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u101	Senator Zanda says he doesn't want to welcome her. We shall then proceed to the vote on the G9 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G9 agenda, presented by Senator Battista and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. There is a request for reformulation in relation to the G10 agenda. Do the presenters intend to welcome you?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u102	Mr President, forgive me for interrupting you at this stage, but in my opinion there is a formal vice. Since some agendas have been declared to be absorbed in another agenda and have specified that this is something else, I believe that the College of Quaestors should give its opinion specifically and then move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u103	They've already expressed it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u104	SANTANGELO (M5S). No, Mr President, they did not. They said, "It's absorbed." They did not deliver an opinion. I ask you to listen to him again, because they have not said that the opinion is negative if the agenda is not absorbed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Looks to me like it's been said. Anyway, we can hear Senator Commissioner Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u105	I confirm that, where we insist on the vote, our opinion is opposed, even if we pray in a positive way, to consider them absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u106	Senator Blundo, do you accept the rewording of the G10 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u107	Yes, the first part of the reformulation is quite correct and correct. I also agree with the replacement of the word "necessary" with "progressive" referring to the measures for the alignment between salary treatments. On the other hand, I would like to see the replacement of the last paragraph of the word "sorting" with "proposing" not merely a proposal, but to achieve what is said on the agenda. If, therefore, the term "propose" were to correspond to the intention to complete, I would accept the rewording. Finally, I agree with the replacement of the word "prohibit" with "limiti".
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u108	I ask Senator Commissioner Malan for his interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u109	MALAN, Senator Commissioner. Of course, our proposal is a proposal that should express the majority and therefore it is clear that it is intended to be operational.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u110	As the G10 agenda has been adopted (text 2), it will not be put to the vote. The G11 agenda was deemed to have been absorbed in the G10 agenda. Senator Malan, can you confirm my assessment of this?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u111	Mr President, I confirm that otherwise the opinion would be against, because the figures mentioned on the agendas of the G11 and G12 must be included in the policy which has been set out and approved now both on the G10 and the G1 agendas and in the agreement reached already in July. I would therefore urge you to consider a general policy and not to make a question about the individual figures mentioned on the agendas of G11 and G12. If the vote were to be held, the opinion would be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u112	What are you going to do, Senator Santangelo? SANTANGELO (M5S). I insist on the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G11 amendment tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. As regards the G12 agenda, which was also considered to be absorbed by the G10, a call for withdrawal was made. I'll ask Senator Santangelo if he wants to welcome him. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I insist on the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G12, presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. Let us move on to agenda G13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G13, presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. As the agendas of the G14, G15 and G16 have been accepted, they will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to agenda G17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G17, presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. Let us move on to agenda G18. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G18, presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. With regard to the G19 agenda, I would like to remind you that the rapporteur has previously indicated that expenditure has already been reduced and that the initial figure is therefore no longer the one on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u115	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, even according to what has been said by the quaestors, and given the fact that expenditure - as I understand it - has already been reduced by 25%, on our agenda we are calling for a total reduction of 50%, so it would remain a 25% difference. If the quaestor senators were available, we could evaluate the commitment to reduce it by an additional 25%, to reach 50%, rather than just insert the formula "to evaluate the opportunity to". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, I ask you to comment on the proposal made by Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u116	Mr President, it is 6 November and it is now difficult to reduce expenditure by 50%. I would remind you that we have already reduced it by 25%, resetting a part concerning the Quaestors and the President for the allocation of certain funds to institutions. More than that can be done on 6 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u117	Senator Santangelo, I'm asking if you insist on voting. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to put it to the vote with the amendment I have just communicated to you. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G19 (text 2), presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. Senator Santangelo, on the G20 agenda there is a willingness to accept it as a recommendation. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, allow me to say that I have never accepted a recommendation. [[Laughter. Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore ask that it be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Santangelo, there are recommendations and recommendations. There is a difference between those who are available to the quaestor senators and those who are made in this House. We accept your line, but since we have been working continuously since this morning and are tired, we can avoid making jokes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u120	MALAN, Senator Commissioner. Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the recognition of specificity. There was no foreclosure against the request made. We had proposed the recommendation but, in fact, it is already working in that direction. We have nothing against it, we are in favour and we therefore accept the G20 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u121	As the agendas of the G20 and G21 (text 2) have been accepted, they will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u123	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, it is a little complicated to make an explanation of vote at the time of recreation. There have been a lot of considerations in the speeches this morning, to which we add a few. Meanwhile, rather than voting on a budget, today we are in fact faced with an act, because the 2012 final and 2013 budget are the sign of the work carried out in the previous legislature. We are also aware that it is in a certain sense singular, not to say ridiculous, to approve a budget in November 2013, as has already been mentioned by the Quaestors themselves. So, we could even say that we approve of a pre-consunt today. However, we also understand the difficulties of the quaestor senators who have settled for a few months, as they said in their report, who also had to reconstruct and understand the complex functioning of the institutional, administrative and organizational machinery of the Senate. For our part, therefore, we do not want to make any controversy but only to make some considerations, which we would like to share for future work and to deliver above all to the work of the Quaestors and of the whole Presidency Council. Beyond all the considerations made, we can do very little about the past. However, we would like to be able to influence future choices, because we are now here. In recent times, many, too many of us have contributed to conveying an image of the highest institutions of the State as the place of waste and privileges. And at a time of great poverty in the country this appeared to everyone for what it really was: a shame. As we have said a great deal in recent months and as President Grasso mentioned in his inauguration speech, whose considerations we fully agree with, the Senate must be transparent and truly open to the citizens. We believe that we must start from the budgets in order to do not only transparency but also truth. The data and numbers presented to us try to start a path of serious cost reduction. We believe that a careful rationalization of expenditure is necessary, but this is quite different from mere cuts. This budget guarantees that for 2013 and also for the years 2014 and 2015 the cost to the State will remain stable in absolute value, saving every year about 21 million, thus returning to the amounts it had in the years 2007-2008. Our task will be to verify that these amounts are respected, perhaps by carrying out further rationalization of the expenditure and ensuring that the 12 million to which the Senator Questre Bottici referred remain for this year and in the years to come as savings and rationalization of the expenditure and instead do not become a availability for greater expenses Some of these cuts have been foreseen by laws of 2010 and 2011, others are the result of a job started with this legislature: I think for example of the abolition of the vitality for the senators and its substitution with a contributory pension system. We believe, however, that a new revision of senators' allowances should also be carried out, that the cut of 5% or 10% should be re-introduced to the vitality beyond a certain annual threshold which the Constitutional Court has cancelled, that the services provided to senators should be re-examined, starting with the health services and transparently, avoiding doubts or realities that do not correspond to the truth. The effects of cost containment measures relating to the specific powers of senators, in particular those with internal offices, which will lead to a saving of EUR 4.6 million, are already becoming apparent in this forecast budget. There is a collaboration with the Chamber for the sharing of some services such as documentation, the library (in this regard we fully share the words of President Zavoli), computer science. We believe that this must be done not only in order to save money, but above all in the interests of greater efficiency. To pursue policies of indiscriminate cuts, we risk not addressing issues that the Senate has been dragging for too long. I mention a few issues: the staff of parliamentary groups forced to insecurity at every beginning or end of the legislature (without their support the work of the Groups would be impossible); the contractual increases blocked by the various workers: for example, the fixed-term typographical staff has the salary blocked since 2004 and no counting for overtime or night sessions. The turnout block of the public administration is about us, too. It cannot be a consolation to reduce the remuneration of 20% for new recruits, aware that we will not need to hire for the next few years. And again, the contractualization of parliamentary assistants is a serious issue (we cannot pretend not to see that there are contradictions inherent in our system) or how to give stability to catering services and workers by trying to combine the protection of work and the quality of food, or stability to services and maintenance and cleaning work. The Senate is one of the highest institutions of the State, so we must all pay attention to the easy populisms or to chasing demagogy, because in the name of the spending review we risk cutting skills and professionalism fundamental for the functioning of the institutions and for the future of the Country. We find it offensive for us and for the people who work here to depict the Senate staff at all levels, from assistants to secretaries, as unqualified staff who liven up working as little as possible while waiting for an early retirement. For us these words are shameful and we have heard them again this morning. We all have every day the great professionalism and competence of the staff in service to the Senate. Senators often pass, staff remain and represent a great element of continuity for this House. To deny this goes in the opposite direction that we must pursue, which is to reward and enhance skills at all levels. Attention, we repeat it all the time: one thing is to rationalise and abolish waste and privileges, another is to cut. And all this must be easily readable in our budgets. Absolute transparency must remain a primary commitment of all public administrations to citizens, who have the right to know how public money is used up to the last cent. The approval of this budget is an important opportunity to send a message to the country, to explain that democratic institutions are playing their part seriously for the consolidation of the accounts, to explain well the economic part of the senators, to explain well every aspect, to avoid any doubt. But we must also have the courage to say that the activities of the institutions and political activity have real costs. We should work to make the machine more efficient (some agendas have been accepted in this area), to make more use of information technology, to unify research services, with a view to strengthening democracy and not weakening it. That's never gonna happen. It is a way to try to rebuild that relationship between politics and the citizens that has broken and that must see all of us engaged in the reconstruction of our country from those moral rubble in which bad politics has caused it to collapse. But since the day we were elected each of us must feel involved, even with different roles and responsibilities (I think of the majority and we of the opposition). We must feel committed and no one can get out of this task in art. To me it was taught by an elderly companion expert in budgets that the numbers have to sing politics and then our commitment will be to tell through the rigour of the numbers our daily work, that of the whole community of the Senate, work more difficult to communicate and represent compared to the screams, but certainly more honest.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u124	[[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Albano and Manconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u127	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the maintenance of our country's public structure costs 2.5% of gross domestic product, so one point more than Germany, France and Great Britain. If we were to equal the cost of our public spending to those countries that are comparable in size to ours, we would save something like 15 billion euros every year. In the light of this fact, and in order not to leave easy exercise of populism to those who nourish the distrust of citizens towards the institutions, to those who sneakyly indicate in politics the unique origin of every evil of the country, we must clearly engage in the direction of rationalization and transparency of the institution in which we sit and that remains - it must be reiterated against any instrumentalization - the seat of democracy and the representation of the people. Our goal, therefore, is to reduce spending, because this is what the economic situation asks us to do and this is what our ethical and moral commitment to the country asks us to do, because really each of us must do its part. It was rightly emphasized during the debate and by the Quaestors that we do not start from scratch and that during the last few years, even with our contribution, the Senate has started a trend of reduction of total expenditure, confirmed by the budget we are considering today, and that has touched on all aspects of the functioning of the structure. The economic situation, however, asks us to do more; our citizens ask us more and we also ask for our sense of responsibility. These demands are also met by a commitment made by you, Mr President, on the day of your inauguration, as is the commitment of so many political forces in this House today. However, the deserving work done so far for a revision of operating expenditure has been done, in our opinion, according to an old logic, that of linear cuts, the one dictated by a concept of technical spending review and not effective, for which every cost center is treated in the same way. This is what has been done so far and they have committed themselves to carrying forward the College of Senators Quaestors and the Presidency Council, as has been tried to do on a broader level throughout the public machine. And it is an important part, because it goes to intervene on salaries that in the rage of people are identified as the cause or one of the main causes of the increased costs of Italian politics. However, ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that, if we could intervene - and this is a commitment - precisely on salaries, to intervene in blue cars, to intervene in privileges, which are obnoxious as it is improcrastinable to eliminate them, we would intervene only on a small, very small part of those EUR 15 billion. In fact, the estimates are around EUR 1 billion maximum savings. What about the rest? What about the rest of the public car? Everything else is precisely in the organization of the country's public function; it is in the wrong allocation of resources or in the unnecessary allocation of resources, to which unfortunately does not correspond a service useful to the operation of the country. It is precisely in this context that we must incorporate our work, because we are a symbol, for good and for bad; therefore, we must give an answer to this request; we must be the first to question ourselves. It is not a technical approach, it is not a technocratic approach, it is a political approach. Our job as politicians is to redefine the role of Parliament. We have not done this with reforms, unfortunately, but we can do it with our part, to begin with, right within this constitutional system, ensuring that at least the Senate responds to its functions in the best possible way. With the contribution that we can make here, through the agendas that have been accepted, we basically ask for a step forward in rationalizing the expenditure of the Senate precisely in the sense of saving, transparency and functionality. We have an obligation of transparency, which is already respected by all public administration and local and territorial authorities and governed by Community legislation. Progressively, all purchases of the Senate must be based on public evidence procedures in order to identify the most appropriate offers and give both tenders and purchase procedures immediate and constant transparency. Savings can be achieved, but by cutting the costs of all offices with closed eyes can even prove counterproductive. I would like to take the example of the Budget Commission, where we have a limited printing budget, which is the same as all the other Commissions. Unfortunately, however, it has not been considered that the Budget Commission must analyse all the measures of all the other Commissions, so it would have been logical to have more funding for the press. If cutting these costs involves delaying or blocking the work of some key Commissions, only the result of slowing down the overall work of the institution as a whole is achieved and consequently actually increasing the costs rather than reducing them. The rationalization work must be more targeted and self-evident. It will be challenging and difficult, so I imagine that the quaestor senators will have to do a remarkable job, it also requires an assumption of responsibility in the choice; but I am sure that you will not need in-depth studies to understand what functions should be preserved, even for those who have little experience in institutional classrooms. It is enough the will and the awareness that the parliamentary classrooms are not a free zone, a protected category, nor a retirement buen (nor for the elected, nor for the employees), but are an organism of democracy, an instrument at the service of the people and of the good of the country: this and no other good must be the compass that guides the way. In the hope, then, that everything I have said will happen, the North League will vote with confidence in favour of the budgetary documents under consideration. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u130	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, the Civic Choice Group for Italy will vote in favour of the budgetary documents under consideration, both of the 2012 budget and of the 2013 budget, which in reality - as has been noted - is more than a budget that is almost final. This is the first point that I believe we will have to try to correct, by ensuring that the 2014 forecast budget is presented in good time and is indeed also a budget for the programming of rationalization actions that are intended to be carried out during the financial year. Our explanation of vote also tends to acknowledge the full correctness of the 2013 budget approach, on which much has been discussed, with regard to the accounting representation of some one-off posts, that is, the allocation of a share of the administrative surplus against extraordinary expenses, so as to allow also a comparison of homogeneous budget sizes and take account of their actual evolution, taking note and stressing the exceptionality that took place in 2013, in particular as regards the termination of the mandate of a very large number of parliamentarians and some parliamentarians who also - let us call it this - had a great length of service. I think this accounting representation has been performed very correctly. I also think that we must continue the work of transparency and rationalization initiated by Senators Quaestors, to whom our thanks go, knowing however that we are dealing with a structure that has a very ancient history, not only on the level of the political institution, but also on the level of its administration, its quality and professional culture that must be valued and preserved, albeit in the evolution of the times, that today require greater transparency and standardization also with regard to its cost. There is no doubt that the regime of parliamentary bureaucracies is the legacy of a history and, however, we must also say that this history, albeit with some of its anomalies, has allowed to have bureaucratic bodies of the highest level that affect the quality of parliamentary work. Therefore, I believe that we must do a work of reducing the privileges of senators, but trying to preserve these professional qualities, because otherwise, as in other areas in this period of crisis, we risk destroying in all areas of our public life the excellences, of which we must instead be proud and that we must preserve. We must move towards cost standardisation, even if the operation is very complex. You will certainly remember the attempt made by the Giovannini Committee on standardization, for example, of Members' salaries at European level. I believe that we must go in that direction to arrive at some sort of European standard cost, as far as elected assemblies are concerned, which compares salaries, but also the services that Members enjoy. In fact, I repeat that the quality of the services supporting parliamentary activity is a condition for the quality of the exercise of the parliamentary function and also for the freedom of mandate. That constitutional rule, which is often invoked, in my view also out of place, i.e. the absence of a mandate, depends on the possibility of the individual Member having the information and expertise necessary to take a decision freely, because the democratic principle means that access to the parliamentary office is free and can involve anyone, whatever his personal and professional history, and that the elected one once entered Parliament in order to exercise his function with full conscience and freedom of mandate, needs highly professional support. However, I believe that nothing will ever be enough in terms of organization and rationalization if it does not improve the overall quality of Parliament's work and the public's view of parliamentary work. For this reason, there is a constitutional level of reform, which concerns the reduction of parliamentarians and the reform of bicameralism, in which I believe that the Senate should not be an element of restraint, of obstacle or of corporate defence, but rather support it by working together to redefine its mission and role as it is in all parliamentary systems for the second House. There is, however, an organisational level that is already in our availability, both regulatory and in agreement between the two branches of Parliament, and it must immediately maintain the reorganization of the Senate Services and integration with those of the House in order to simplify and maximize effectiveness and efficiency. I think that this is the task and the objective of the budget, of the action of the Quaestors and of the entire Presidency Council for the next year, and with this we reaffirm the vote in favour of the budgetary documents under consideration. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u133	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, as far as the Senate's internal budget for the financial year 2013 is concerned, I can only stress yet another fraud against the citizens. I am talking about fraud because the cash surplus of the 2012 statement has not been entered into the initial cash fund of the 2013 forecast balance sheet as required by the Rules of Administration and Accounting. De facto, this accounting device also prevents the comparison between the various budgets that have occurred over time, thus weakening the principles of continuity and compatibility, the basis of both transparency and the possibility of control by Italians. Moreover, once again, even if there have been some efforts, we cannot reduce the expenses as often announced, I believe above all because of the strength of various corporations inside and outside the Senate structure that prevent in fact from intervening on real waste and expenses that are no longer justified or justifiable. However, in the face of the country's crisis (and I remember that from 2009 to 2012 people in absolute poverty doubled from 2,400,000 to 4,800,000) I believe that Parliament must make an effort and an act of courage to reduce the costs of politics while maintaining its quality, aligning economically with European standards. We cannot always call Europe back only when it comes to hitting citizens' pockets and ignoring it when it comes to touching the pockets of the very privileged few. However, we welcome today's commitment by the Quaestors to further rationalise internal management costs, to take all necessary measures to enable the submission of draft laws, amendments, inspection union acts and address acts in purely electronic format and to revise conventions with airlines, and we thank the entire Assembly for the approval of our G4 agenda. Despite this, given the considerable criticalities still present, the 5 Star Movement will abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u136	MANDELLI (PdL). Mr President, I should like to thank you for your work, the Presidency Council and the Quaestors' Senators. Today we are called to approve the revenue and expenditure of the Senate for the financial year 2012 and the draft internal budget for the financial year 2013. Already for some years the Senate of the Republic has undertaken a policy of rigorous management of its internal budget and the data of the summary contained in the statement show a positive development of the management with reference to the objectives of containment of the expenditure. It is clear that at such a delicate time for the state accounts it would be easy to demagogy and fall into exploitation. We are talking, however, about expenditure that is needed to ensure democracy. In this sense, the objective of ensuring transparency, rigour and sobriety is an important objective to be pursued all together and it is also a concrete response to this wave of anti-politics that is going through our country. Before asking citizens for sacrifices, it is right, right and moral that their representatives set the right example. We have done so in terms of compensation and vitality, and we must continue to make efforts in this direction. The accounts show that the process of reducing the overall cost of the Senate continues, which has taken on significant proportions over the last few years. The transparency of the Senate's budget has certainly improved and, while appreciating the results achieved in this respect, further efforts will only improve the relationship with the citizens and will help to ensure that they have full accounts, it is all for the benefit of the same relationship between public administration and citizens. The Senate of the Republic testifies, even in the debate I heard in the morning, to have full awareness of the economic situation in which the country is located and to contribute for its part to the containment of expenditure. Let me give you one example of simplification. Despite some rumors that grow on the basis of contractual automation or legal provisions (employees' pensions or former senators' pensions), it is clear that the balance sheet also decreases in absolute value, and this means that the containment work that has been going on for years is real and tangible and finds confirmation in this budget: in this sense we must continue. A figure that has certainly already been mentioned, but worth remembering is that the decrease in expenditure between 2012 and 2013 is 13,647 million euros (-3,81 percent). In this context, therefore, hoping for a reorganization of the services that do not penalise the activity of the senators, we welcome the attempt to deburocratize the system, which certainly needs to be renewed and modernized, and we await the proposal to reform the organizational schemes of the Chambers, as announced by Senator De Poli, which will certainly be an important step in this virtuous cost reduction. Therefore, recording with satisfaction the latest virtuous developments in the expenses of the Senate administration, the Il Popolo della Libertà Group announces its favorable vote on the draft of the Senate's revenue and expenditure accounts for the financial year 2012 and on the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2013, with the hope of achieving with ever greater determination the work of rationalizing the costs of the institutions, which not only proves urgent from the strictly accounting point of view, but is absolutely necessary to bring citizens closer to the institutions. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u139	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, speaking on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party and making my own the comments that Senator Pegorer and, with reference to the agenda G1, Senator Pizzetti have already made on behalf of the Group, in conjunction with the other majority groups and also with the Mixed Group. I would like to take up, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the meaning of today's debate. It was certainly a constructive debate on the basis of the debate that we have had in recent days, as the Secretary of Parliament, also within the Presidency Council of the Senate of the Republic. The debate has also been very correct, despite sometimes, but this is in the sensitivity of each one, there has been some point of judgement perhaps not sufficiently confirmed by the facts and the same figures: I think it can be corrected in the future, even in a perspective of seriousness and intellectual honesty that must be pursued here by everyone. I would like to thank the College of Quaestors: I do so on behalf of my Group, but also as a member of the Presidency Council. And I would like to thank here, and it is not a formal thank you, President Grasso, who wanted to give a boost to the process of rigour: a process of real rigour that the Senate has already undertaken for some years and of which we must continue to pursue the strategy. Today we are called upon to approve this budget (and we will approve it) which, as in all the institutions, is an extremely important act. It is an act that has an exquisitely political value - as other colleagues have already said, in particular by Senator Petraglia - as well as of course technical. In this budget of politics and strategies are given, that is, we try to share what is a line within the majority groups. As the Senate is an institution, however, we try to ensure that all of this is shared by all the members of the Senate and by all the Groups: it is important that the budget, being an act of great importance, is shared by all the political groups. This is the first budget of our parliamentary term. It is a budget that arrives in November, unfortunately, and this certainly represents a critical element, certainly justified in part by the change of the legislature, as we settled in March. This critical issue will have to be remedied in the next exercise with a commitment that I feel I should also take on in my role as a member of the Presidency Council, certain that I also share this assessment with the President, my fellow Quaestors and my other colleagues in the Council. Whoever has been a public administrator (and there are so many here) knows very well how difficult it is to work for twelfths. And we must all thank the staff of the Senate, the offices and the managers, who have obviously worked in a difficult situation, because there is no certainty of the financial resources available and, therefore, we manage to make investments with greater difficulty. I would like to apologise to my fellow Members if I take advantage of their patience to propose a couple of considerations which I feel I share just today, the day we are approving, or at least we are discussing the budget. Arriving in this building, for us who crossed the threshold for the first time as elected parliamentarians, was obviously an emotion (for me it was, and I imagine that it was so for many others), and to this was added, for some of us, also the honour of sitting in the Senate Presidency Council. I say this because we have entered, as we stand in the Presidency Council, into the heart of today's debate, into what must be the strategies of the administration of the highest institution of our Republic, the Upper House. A place where the history of our Republic has found, found, and hopefully, we hope more and more to find high testimonies. It is the place where the political destiny of our nation is written daily. Perhaps we should always bear this in mind in our attitudes, in our policymaking and in our work here. This is the place where people, men and women, are confronted and collide with very different ideas, but they must have a common goal: to work for the good of the national community, which has entrusted us with the enormous task of making laws, of building through the legislative acts for which we are responsible the future of Italy, of men and women, of children, of young people and of the old of our country. So, the Senate has to do a huge job, and to do it in the best possible way it needs an efficient structure. For this reason, the budget is so important: because it must be aimed at this. It is a structure that must do things and must help us to do our work well, as other senators have rightly pointed out before me, including Senator Lanzillotta of the Civic Choice Group for Italy and our Vice-President. Therefore, we need an efficient structure, quality management, adequate environments and services that allow senators to perform their functions effectively, and not because we are a caste (we are not really and we must not be, and probably so many of us, I would say all in this legislature, are far from feeling chaste and being chaste). Therefore, we must play our role because we are senators, because the Italian people have sent us here; we must work well because, if we work badly, we do worse the laws, that is what we are sitting here for. Then we must be able to perform our functions effectively, without dispersing energy and resources. Indeed, as I have already pointed out, rigour is the essential element; our President, from the very beginning, since the first sitting of the Presidency Council, has put this issue. Of course we must be aware of the delicate political and institutional moment; we are not Martians, and therefore we know that our country and its institutions are going through a delicate political, institutional and economic moment. Here, we must not hide the difficulties that all of us, when we go on the road, when we return to our cities, when we travel around Rome, live daily in our relationship with citizens, who - never as in these times - live with detachment and suffering the institutional places and the protagonists of politics, be they parliamentarians or public administrators of all levels. As a result of this objective state of difficulty in the relationship between citizens and institutions, we cannot but agree on the necessity - it seems to me that in all the interventions it has been emphasized - to make the public administration even more effective, functional and rigorous in the management of the resources: a place where transparency (today this word has been cited many times, along with the "mirror" and "transparent place" and good administration must be recognized and shared characteristics. In this place there must be the balance of resources, the rationalization of processes, the valorisation and training of staff. We are talking about this staff, which is essential. So, also for this, I think you should always be very careful when making statements outside, because words weigh like stones. And the stones here certainly must not be pulled and less than ever to the staff who work within this structure. Therefore, a review of expenditure is needed, not in a linear way, but in terms of objectives and definitions of priorities. The themes of the revision of expenditure, of its rationalization, of the balance of resources and of the valorisation of staff represent the centerpiece of a new culture of public administration. The greater the commitment to achieving these objectives, the more confidence in public institutions will grow. We're part of this piece, too. The Senate budget must represent this very thing and, in this sense, I say that what we are doing today is also a very important political act. Our budget seeks to respond to the request for rigour that comes from the civil community. We too can help to increase confidence in the role of the institutions and restore to them that credibility which, unfortunately, seems to have been lost because of the proliferation of scandals and widespread misconceptions. A sort of fall of dignity, a barbaric way of managing the public thing by so many, unfortunately too many public administrators, who did not deserve the trust that had been placed in them and that with their behavior have produced a fracture between citizens and administration, state and institutions, a fracture that I sometimes think even unbreakable, despite the commitment of the many honest political administrators who daily honor our institutions. I am sure that we are among those who must honor public administrations, we must be truly honorable, in name and in fact. Returning, in particular, to our budget... I invite you to conclude. DI GIORGI (PD). ...it is placed within that strategy, shared since the first meetings, aimed at containing expenditure. So, saving and spending reviews, and not something technical, as is often understood. This is required of the offices and we have moved in the correct direction to analyze the various functions and to evaluate the processes in place to improve them and, where necessary, reset them with a view to greater efficiency. In this perspective, the unification of certain essential services is considered by the Democratic Party Group to be a strong element of rationalization. It concerns the computer services - you have all said so - the library, the documentation and also provides for sharing with colleagues in the House of Deputies and with the services of this. But I would add more, hopefully also with the Presidency of the Council and with the Ministries. Sharing is a very poorly practiced category in public administration. Sharing means greater efficiency, greater transparency, whether they are data, resources, locations or whether they are training courses, purchases, management strategy. Unfortunately, in our administrative culture often sharing is synonymous with loss of power, and this even happens not only between different administrations, but within the same administrations. Our budget gives a signal in the opposite direction: a sharing with other bodies. It will be our task to verify the strategies and initiatives that the directorates will put in place to achieve the shared objectives set out in our budget. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. DI GIORGI (PD). In this regard, I would like to say that the necessary reorganisation of the management and offices is necessary as soon as possible by making the appointments of those responsible in vacant posts so as to enable the offices to act as efficiently as possible. Our challenge, Mr President, is to seek efficiency... [[Comments.]] I'm done! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet. Let me finish. Please, Senator Di Giorgi, I invite you to conclude. DI GIORGI (PD). Our challenge lies in the search for efficiency and our product are the laws. A well-organized and efficient Senate in its structures and services will help us to do our work better and to render a better service to the citizens. I believe that this is the important point and therefore, precisely for these reasons, I am announcing the vote in favour of the Group of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u142	DE POLI, Senator Commissioner. Mr President, before the vote I would like to thank all the senators and all the parliamentary groups for their work on achieving the objective of examining the document in this House today. In particular, I thank the entire administrative structure of the Senate, starting with the Secretary-General, and President Grasso, who in recent months has set out the path for the conduct of a transparent and attentive budget to the needs of our citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u143	I would also like to express my thanks on behalf of the Presidency Council, which has worked very hard and in which we have already set out new objectives for the future that we will certainly achieve. We proceed to the vote on the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2012 (Doc. VIII, No 1). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote by simultaneous ballot, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2012 (Doc. VIII, No 1). It's approved. Resumption of the joint debate on the Doc. VIII, No 1, and Doc. VIII, No 2, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Doc. VIII, No 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2013 (Doc. VIII, No 2). It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to Senator Taverna's request, during yesterday's afternoon sitting, proposals for amendments to the timetable adopted by majority vote by the Conference of Leaders were voted on and rejected, with a view to anticipating the vote on the report by the Assembly of Elections and Parliamentary Immunity on the contested election in the Molise Region. The rejection of these proposals led to the foreclosure of the proposal made pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, to debate and vote on the same subject at the same sitting as yesterday. In today's afternoon sitting this proposal was repeated, based on the same Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. However, the so-called 'urgent' procedure referred to in the abovementioned regulation cannot be invoked in the present case. The request, in fact, far from foreshadowing the inclusion on the agenda of the Assembly of a new subject, in accordance with the spirit of the norm, is rather an amendment to the timetable approved yesterday. This proposal for an amendment affects a specific point in the timetable, on which two separate votes were held yesterday by the Assembly, which confirmed and finalized the decision of the Conference of Leaders. That is the Presidency's assessment. 14.22 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u147	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I would like to denounce Sergio Rizzo's ignoble manipulation of the 'Corriere della Sera' of 5 November, which falsely described as a report by the European Commission as a mere working document drawn up by Mr Bo Søndergaard of the Nordic Green Left on the CASE dell'Aquila project (I refer to the intervention concerning the 15,000 people who have been housed in homes built in record time). The European Commission has branded Mr Søndergaard's working document as 'confused', which is in total contrast to what the European Commission itself has officially stated, which - I quote - considered that the construction of the housing modules for so many people in such a short period of time, given the circumstances, has been a great success. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] and that, on that occasion, it was fully in line with the conditions and objectives of the Community Regulation, because it faced an urgent need for thousands of people who were left homeless as a result of the earthquake, providing them with temporary accommodation until they could return to their homes. As you can see, Rizzo's is a vulgar and fatious mystification of reality, aimed at intoxicating public opinion with true lies on the basis of a document of part aimed at discrediting Italy and which unfortunately, in Italy, finds its inspiration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u150	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to give a voice in this House to Mr Perrotta Nicola, a person suffering from a very serious disability for whom he is forced to walk in a wheelchair. Speaking to him, I believe I am also giving voice to so many other people who may have found themselves in situations similar to that in which he has stumbled. Mr. Perrotta, this summer, on holiday in Viserba di Rimini, booked at a restaurant a lunch with relatives and friends, after having first several times called to manifest his condition and ask for assurances - punctually pronounced - on the accessibility of the premises by person, who can move exclusively with the wheelchair. When Mr. Perrotta arrived at the restaurant, he found him inaccessible and was forced to find another one. He made an exposure to the Municipality of Rimini; exposed examined by the Command of the vigilantes of Rimini, who replied that the restaurant in question had been authorized in times prior to the issuing of the last criteria programmers approved by the Municipality, with the consequence that, although lacking accessibility for the disabled, the same place had to be considered perfectly in order. I believe that all of this is not only with common sense, but also with the principles of law and with the rules. Once the criteria requiring new allocations have been laid down, it is not possible in these cases not to demand compliance by the recipients of the rules. I will turn my final statement into a question. In any case, today I wanted to testify to this fact in this House because I think it is very serious that this kind of situation can still happen, and moreover in the context of a very high-level tourist system, such as the Riviera Romagnola. I have finished this communication, Mr President, but I would just like to add the request to the Ministry of Labour to reply to act 4-00533, which is a written question which I submitted on 10 July 2013 and which has not yet been answered. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u151	It will be the Presidency's responsibility to convey the reminder you have made.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u154	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, we learn from the press that yesterday, in Brussels, the Minister for Economic Development, Flavio Zanonato, said that Italy would open up to gas extraction and that some gasifiers will be built to import liquefied shale gas from the USA, which costs three times less than conventional gas. It seems that the Minister has in some way also opened up to the extraction here in Italy of this unconventional gas trapped in the rocks of the subsoil that is extracted by the technique of the crushing of the rocks, technique that rightly meets, in our opinion, a strong opposition from the environmental groups of all Europe, because it is an aggressive technique, potentially dangerous for the aquifers and capable of triggering seismic reactions. In the United States, in fact, it is practiced in non-humanized areas. It now happens that in Europe too, with the recent amendments 31 and 78 on the development of exploratory programmes for non-conventional hydrocarbons, it seems to be opening up to the possibility and evaluation of the use of these techniques, despite the opposition of environmentalists; therefore this coincidence alarms us. We would remind the Minister that shale gas extraction is prohibited in France; Bulgaria and Luxembourg are opposed; in Switzerland, Great Britain, Holland and Austria, projects have been suspended; in Germany, Romania, Ireland, the Czech Republic and Denmark there is talk of a moratorium. In Italy, on 18 September, the Chamber's Environment Commission adopted a resolution, on a proposal from the SEL Group, which immediately excludes any activity related to fracking, a commitment to the Government which we hope will follow. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u157	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Mr President, I would like to ask you about your best offices in order to urge the Minister of Health and the Minister for Regional Affairs to follow up on Question No 4-00230, which I tabled last May, concerning the application aspects of Article 11 of Law No 27 of 2012, whose implications have particularly important implications for the employment levels of pharmacists, by keeping these rules to the procedure of extraordinary competitions for the training of graduations for the consequent allocation of pharmacies. The answer, after eight months, has not yet arrived, I believe that your speech, Mr President, can have a beneficial effect and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u158	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, it will be the Presidency's responsibility to urge the ministers responsible to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-135.ana.u159	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.33 p.m.
