ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 28 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. (Brusio). Colleagues, I invite you to stop this noise, because this noise makes it impossible to read even the simplest communications.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u3	The next item is the vote on the election of four actual members and four alternate members of the Commission for the supervision of the Deposit and Loan Fund. The vote, by secret ballot, will take place by ballot, in accordance with the procedures laid down in Rule 25 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Each senator will receive a card on which he can indicate three names for the election of the actual members and three names for the election of the alternate members. In order to prevent any possible misunderstanding, the list of colleagues with the same surname is available to the senators in the Chamber, indicating their names. In order to ensure the smoothest conduct of voting operations, a cabin has been set up in front of the Presidency. My fellow senators, immediately before entering the cabin, will receive a card from the parliamentary assistants which, after the vote, will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. The call will be done in alphabetical order. I declare the vote open and invite President Gasparri to vote first. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the call. (The Senator Secretary of Giorgi and, subsequently, Senator Secretary of Barani make the appeal). (Follows he calls her.) So let's proceed to the second call. (The second call follows.) I declare the vote closed. I therefore call on the Secretary Senators to proceed with the scrutiny of the ballots and the calculation of the votes. I shall suspend the sitting until the voting is completed. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Senators took part in the vote: Aiello, Airbano, Alberti Casellati, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Angioni, Aracri, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bertuzzi, Bianco, Bianco, Bignami, Buemi, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Chaleando, Caliendo, Campanello, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardinals, Chirinnà, Caridi, Carraro, Casaletto, Cassano, Casson, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinio, Cervellini, Chiti, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Crocinciano, Crocinciano, Crocina, Crocinciano, Culigno (The sitting was suspended at 12.37 p.m. and resumed at 13.34 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u4	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of four actual members and four alternate members of the Commission for the supervision of the Deposit and Loan Fund: [[Senators present 280 Senators voting 280]] For the election of four actual members, the senators obtained the votes: [[Marino Luigi 127 Astorre 119 Naccarato 116 Bonfrisco 90 Cioffi 47 Scibona 45 Girotto 45 Fornaro 7 Zanoni 4]] For the election of four alternate members, the senators obtained the votes: [[Dalla Zuanna 126 Gualdani 125 Fornaro 124 Volpi 70 Cioffi 41 Girotto 40 Scibona 38 Astorre 2]] [[Missing votes 15 Blank cards 11 None cards 5]] I therefore proclaim elected actual members of the senators: Marino Luigi, Astorre, Naccarato and Bonfrisco; alternate members of the senators: From Zuanna, Gualdani, Fornaro and Volpi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u7	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I take a few minutes to bring to the attention of this House and, above all, to address a pressing and strong invitation to you, Mr President. There is a great deal of concern going on right now in Sicily and which will unfortunately involve - I am afraid - the whole country. The very serious crisis that is experiencing agriculture in Sicily, especially in the province of Ragusa, but throughout the territory, as well as in the rest of the country, which has been there for years and which has already caused for despair the death of some people (I remember that a lord of Victoria six months ago killed himself, setting himself on fire, and other tragic examples we can cite in this sense), has determined over the years struggles, crises, hunger strikes and demonstrations that unfortunately have produced little results. Now, as last year has already happened, a movement has been organized, so-called forks, which last year paralyzed our island, causing an increase in the economic crisis already underway. This year these people decided to repeat the event, blocking the roads, ports and airports and extending the protest to the rest of the country, or trying to do so throughout the country. I wanted to represent my great concern, along with that of different municipalities and institutions. Finally, the other evening there was a municipal council open in the city of Vittoria, attended by several representatives of the local authorities, from the presidents of the provinces to the mayors and all the members of the various categories: from associationism to the owners of farms, entrepreneurs, traders. I also represented this in the Committee on Agriculture this morning and there was special attention from the members; there was also the visit of the Councillor for Agriculture of the Region of Sicily. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you with strength and determination to act with our Government, with President Letta and with the minister responsible, so that we can deal quickly with this problem, which is not only economic, but is likely to lead to a serious social crisis with repercussions at national level.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u8	Thank you for the report, Senator Padua. The Presidency, in turn, will inform those who are responsible for the subject of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u11	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, distinguished colleagues, it is not the ships who bow in Venice: it is the lagoon of Venice that joins the so-called large ships. The decree Clini-Passera prohibited the transit to the ships above 40,000 tons, but it postponed the ban to the Greek calende, that is to say to when there had been alternative solutions. After twenty months the problem remains; the mayor, of the Democratic Party, Giorgio Orsoni would like to move the port of call to an area of Marghera, property of the Salmini family, near the tanks of the petrochemical, almost inaccessible place, if not with jobs of enormous cost. The president of the harbour Authority Paolo Costa, of the PD, is not from less: it advocates the excavation of a channel of 5 kilometers, wide 140 meters, deep 10, that it would throw to the air seven million cubic meters of sediment very ancient. Maybe he doesn't know the disasters caused by the excavation of the oil canal in the '60s. Perhaps he does not know that in the lagoon interventions are forbidden that are not gradual, experimental, reversible. The risks of accident and environmental disaster remain, but one thing is certain: this project would also be costly, harmful and ineffective. The UNESCO World Heritage Site - let us be clear - is the entire lagoon; the special laws protect the entire lagoon. And the same decree Clini-Passera prescribes to achieve the highest levels of safety also environmental, considered the very particular sensitivity and vulnerability of the environment of the Venice lagoon. Venice and the lagoon are saved if ships dock outside the lagoon. This avoids intersections with vaporets, ferry boats, local passenger traffic, oil tankers and cargo ships. And, docking outside the bulkheads of the MoSE, the crocieristica is not even conditioned by the phenomenon of the high water. There are quick design alternatives, because they can be realized with mobile docks, floating or on sunken dumpsters; reversible, as required by the regulations. If passengers then dock through panoramic boats, new jobs are also created. But these projects have a flaw: they cost less. Perhaps for this reason Minister Lupi has just asked the Maritime Authority for a measure to include the excavation of the Wrong Channel in the objective law. In one shot it would cut out the most effective, fast and less expensive solutions; it would bypass the environmental assessment procedures, the special laws for Venice and the lagoon, the Ministry of the Environment, the Venetian lagoon area plan and open the possibility of spending 150 million public money, perhaps involving private individuals with project financing, made sadly known in Veneto by Mantovani constructions. As a matter of fact, those millions are already allocated in the law of stability: they are already ready to spend them, when they would be much less enough. No, sir, this is where you're putting your carriage in front of the oxen! But we are not oxen. I filed an abbreviated interrogation today to see clearly in these affairs. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u14	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, many colleagues and you yourself will be informed of what is happening in Abruzzo during these hours and days because of the bad weather. A torrential rain lasting for hours has produced a flood of the entire coastal area and some important cities have gone on tilt, including Pescara, the economic capital of the region. There are thousands of displaced people who had to leave their homes because they flooded and unfortunately there was also the tragic and absurd death of a woman who in the early hours of the morning, called by the 70-year-old mother to whom the house had flooded, put herself in the car to help her and unfortunately ended up in a flooded underpass, from where she could not get out and save herself. And she died there, so, for no reason, just because she went to help her mother. I would ask you, Mr President, because the mayors and local administrators are really in great difficulty in dealing with this situation, to speak to the minister responsible so that we can intervene in help and support in order to restore normal conditions as soon as possible. The schools have been closed, many offices have been closed, of course you can imagine the difficulties for port activities, and the damage to the coast, which is one of the most important sources of income of that territory, are really huge. The request for the state of calamity is being prepared: in these circumstances everything is done, but really as representative of the Abruzzo Region here in the Senate I felt obliged to involve you and to involve you, President, in the prayer, of course, that in turn involves the Government. [[Applause from Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u17	IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, I too am speaking on the same subject. In these days the Basilicata region has been completely devastated by bad weather: the situation sees a region completely on its knees. For those who have the chance to turn on our roads, traveling the region from one side to the other is practically impossible: the Ionian coast is devastated, they have shattered roads and have also yielded some real estate. The situation is very complicated precisely because of a road, already from prehistory, which at this moment is destroyed by bad weather. I would also like to ask the Presidency to speak to the relevant ministers to consider with some attention a situation which is very serious and which is further aggravated by the economic framework of the region, which is currently extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u18	It will be the Presidency's responsibility to pass on your requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u19	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-146.ana.u20	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, December 5, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.47 p.m.
