ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.16).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u4	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senator Giovanna Mangili. I ask the Senator Secretary to read the letter sent by Senator Mangili.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u5	. □ Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr Al: Mr The undersigned Giovanna Mangili, born in Monza on 01/08/1967 and resident in Cesano Maderno in via Cantore, 27/b, proclaimed elected Senator of the Republic by the Regional Central Office constituted at the Court of Appeal of Milan, for the Lombardy district, DECLARARA of wanting to renounce the office of Senator of the Republic for strictly personal reasons. In Faith Cesano Maderno 05.03.2013 F.to Giovanna MANGILI
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u9	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, as far as I am concerned, I believe that I will use even less than ten minutes for this explanation of vote, because the sobriety of the wording of this letter must lead the Senate, as on other occasions, but without losing sight of the history of the precedents, to reject tonight, if only by courtesy, the resignation of Senator Mangili. I realize that it is always uncomfortable to violate the secrecy behind the expression "personally motivated." At the same time, however, we realize that this is not a trivial task conferred by this or that bureaucracy. This is a constitutional mandate. And it is a good rule of Parliament, if only out of respect for a personality that we have not yet had the honour to know, to propose to the House today to reject such resignation, perhaps waiting for other reasons or, better still, for other occasions to know her directly and appreciate the reasons, as far as possible, without violating the secrecy; but in that reserve there seemed to be an excess of bureaucraism compared to the constitutional mandate which, even if it is with a highly questionable electoral law, the Constitution had conferred them. Hence our view that we do not accept resignation; we are obviously listening with great interest to different opinions, if they are to be clarified in the course of the debate. ( [[Applause from the LAG, PD and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u12	DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Mr President, in assessing the acceptance or rejection of the resignation of a Member of Parliament, the Chambers, in this case the Senate, are always obliged to take a prudent and balanced attitude, because resignation is not a matter for the resigning party alone. The candidate exercises the passive electorate, but represents the voters who, by exercising the right of active electorate, give life, consistency and legitimacy to democratic assemblies. Therefore, the scrutiny of the Senate Chamber is a form of protection of the vote expressed by the voters and not only of the freedom of the elected one, all the more so - I must say - in the presence of an electoral law such as this. Therefore, the Senate must not condone or judge, but understand the reasons of the resigning, and not try to intuit them or to deduce them from how many others, inside or outside Parliament, say about them. Senator Comrade is right: the laconic nature of the letter of resignation, certainly serious, does not help us in this. The fact that Parliament is taking account of the reasons for its choice is not only a principle of courtesy, but also a guarantee for all in the interests of the electorate as well. In the case of Mr Mangili's resignation, we know practically nothing from the direct person concerned. In the inaugural session, and again today, we listened to the words of the senator elected with the 5 Star Movement that indicated personal motivations. But what we cannot pretend not to know is that, within a few hours, from social networks to news agencies, many members of the 5 Star Movement have intervened on this resignation, starting with the senator's husband, who says: To the accusations of inciuci, presumed impossible ridiculous roped, brianzole kinship and other infamous accusations, we decided to respond with a strong and clear gesture: the resignation as senator of my wife Giovanna Mangili, to reach the colleague and leader of the 5 Star Movement Vito Crimi that says: No chords, no chords. Joan Mangili did not stand the pressure, the attacks, the strong illations. But his election is completely regular. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that one cannot accept the resignation of a senator on the basis of the reasons given by third parties, and indeed all policies and in contrast with those purely personal ones communicated to the House at the inaugural sitting by President Colombo and which we have heard again today. I do not think that we should force Mr Mangili to remain a senator against his will, but I think that she should be asked to give reasons for her resignation in this House, which she must accept. For these reasons I announce, on behalf of the Civic Choice Group for Italy, voting against the resignation of Senator Mangili. [[Applause from the SCP, PD and PDL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u15	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, each Member of Parliament represents the nation: this is what Article 67 of the Constitution says, which continues with the prohibition of mandatory mandates. Why do I quote this article? I quote this to make the expression of renunciation of the mandate contained in the letter of the colleague, which we too would like here to explain, albeit with all due respect for the confidentiality of which he will benefit, the reasons why he renounces what I believe is for each of the elected of every age the greatest of honours: that of representing, without a mandate, the Nation. Senator Della Vedova took into account a debate that took place on the network between members of the same political force to which Senator Mangili It belongs. These reasons may be true reasons, but also probably artifact or inflated reasons, or in any case inspired by a debate driven by some malevolence and some badness. None of these reasons frankly, however, seems to me appropriate to the gesture of the resignation of a Member of Parliament, and to the sense of the vote that we are called to express, which is not in the total availability of each subject, whose will could in some way be co-arted. That is exactly the value of the vote which, by secret ballot, the House is called upon to express. Now, I know that within the 5 Star Movement has developed in these weeks, in these months, a very heated debate on the so-called prohibition of imperative mandate and that this principle is precisely of all the liberal Constitutions of the world (perhaps except Bangladesh, India, Panama, and, as I recall, Portugal too), is a typical principle of liberal inspiration, precisely of the oldest Constitutions of the European Continent. It was in the French Constitution of 1791, it was in the Albertino Statute, it is considered by all Italian constitutionalists as one of the foundations of a representative democracy. I have found and I want to quote, not for anything else, but because I know how dear and how much the 5 Star Movement esteems the work of one of the greatest Italian constitutionalists, Gustavo Zagrebelsky, who states precisely: In liberal constitutions there is no bond of mandate. In ours this is provided for in Article 67, linked to the idea that democracy, as Hans Kelsen said, is a mediating regime, that is, a regime in which multiple reasons must meet each other and find intermediate points. How suitable these words are for this passage of Italian parliamentary and institutional history! The freedom of the representatives, without a mandate, expresses this requirement that in Parliament - the place where we speak - it is possible to pursue the achievement of that middle point and that the House is not the battleground of armies deployed to obtain or all or nothing. Representatives must have that margin of adaptability to the circumstances laid down in their responsibility. Here, in short, I would say this: freedom of mandate, equal responsibility; bond of mandate, equal irresponsibility, total ignorance of the personal qualities of representatives, mortification of personalities. All this is in the vote that we are expressing and there is, I must say, also because the debate within the 5 Star Movement, precisely about the subject of this vote, namely the resignation of the colleague, allows us to believe that the reasons behind these resignations, of this renunciation, as is improperly said in the letter, are the object on which we are discussing. If that is not the case, it would be a good thing for my colleague to come to this House and explain the personal reasons, which may be extraneous to this very valuable area, namely the prohibition of a mandatory mandate. On the basis of this, the House will be able to make its views known and in accordance with that principle which we all - I believe - maintain, the principle that being representatives of the people in this assembly does not mean being representatives of a party, of a party head, of a faction, but being representatives of the whole nation. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u18	MALAN (PdL). Mr President, the resignation of a senator or senator is an extremely important and delicate matter. The fact that they take place at the beginning of the parliamentary term makes it equally, or perhaps even more, important, because they involve a takeover from the outset for the entire activity of the parliamentary term. For these reasons, the People of Freedom considers it essential that the senator, Mangili, who is the senator in that she has been proclaimed such by the electoral commission, comes personally to explain the reasons for her intention to resign. The need for your colleague to come in person is the same as for which there is no voting by proxy. We need a presence that bears witness to his personal and spontaneous intention to resign and that, as a result, these can be examined by the entire Assembly. It has been said that the mandate is not provided for in our Constitution and I agree with what has been said: the responsibility of the Member of Parliament is personal. That is the guarantee and reason for Parliament's existence. This naturally requires a sense of responsibility from the Member of Parliament. In general, it means that coherence, commitment and personal participation are required in all choices, including - indeed, even more so - that concerning resignations, which constitute the end of their parliamentary commitment and involve the taking over of another person. These reasons are in addition to the custom - which is also a good practice - of rejecting in any case the resignation at first instance, on the one hand as a courtesy, on the other as an invitation to the colleague to reconsider his decision, which he may confirm later. But here there is much more than the need for courtesy. There is a need to protect the dignity of the role of parliamentarians as representatives of the nation, in accordance with Article 67 of the Constitution. Therefore, we in the Group of the People of Freedom hope that, if you are to maintain your intention to resign, you will personally explain the reasons for this. At this point, the House will be able to decide calmly, as well as serenely we are counting on our colleague to express herself by coming to this House. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u21	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I respect the views expressed on the need for the resignation to be voted on in the Chamber and for the vote of the House to be the time when the reasons for your choice by the person concerned are represented, precisely because the senator represents the people. The question of personal choice should not, however, be underestimated. I have heard the term "serenely" used: no one can come here serenely. Maybe he is not in a position to face a dog, a place - to tell us - that is not just any square, in which to have to represent his personal motivations or the path that led to make such a choice. Senator Mangili, who is a friend of all of us here, has been representing from the very first day - as parliamentary officials can also confirm; even before the installation it was requested what procedure to follow, since it was probably an event that never happened or a very rare case - the desire not to carry out parliamentary activity. He didn't perform any of the recording operations. Nor are there any elements which might suggest that the parliamentary activity or all the questions raised with regard to the bond of mandate may have been the motivation for his resignation, precisely since it took place earlier. I reject all the illusions that have been made. But I also reject all the discussions on the bond of mandate and whatever else, which in my opinion are absolutely outside the personal choice of Senator Mangili. It is a debate that goes beyond that. As I anticipated at the Conference of the Leaders, I will speak for the request made to Senator Mangili, so that - as the House correctly asked - he can come here and explain his reasons personally. If this does not happen (of course I cannot commit myself on behalf of Senator Mangili), I will ask as an alternative to be able to put in writing, in detail, the reasons that prompted her to make this choice to explain it directly to all my fellow senators. I would ask you not to go looking for non-existent reasons in online debates, which relate exclusively to personal matters of the person concerned. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group. Comments from PdL and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u23	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u24	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, I am sorry, but the only way to speak is by dissenting from the Group and abstaining from voting. I would like to be a little more explicit than my colleagues and colleagues and also to reflect on the fact that this is a colleague, a woman. All this reminds me so much of the white letters of ancient and recent memory that still today many young women sign for the fear that the employer has that they remain pregnant or can get married. [[Applause from the PDL, LAL, LN-Aut, PD and SCpI Groups]] I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, since we are here in a democracy. Colleague Crimes, it is not - as Senator Finocchiaro has said - that for the mere fact that you leave the fingerprint for a passport of service or you make the registration you become senator: you become it because you are representative of a nation and representative of the people. It is not formalism, it is damaging democracy. I remember that this colleague, this woman, this elected senator, as soon as our House was established, immediately communicated her intention to resign. Frankly the letter is very poor, it does not report anything at all. We want to know why it is important to be able to judge. It is not a merely formal fact, courtesy to say no. It must not happen because it is an extremely dangerous precedent. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] Let us all say: we already have a particular electoral law; it is good that every senator has full awareness of his work and his mission. So I am not going to take part in the vote and I hope that you will report back to us. Peacefully: but who is serene in this House? I, Mr Crimes, am never serene, or at least very little, yet I am able to do my job. So I really hope that your colleague, for an important example for all of us and all of us, will come to this House and tell us what the real reasons for your resignation are. [[Comments of Senator Vicari]] I don't think and we don't have to get to the fact that it's the network or others that say that you have to resign a colleague and - above all - a woman and a senator. [[Applause from the PDL, LAG, SCPI, PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and Mixed and Senator Bellot]] . Vote by secret ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u25	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a secret ballot, by electronic procedure, on the resignation of Senator Giovanna Mangili. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. As this is a secret ballot vote, whatever the choice of vote is made, the light that will turn on will be neutral in colour. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCPI, GAL, LN-Aute Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u26	The next item is the resolution on the opinion delivered by the Special Commission for the examination of draft laws for the conversion of decrees-laws and other urgent measures submitted by the Government, pursuant to Article 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, with regard to draft law n. 298: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 24 of 25 March 2013 on urgent health provisions." During yesterday's sitting, the Special Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of the aforementioned conditions of necessity and urgency referred to in the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, with the exception of paragraph 1 of Article 2 of the Decree-Law. Consequently, the Assembly will have to take a decision on the contrary opinion on that opinion. I call the Special Commission Vice-President, Senator Maran.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the work of the Commission. The Special Commission examined the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 24 of 2013 at its meetings of 28 March and 2 April in accordance with the procedure of Article 78 (3) of the Regulation, concerning the assessment of the existence of constitutional requirements of necessity and urgency and the requirements laid down by the law for the issuing of decree-laws pursuant to Article 77 of the Constitution. The critical attention of the Commission has focused on the provisions contained in article 2, paragraph 1, of the decree-law under consideration, which, in particular, authorizes the Minister of Health to regulate with its own regulation some aspects of application of the laws already in force regarding the use of advanced therapy medicines prepared on a non-repetition basis. In this regard, numerous reservations of legitimacy have been raised, which have been prompted by a proposal for a contrary opinion put forward by Senator Bonfrisco and based on several points: the lack of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency found in the same choice of the regulatory instrument; the authorisation to dispose in this matter with rules of regulation to be adopted pursuant to Article 17, paragraph 3, of Law No 400 of 1988; above all, the integration of that authorisation with requirements that would be aimed at limiting, or in any case to conditioning, in a restrictive sense, access to treatment, in possible violation of Articles 3 and 32 of the Constitution. In the course of the debate, other grounds of censure were added, such as that, supported by several parties, based on the alleged substantial circumvention of the prohibition on the provision by decree-law of delegations of legislative power to the Government, which would be disguised in the only apparent form of an authorisation to regulate the matter by regulatory acts. From these reasons of criticism came an opinion shared by a large majority, aimed at denying the existence of constitutional presuppositions and legal requirements for paragraph 1 of Article 2 of the decree-law in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u28	I would remind you that you will now be able to speak no more than one representative per Group, for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Grand Autonomous Left and Freedoms to confirm our position, which is exactly what Senator Bonfrisco expressed in the Commission. We do not believe that there is a matter of urgency on paragraph 1 of Article 2, for several reasons: since the Minister of Health could already exercise, from far away 2009, the possible adoption of directives that could go to heal or regulate the scope to which the provision refers. We are not convinced by the idea, through a decree of urgency on a controversial and extremely delicate matter (and on this something I will say later), of a new delegation to the Minister, I repeat: on a matter that has surrounded itself of a particular pathos, because it has been in the press for many weeks and touches the sensitivity, care, dignity of many children and of many families who want and look to this new frontier with extreme attention. We must not judge today whether experimentation has a scientific basis or not: it will be up to other areas and competent committees, through serious experimentation, to define the path. Today we say that we cannot give a new delegation in white to the Ministry; we cannot determine a particular and accelerated path that could affect absolutely any kind of deepening that, on the other hand, we need to do on this matter. Instead, we are convinced of the idea of safeguarding those who have had the opportunity, through the consent of the AIFA, to continue their experimentation: those famous 31 children who have already started their specific journey through a public hospital, under a special aegis, with the consent of an institute such as AIFA. I do not hide the difficulty and delicacy of this situation, and that is precisely why I would point out to the Minister that we cannot speed up anything at this stage. We call for a Government in its full capacity to form the relevant Commissions, as this is the subject of the Health and Health Commission, to be dealt with in full power. I make this call because we will need to understand in depth what is behind this whole game: we need to speak with the AIFA, with the National Center for Transplants and with the Higher Institute for Health; we need to understand what is happening in Europe in this matter; we need to hear the patients and their families and within this path, serenely, in a fruitful way, as this Senate has always done, arrive at an authoritative decision and above all of great attention to families, the care, the dignity of people, in compliance with Article 32 of the Constitution that safeguards the health of people. Mr. Minister, let's not hide it: there was time to actively pursue this path. We now need a moment of reflection, but we do not hide that the deadline, if we do not want to arrive seconds in this game, is the end of October of this year, when the TAR of Brescia will decide, according to the elements at its disposal, the controversy between the hospital of Brescia and AIFA. Why am I saying we can't afford to get seconds in this game? Because it would mean leaving the important choices that a Parliament must take in the hands of the judiciary once again. [[Applause from the LAG and PdL groups]] Then I repeat: we need a government, we need committees that work also to heal and to arrive at the determination of such important choices. We do not want to leave the kitchens of the hotels: we want to face sensitive decisions like this, important, controversial, but they fall on the skin of people, especially on children. For all these reasons, we also ask the deletion of paragraph 1 of article 2 of the decree-law, keeping paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. Furthermore, Mr President, we want you to be a driving force so that this Parliament can enter very soon into the fullness of its functions. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u32	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Senators and Senators, it is a little strange to have a debate on such an important issue as the use of medicines for advanced therapies by discussing a preliminary constitutionality. It is not clear why the government - always the famous one of technicians - has chosen to pursue this path. Why include in a decree, which has the criteria of necessity and urgency, a subject of a different nature and of particular delicacy? What is the real will behind this request to have a regulatory power that is already fully within its powers? In fact, paragraph 1 of Article 2 contains the authorization to the Government to issue a ministerial regulation, defining it to certain criteria in the manner of preparation, use and evaluation of advanced therapy medicinal products. And, in fact, it is required to entrust to a secondary source of application a prerogative already present in the legal availability of the Government through, among other things, the exercise of the regulatory power that is its own. Moreover, by indicating in a precise way the criteria and principles to which the regulation must comply, it is realized as a real delegation, in itself incompatible with the contents of a decree-law. Precisely on the basis of these considerations, the prerequisites of necessity and urgency provided for by Article 78 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and Article 77 of the Constitution are non-existent and therefore not applicable to paragraph 1 of Article 2. Among other things, we would like to point out a clear contradiction, because with this rule the Government asks Parliament for a self-limitation to its own regulatory power, helping to raise the suspicion of a restrictive will in the enactment of rules relating to a very delicate matter, which provides the guarantee to all patients who are in the same condition of being subjected to the same medical treatment, to the same advanced experimental treatments. This is an area that involves not only medical and research findings, but also ethical ones. We would not like to be faced with an alleged violation of Article 32 of the Constitution, that article which protects the right to health, because it would not guarantee all citizens the possibility of access to the same treatment. But we must be careful not to confuse the freedom of every citizen to take care or not to take care, also using unauthorised or improper therapies, with the right to see his own care approved by the Ministry of Health as effective and not harmful, because this does not fall within the rights of each of us. For this reason, we consider it useful to bring the debate back to the ordinary parliamentary channels by means of a debate in the relevant Commissions. We will have to address the issue of how we are going back to financing, to investing with real resources in scientific research, of how to recognize the work of the research community and the doctors who work, despite a thousand difficulties, in order to develop, through research and technological innovation, safe and effective treatments against common or rare diseases. I would add that the intellectual and moral neutrality with which the Minister has dealt with this issue has aroused much concern in the world of Italian research, concerned because unclear legislation with prescriptive prohibitions risks leaving public researchers behind other foreign countries where, either in a more free or more binding way, clear choices have been made. We of Left Ecology and Freedom are for the most free choices possible, but this country must face the concept of freedom in the field of research and its possibilities once and for all, abandoning the obscurantisms that have prejudiced its development and use in recent years, restoring a healthy relationship between researchers and legislators. On this point, we will be very careful. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u35	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of concern and anguish has created among the citizens part of the measure which is the subject of this debate. Legitimate feelings and expressions, based on the concern of many people to see the hope of access to compassionate care fade away. Far from us wanting to enter into this debate on the substance of scientific applicability or the evaluation of the validity of the protocols relating to these treatments. The question of compassionate care or the definition of medicinal products for advanced therapies prepared on a non-repetition basis has considerable aspects of regulatory and scientific interest, which certainly deserve an in-depth and particular attention from Parliament, which is certainly incompatible with the use of the instrument of emergency legislation, all the more so if implemented by a government which has now resigned. It should also be remembered that since its establishment the Monti Government has made a growing - indeed, I would say suffocating and continuous - recourse to the instrument of the decree-law. All these emergency measures, Mr Giarda himself admits, provide for rules for referring to more than 800 acts of secondary standardisation. In order to make the rules adopted effective, therefore, more than 500 acts would still be needed: just think of the growth of Italy, where the percentage of rules for which secondary intervention was necessary was even 60%. An out-of-the-box! Empty rules, headers written in block letters on blank sheets: in short, paper without content, which has solved nothing of merit issues, but which has served the Government to show off on the press at the expense of the country. With part of Decree-Law 25 March 2013, n. 24, and in particular paragraph 1 of Article 2, the Government has forced the hand once too much, invoking the constitutional presuppositions of necessity and urgency referred to in Article 77, which, on the other hand, are clearly not resorting at all. So much so that paragraph 1 of the aforementioned article requires to a regulation of the Minister of Health the definition of a new discipline of secondary rank in the matter of medicinal products for advanced therapies prepared on a non-repetition basis, thus operating in contradiction with the constitutional dictation, which provides for the immediate effectiveness of the provisions contained in the acts prepared through the decree-law. Nor can it be kept silent as the wording of that paragraph also appears to lack due respect for Article 32 of the Constitutional Charter, according to which the Republic protects health, but under no circumstances can the law violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. Even if we were to make abstraction of the constitutional considerations that have just been carried out, it is clearly not acceptable that an argument of this importance can be dealt with by means of a decree-law. On the contrary, this standardisation must be dealt with with by a weighted legislative measure in the legitimate parliamentary seat. It is clear that the Government, also in this circumstance, has proved incapable of finding suitable solutions and of useful application to the problem in question, limiting itself, instead, through the use of the decree-law, to freeze the situation quo. However, it is necessary to intervene in order to legitimise the use of compassionate care, as defined in the remainder of Article 2, meeting the requests and hopes of patients and avoiding leaving the argument to the discretion of judges, called upon by citizens to express themselves in order to fill a clear normative vacuum. The remodulation of the decree-law in the phase of conversion, amended by the unconstitutional part, thus allows this Chamber to give a concrete response to the requests raised by the patients concerned, guaranteeing the possibility of continuing to count on compassionate care and giving them and their families hope. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u38	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, Minister, what the decree contains in situations of painful discomfort and fragility, which appeal to the community, impose heavy and certainly conflicting decisions. They are demanding on the part of the legislator from an ethical, biomedical and legal point of view. The decree refers to the principles that are the foundation of medical ethics and research: the first is that of non-evil, while the second is that of charity, which together, combined with scientific and ethical rigour, represent the foundation of the implementation of the principle of justice. The ratio of the Decree-Law in question is to regulate the use of advanced therapy medicinal products prepared on a non-repetitive basis and the therapeutic use of medicinal products undergoing clinical trials. It is therefore a balance - and I tend to emphasize the noun - between therapeutic expectations in clinical situations of particular gravity, ongoing treatments arranged by decision of some courts sometimes in conflict with each other and observance of good clinical practice; therefore it involves a transitional derogation from the current legislation in this matter, in order to be able to give an adequate response to the emergency: to remedy discrimination resulting from autonomous pronouncements of judges among patients who had already begun treatment. The continuation of treatment on individual patients with advanced therapy medicinal products based on mesenchymal stem cells, initiated before the entry into force of the decree in question, under the responsibility of the prescriber, is therefore authorised. The rule, of course, is controversial from a biomedical point of view, as there are no studies in scientific literature valid for the therapeutic protocol used, although not yet known. However, the rule is based on the custom that health treatment that has not caused serious side effects may not be interrupted. According to the decree, the aforementioned treatments must be used exclusively - I believe this is the important aspect - in public hospital, university clinic or institute of hospitalization and treatment of a scientific nature. This is in order to ensure transparency of procedures, welfare safety, monitoring of clinical data and adverse events. The AIFA and the Higher Institute of Health, with the collaboration of the National Center for Transplants, collect and evaluate clinical data on the outcome and adverse events of the treatments performed and a regulation is foreseen for the use of the treatments concerned in individual patients. If at this moment I had to make a nail, I would say that the decree represents the concrete implementation of the respect of the right to health proper of those patients suffering from very serious clinical situations, so that they do not see hope as an unsubstantiated inner impitio scientifically and legally, but as respect proper to their dignity in paths that are strictly subject to attention and observance. This I believe represents the declination of hope in patients that we want to define as "terminals" and that require absolute respect for the treatments that are offered to them. Therefore, the decree responds to a criterion of great rigour, which does not distinguish or distinguish, but is placed in a position - be it clear - of protection and respect for the dignity of patients, in order to avoid - let me say this in this House - that they can be the subject of speculation easily predictable when we find ourselves in a state of extreme suffering, especially if we are newborn. At the head of the law, it is pointed out that the provision falls within the scope of the provisions of Articles 32 and 38 of the Constitution, including the right to continue treatment as a priority and fundamental one. The Court of Cassation, on 18 June 2012, in judgment n. 9969, thus expressed itself and statuative: " (...) the right to health has a greater dimension in our system than it can derive from the mere right to care or assistance, understood in the traditional sense of therapeutic measures suitable to eradicate the disease or to stop its evolution. On the contrary, the necessary reference to the protection of human dignity allows us to believe that the conditions of health covered by the constitutional forecast coincide not only with the preparation of means intended for the healing of the affected subject but also with what else can be done to alleviate the prejudice not only physical but, if we wish, existential of the assisted, at least because of all that manifest concrete usefulness to alleviate the functional limitation even if without appreciable results in relation to the possible regression of the disease. The decree also originates from the need arising from the infusion of mesenchymal cells by the intervention of some courts, most of which have been expressed for the continuation of treatments already administered. Advanced therapy medicinal products are covered by Regulation No 1394/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council (13 November 2007), which provides for the placing on the market, subject to a marketing authorisation, issued in accordance with a centralised procedure, which requires scientific evaluation of quality, safety and efficacy by the European Medicines Agency. The Member State in which the production plant is situated shall authorise the manufacture of the abovementioned medicinal products. On 5 December 2006, the Minister of Health adopted provisions to allow the use of preparations for somatic cell therapy, without marketing authorisation, recognised by the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) as clinically and scientifically established. The same decree also allowed the use of medicinal products for gene therapy and somatic cell therapy on individual patients in the absence of a valid therapeutic alternative in cases of urgency and emergency, but under the responsibility of the prescriber and the production laboratory with regard to the quality of the medicinal product. In addition, a specific provision of the Ministerial Decree authorised until 31 December 2007 the production of products for gene therapy and somatic cell therapy without marketing authorisation, provided that they are carried out in laboratories of scientific institutions or equivalent public structures with certain requirements. By Law No 88 of 7 July 2009, the Italian legislation transposed Article 3 of Directive 2001/83/EC which makes the discipline of industrial medicinal products not applicable to any medicinal product for advanced therapy... prepared on a non-repetitive basis, in accordance with specific quality requirements and used in a hospital, under the exclusive professional responsibility of a doctor, in compliance with an individual medical prescription for a specific product intended for a particular patient. The production of these products is authorised by AIFA. The Agency shall ensure that national traceability and pharmacovigilance requirements as well as the specific quality requirements referred to in this point are equivalent to those laid down at Community level for advanced therapy medicinal products for which authorisation is required in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to stress once again that the decree represents a path in my opinion - I would not like to abuse terminology and aggressiveness which might seem emphatic - rigorous and virtuous, in order to ensure that scientific rigour is married to the right expectation of patient hope. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Choice Group for Italy, I think I welcome the existence of the constitutional prerequisites of necessity and urgency. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u41	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House is called upon here to speak exclusively on the proposal of the Special Commission not to acknowledge the existence of the extraordinary conditions of necessity and urgency limited to Article 2 (1) of Decree-Law No 24 of 2013 laying down urgent health provisions. Paragraph 1 of Article 2 of the Decree-Law in question requires a regulation of the Minister of Health to define a new discipline, of secondary rank, in the field of advanced therapy medicines prepared on a non-repetition basis, as defined by Legislative Decree No 219 of 2006. The regulation could also delimit the treatments that can be carried out for each drug. It is therefore clear that the paragraph in question is not assisted by the essential constitutional requirements of necessity and urgency, given the non-immediate applicability of the provision in question which requires a secondary, dependent and subsequent source for the purposes of the regulatory application of that provision. It should also be stressed that clear constitutional reasons are added to those of a political and regulatory nature which, however, have also reflected constitutional requirements. In our program we say that Italy is one of the few countries with a public health system with universal access. However, two facts are undermining the universality and homogeneity of the National Health Service: territorial differences and the subtraction of resources and talents to the public. Economic objectives are now tending to prevail over health and quality of services. We believe that access to the services of the National Health Service should be guaranteed free of charge and universally; that scientific research should be promoted, starting with that on rare diseases, and the correct use of medicines; that policies at national level should focus on measuring the quality of interventions with data that must be in the public domain and that our country should quickly align itself with other European states following the indications that the World Health Organization has established for the application of pain therapy. The decree under consideration is badly written. Born from legitimate needs, it finds its root basically in the inability of the State and the Regions to ensure universal non-discriminatory access to effective, publicly controlled and controllable and scientifically validated treatments also for rare diseases, in compliance with the principle of freedom of choice. The vagueness of the principles and guiding criteria of paragraph 1 of Article 2 almost constitutes a blank delegation, a delegation which on the one hand seems to conflict with the derogation contained in the successive paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 (which would also constitute an unreasonableness from the point of view of the equal treatment of citizens in accordance with Articles 3 and 32 of the Constitution) and on the other hand is not assisted by those elements of legal certainty and punctuality that could avoid dangerous situations of abuse in public structures. On the other hand, we need a balance between the different needs, ensuring that all citizens have access to therapeutic protocols that have already been tested and tested in public structures. The lack of clarification of the effects of the regulatory procedures contained in paragraph 1 of Article 2 means that on its content it is not possible to recognize at the moment the existence of extraordinary conditions of necessity and urgency, being able to constitute a derogation legislation in the matter of production and use. There is therefore a need for a regulatory solution decided directly by Parliament. It is not dignified by the representative Assemblies, and in particular by the Senate, to hand over to the Minister of Health, and moreover by regulation, or by means of secondary legislation, which is also a resigned Government, the integral structure of a new discipline concerning the regulation of gene therapy medicinal products, somatic cell therapy medicinal products, as well as tissue engineering products. These very delicate subjects, with enormous moral, ethical and social impact, must be addressed only in their own institutional fora, in Parliament and with appropriate regulatory sources: the law. This is why the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group believes here and now that it wants to eliminate from the decree-law an unconstitutional provision, while maintaining in force paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 2 that allow in an exceptional way the administration to patients suffering from serious diseases of stem cell medicines produced by the Stamina method at the Civil Hospital of Brescia. The 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group, moreover, is already responsible in the examination of the decree-law to address the whole of the legislation relating to the use of stem cells through concrete amending proposals that can avoid the risks inherent in article 2, paragraph 1. In fact, it cannot be excluded that the Minister of Health could adopt stricter criteria for the use and use of stem cells than the treatment by way of derogation authorised in the hospital in Brescia: this is because the Minister will necessarily have to comply with the European legislation which includes an authorisation procedure dictated by AIFA that, even in the case at hand, would not have allowed the use of drugs mentioned by way of derogation from Community legislation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the content of this decree-law and the need for a thorough examination of its substance urgently require the convening of the Health Commission and all other standing committees. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On behalf of the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group, I would once again like to ask you to convene, without delay, the Permanent Commissions of the Senate for a thorough, constructive and appropriate examination of the measures, instead of an all-inclusive and exceptional Special Commission. [[Applause from the M5S and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI) Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u44	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the speeches that have already dealt with this subject in particular, I would like to give a very brief summary of the concerns and reservations expressed by the Group of the People of Freedom on the decree-law on stem cells, proposing to the Commission to express its views on the constitutional and urgent requirements of this much-discussed decree. The non-susistence of the urgency of paragraph 1 of Article 2 is given by the fact that the decree refers to a source of application that is the regulation (as has been mentioned very well by colleagues who preceded me), providing for the exercise of the typical regulatory power that however is already in the availability of the Government. Moreover, because, in limiting the exercise of that regulatory power, it seems to reveal a purpose and prelude to a restrictive effect on how many others need the care in question. The fundamental right to health, protected by Article 32 of the Constitution, as well as the constitutional principle of equality laid down in Article 3 would therefore be so blatantly violated. And I would add: the Community code, to which my colleague Romano, adopted by legislative decree No 219 of 2006, also referred so well, makes the discipline of industrial medicinal products not applicable to any medicine for advanced therapy, (...) prepared on a non-repetitive basis, in accordance with specific quality requirements and used in a hospital (...) in execution of an individual medical prescription for a specific product intended for a specific patient, as provided for in Article 3, paragraph 1, letter f- bis), of the aforementioned legislative decree, as amended by Law No 88 of 2009. Everything was already in our law. The production of these products is authorised by AIFA. The Agency shall ensure that national traceability and pharmacovigilance requirements, as well as the specific quality requirements laid down in this Decree, are equivalent to those laid down at Community level for advanced therapy medicinal products for which authorisation is required under Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. Therefore, on the basis of this already existing rule, a decision of the AIFA or a ministerial decree was sufficient to regulate the use of medicinal products for advanced therapy, including stem cells, without having to resort to an urgent decree-law. In fact, from 7 July 2009 to 21 March 2013, no measures were taken. In view of this, the People of Freedom proposed to give an opinion contrary to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. I shall conclude, Mr President, by abandoning the legal and parliamentary language and wanting to explain the political motivations that have led us to this difficult choice. The moral and civil implications of the issue raised by the clamor of the press, but above all by the desperation of so many families, who see their children die in terrible suffering and without hope, should lead Parliament to take care more closely and with all the skills possible, as Senator Bianconi recalled, to write a law that does not kill the hope of science and patients. For this reason, delegation in white to implementing regulations cannot be given to anyone, less to a government never voted by the Italians and that the Italians continue not to vote. On the other hand, we intend to vote for a law that gives guarantees to the process of scientific research in Italy, not inspired by hyperburocracy, but inspired by the contents of the experiments, which we want to do quickly, because those children, Minister, have time to wait for your slowness and your stamps do not have it. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u47	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that the Group of the Party of European Socialists shared, at yesterday's session of the Special Commission, the opinion expressed by the majority of the Commission on the absence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency in Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which contains a series of provisions aimed at dealing with certain complex and in some respects emerging situations determined in the field of production and, above all, the use, as has been mentioned, of advanced therapy medicinal products which include gene therapy medicinal products, somatic cell therapy medicinal products and tissue engineering products. There is, we believe, indeed a lack of standardization between the Community Regulation n. 1394 of 2007 and the previous national legislation, the Ministerial Decree of the Ministry of Health of 5 December 2006, the so-called Turkish-Fazio Decree, which regulates in our country, being still in force, the use and production of medicines for gene therapy and somatic cell therapy, outside clinical trials and which allows the use of these preparations on individual patients, as it was recalled, in the absence of a valid therapeutic alternative in cases of urgency and emergency that pose the patient in danger of life or serious damage to health, as well as in cases of serious disease with rapid progression, under the responsibility of the prescriber and, as regards the quality of the medicine, under the responsibility of the director of the laboratory for the production of such medicines. It is precisely on this responsibility, whose assessment is the responsibility of AIFA (the Italian Agency for the Drug), that the AIFA itself intervened regarding the preparations made at the Hospital Hospital Hospitals in Brescia, with an order that prohibited the production of preparations that were precisely made and administered in those laboratories. Following AIFA's prohibition order, some patients or parents of minor patients addressed the competent judicial authorities that in most cases ordered the hospital company to initiate or continue therapy. It is therefore evident from these dynamics that there is a defect or contrast between the existing rules that must be regulated. Nevertheless, we believe that the instrument of the decree and in particular the contents of paragraph 1 of Article 2 are not adequate to carry out this regulation, not recognizing in this paragraph 1 the prerequisites of necessity and urgency, since the current wording of Article 2 does not guarantee equality in treatment between those who wanted access to the treatment of these medicinal products for advanced therapies and those who have already accessed it on the basis of the provisions cited by some courts. Equal situations are regulated, therefore, not only in a different way, but also at different times, creating a real inequality of treatment. In the case of paragraph 2 of Article 2, the Commission, on the other hand, has recognized the existence of extraordinary conditions of necessity and urgency, since the provision provided for therein is intended to guarantee the continuity of treatment already begun and to overcome the uncertainty resulting from the inevitable litigation, but in the awareness that the examination of a discipline on experimental therapies differed from European legislation must be considered an exceptional and not repeatable case, resulting from the need to deal precisely with the disparities produced by contradictory decisions. In this regard, I have already announced the intention of our Group to amend paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 2, ensuring that legislation complies with European rules and the right of citizens to use therapies also pertaining to the category of so-called compassionate therapies, but certainly safe. In the case of paragraph 1 of Article 2, our Group has considered that the extraordinary conditions of necessity and urgency do not exist. The rules provided for herein are not immediately applicable because they refer to a future regulation, without, however, providing for the fixing of any date for the adoption of the regulation itself, of which we do not see the urgency, considering that the use and use of medicinal products for gene therapy and somatic cell therapy are possible subject to the government's regulatory authority, pursuant to Article 17 (1) of Law No 400 of 1988. The subject of the regulation of the Minister of Health is not in fact defined, constituting a sort of blank delegation to the Government. In the absence of criteria to be referred to, in fact, neither the ratio nor the purpose nor the content of future regulations are clear. It is clear that this constitutes the incompatibility of the provisions in question with the content of a decree-law. The overcoming of the Ministerial Decree of 5 December 2006 and the necessary adaptation of the discipline of medicinal products for advanced therapies to Community legislation must be in compliance with explicit and limited criteria consistent with the objectives set out above. Finally, we believe that the subject matter of the decree-law under consideration cannot, due to its delicateness and complexity, be governed by a regulation of the Government, requiring an appropriate solution of primary rank that only Parliament can guarantee even when converting the decree-law. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco: Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u48	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the opinion contrary expressed by the Special Commission, pursuant to article 78, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, regarding the existence of the conditions required by article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, as well as the requirements established by the legislation in force, with regard to paragraph 1 of Article 2 of Decree-Law No 24. Senators who intend to comply with the Commission's opinion will have to vote yes. Senators who wish to speak against the Commission's opinion will have to vote no. Senators who intend to abstain will take a decision accordingly. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 271 Senators voting 270 Majority 136 Favorables 252 Contrars 17 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u49	The Conference of Leaders, which met this afternoon, approved the timetable for next week. The Assembly will hold a meeting on Tuesday afternoon, 9 April for the discussion of motions on the municipal tax on waste and services (TARES) and on Wednesday 10 for the examination of the decree-law on health matters, for which the timing was divided between the Groups. The Conference of Leaders agreed on the need to assign to the Special Commission the affair concerning the Government Report on the liberalization of economic activities and the reduction of the administrative burden on businesses. It also took note of the Minister's request for relations with Parliament to assess the referral to the same special Commission - in order to obtain its opinion - of other schemes of government decrees, some of which refer to the previous legislature. The list of measures, reported by the Government to the Presidency, will be forwarded to the Groups in order to verify, also in agreement with the Chamber of Deputies, the procedural follow-up. The Conference of Leaders also decided to initiate proceedings, in conjunction with the Chamber of Deputies, aimed at the reconstitution of Italian delegations at international parliamentary assemblies. Finally, the Presidency reminded the Group leaders of what was decided unanimously by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on 22 December 2008, with reference to the speeches on items not on the agenda of the Assembly. I reread the principles defined by the Junta: 1. Senators who, at the opening of or during the sitting, intend to speak on matters not on the agenda must inform the Presidency in advance of the subject of their speeches. The object must be specified; a simple indication of intervention on the order of work is not sufficient. 2. The Presidency shall assess the actual relevance of the subject of the speech to the subjects before the House, giving the floor when it finds it. 3. When this is not established, it is the Presidency's task to determine when the intervention will take place (as a rule: at the end of the sitting) and to harmonise the duration of the intervention (in accordance with recent practice: not more than three minutes). 4. The criteria set out in point 3 shall be waived for matters of particular importance which are urgently required for the Assembly to be informed for their general interest and, in any event, in cases where it is the same President of a parliamentary group that requests the floor, in view of the particular political and institutional role that each Parent Group plays. 5. It is also clear that when a specific item is raised in the course of the examination of any matter, the Presidency will give the applicant the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u52	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the Easter weekend there were two other victims of the economic crisis in our country. An unemployed entrepreneur from Ferrara and an entrepreneur from the tourism sector of Lipari, such Edoardo Bongiorno, committed suicide. The latter killed himself with a gunshot wound in his small but historic Lipari hotel. He left a script of the following content: Without work there is no hope, without hope there is no desire to live. God forgive me. This news reminded me of an aphorism by Guido Morselli (an aphorist of the early twentieth century), who reads as follows: "No one has ever taken his own life. Suicide is a death sentence whose execution the judge instructs the sentenced person. Colleagues, I ask you to reflect on the events and on this aphorism that I have read to you and ask you - and ask us all, the politics - if, by chance, we are not at this moment wearing the clothes of that judge who handed to the condemned the execution of his own sentence. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u55	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, fellow senators, the 5 Star Movement, in learning of the very serious death threats addressed to the Palermon prosecutor Nino Di Matteo, a magistrate who has always been at the forefront of the fight against the Mafia and, in particular, in the investigations on the negotiation between the State and the Mafia, intends to express his deep solidarity with Dr Di Matteo and to ask that the State undertake itself in a serious, concrete and effective way to protect this valiant servant of the State and those who still seek truth and justice. The 5 Star Movement also considers of fundamental importance the immediate and no longer postponed institution of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Mafia in order to shed light on the protagonists of our history who still hide today in the shadow of uncertainty and reluctance. Beyond the criminal responsibilities, which will be established in the offices, it is in fact absolutely essential to identify the political and moral responsibilities of those who have endorsed the darkest and most gruesome pages of our country's history. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-9.ana.u57	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 9 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5:43 p.m.
