ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 25 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3-00481 on the conflict in Darfur will be dealt with first. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator, Mr Cociancich, for raising a subject which may not be present today in public attention, but which, as the question points out, has dramatic humanitarian implications and on which the Italian Government remains committed. In order to understand the current phase of the Sudanese crisis, of which Darfur as well as Blue Nile and South Kordofan are a particularly dramatic element, both the consequences of the division of Sudan into two sovereign states and the tensions within Sudan chaired by Bashir must be taken into account. Both of these factors have led to a phase of particular internal tension, both in South Sudan and in Khartoum. In particular, the current phase of Sudanese internal politics is characterized, in the North, by a growing protest, by the political Islam, of the government party, the National Congress Party. In addition, the serious economic crisis resulting mainly from the loss of oil revenues as a result of the secession of South Sudan. In 2015 the presidential elections will be held, in which the current President Bashir - struck by the arrest warrant of the International Criminal Court - declared that he will not return. Last September, the announcement of new economic measures - including the reduction of subsidies for petroleum products, which led to the doubling of petrol and gas oil prices - triggered a violent wave of protests in various cities in Sudan, including Khartoum, which provoked numerous victims as a violent reaction. Mr Bonino, at his meeting in Rome on 3 October last, with Sudanese Foreign Minister Ali Karti, expressed his deep Italian and European concern at the use of force against demonstrators, calling for respect for the right to freedom of expression. At the same time, in all contacts with the Sudanese authorities, we have never failed to express support for the resumption of dialogue between Khartoum and the SPLM (Sudan People's Liberation Movement) of the North: the peaceful coexistence of different peoples and ethnic groups requires, on both sides, the renunciation of the use of force. More specifically on Darfur - the subject of his question - the Italian Government, in the framework of a policy whose lines have been defined in the European context, supported the negotiations that developed between 2009 and 2011, with the mediation of Qatar, which led to the signing, in July 2011, of the "DohaDocument for Peace in Darfur" (DDPD), resulting in a freezing of the conflict. The provisions of these documents are still only partially applied and, by the European Union and Italy, strong pressure is being maintained on the signatories of the agreement to speed up and complete their implementation. Moreover, the Doha process remains - in our opinion - the only way to achieve some progress in the Darfur peace process. Italy therefore calls, with the European Union, for its application to be accelerated. I would also remind you that, in the conclusions of the European Affairs Council of 22 July last, the European countries stressed that there can be no military solution to the conflicts in Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile, inviting all the parties involved to negotiate an immediate cessation of hostilities and to guarantee humanitarian access to the affected populations. The European Union also called on all parties to respect humanitarian law and, in particular, stressed Khartoum's responsibility for protecting civilian populations. At the same time, in the United Nations, the Italian Government supports the UNAMID (United Nations Mission in Darfur) mission to protect the Darfurian civilian population, which the United Nations Security Council recently extended until August 2014. Italy has also supported, politically but also financially, the important mediation work carried out by the African Union in Sudan, in relation to the crises both Sudan-South Sudan and those between the central government and armed opposition groups. The action - on which the honourable Member has asked for clarification - of our development cooperation is part of this difficult framework, for which Sudan is a priority country which, from 2000 to today, has benefited from donations for a total value of about €128 million. The positive results achieved by Italian cooperation are the basis of the recent allocation by the European Commission to Italian cooperation of EUR 8.6 million for the implementation of two components of the European Programme for the Strengthening of Health Services in Sudan. The Darfur region has been the subject of particular attention from Italian cooperation: over the last three years we have granted over € 1.7 million on the emergency channel and on the multilateral side, with interventions in the fields of health, education, the protection of refugees and women, focused mainly in the Eastern States. In addition, a contribution worth EUR 500,000 was made during 2013 for a UN project aimed at preventing and responding to gender-based violence in Darfur. A further contribution of the same kind has already been planned for 2014. Finally, a commitment of EUR 1 million was made to set up an on-site fund at our embassy in Khartoum for activities in the health, water and education sectors, to be carried out with the help of suitable NGOs. In conclusion, through all these instruments - as you said, Mr Senator - European, bilateral and multilateral, the Italian Government will continue to seek a negotiated solution, while actively assisting the local populations affected by a serious humanitarian crisis. Contacts with Khartoum, opposition movements and Juba will continue in the coming months.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u7	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Vice-Minister. I am fully satisfied with the extent of your reply and the detail you have set aside for my question. I agree that the solution must also be found within a multilateral framework and I hope that the European Union can take a political initiative in this regard, as it is clear that there are also other European countries which, for the relations they have historically had with the region, can play a positive role together with Italy in resolving this conflict which, unfortunately, we fear may degenerate further. It is clear that there are important mineral resources in the area, which are certainly one of the causes of the conflict, along with what you have reminded us of the secession of South Sudan. In repeating my thanks, I would just like to remind you that, according to the press agencies, in recent days the conflict has experienced a further leap in quality and gravity and the Kordofan regions, which were at the origin of my question, seem to have fallen into the hands of government forces, with very important human losses, including of minors, among the civilian population.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-00283 on birth points in Sicily and the smaller islands. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u9	Mr President, on the issue outlined in the parliamentary question, as is well known, the agreement approved at the State-Regions Conference on 16 December 2010 setting out guidelines for the promotion and improvement of quality, safety and appropriateness of care interventions in the birth path and for the reduction of cesarean cutting stipulates the commitment of the Government, Regions and Autonomous Provinces to develop a National Programme for the promotion and improvement of quality, safety and appropriateness of care interventions in the birth path and for the reduction of cesarean cut. The first of the ten lines of action contained in the agreement includes the rationalization and progressive reduction of birth points with a number of parts less than 1,000 per year, providing for the matching for equal complexity of activities of the obstetric-gynecological hospital units with those neonatological-pediatric ones, bringing back to two the previous three levels of care; as well as the activation, the completion and the setting up of the system of assisted maternal and neonatal transfer of emergency. The operational programme 2010-2012 of the Sicilian Region for the continuation of the containment and redevelopment plan of the regional health system 2007-2009 foresees, in line with the agreement of 16 December 2010, the revision and the progressive safety of the birth points and the reorganization of the maternal-child network. The Regional Health Plan 2011-2013 (Health Plan) of the Region of Sicily aims to reduce the percentage of maternal and infant mortality, reviewing the network of birth points and enhancing transport services for neonatal emergencies and assisted maternal transport service, so that the Region aligns itself with the parameters set out in the above agreement. Decree 2 December 2011 of the Department of Health of the Sicilian Region, which includes "Reorder and rationalization of the network of birth points" establishes that the regional network of birth points consists of 42 birth points, in particular 15 birth points of II level and 27 birth points of I level, divided by territorial scope in western Sicily (in which the Province of Trapani falls and, therefore, the island of Pantelleria), central Sicily and eastern Sicily. With regard to the provincial birth points networks, the Public Health Company of Trapani maintains 3 active birth points (Trapani, Castelvetrano and Marsala). It was noted that the number of parts carried out in the hospital in Pantelleria in 2009 was 54, and therefore far below the minimum limit of 500, possibility granted only on the basis of reasoned assessments related to the specific needs of the various geographical areas concerned with significant difficulties of activation of the assisted maternal transport service, so as not to meet the quality and safety criteria that the aforementioned interventions want to pursue, the Ministry of Health, in order to enhance the response to the health problems of the disadvantaged areas and in particular of the smaller islands, has, after agreement of 20 April 2011 with the State-Regions Conference, to formalize the proposal for resolution CIPE which, in the context of the allocation of the resources bound to the achievement of the objectives of the National Health Plan for the year 2011, provides for a provision of 20 million euros for the realization of an interregional project on the optimization of health assistance in the small islands and in other places characterized by exceptional difficulty of access. At its meeting on 20 January 2012, CIPE approved the allocation of captive resources for 2011. With regard to the elaboration of the interregional project, a proposal containing the guidelines that was sent by the Minister of Health to the Coordination of the Health Commission of the Regions for the sharing of the approval process was prepared; moreover, in order to give impetus to the implementation process of the projects in question, several meetings were held, promoted by the Ministry of Health, with the contacts of the three leading Regions (Veneto, Tuscany and Sicily). At the end of the above-mentioned iter, the Department of Health of the Region of Sicily will be able, with its own project that uses the resources assigned to this purpose, to put in place concrete initiatives aimed at guaranteeing women resident on the island of Pantelleria to give birth in safety and in conditions of optimal assistance. In this regard, the prefectures of Palermo and Trapani indicated that the new interregional plan for the smaller islands was drawn up by the Sicilian Region jointly with the Tuscan and Veneto Regions, and submitted to the Regional Health Commission with a favourable outcome for forwarding to the State-Regions Conference. Meanwhile, the Public Health Company of Trapani, in order to ensure adequate maternal-infantal health care for women birthing in Pantelleria, has activated a specific operational protocol to ensure the presence on the island of an obstetrician, a gynecologist and a pediatrician, as well as an anesthetist, sufficient to ensure the carrying out of emergency-emergency interventions (urgent and indifferent caesarean cutting), the monitoring of pregnancy, as well as the assisted accompaniment of the pregnant woman, from the thirty-second week of gestation, at the birth points of Trapani or Marsala. The same company has obtained from the Regional Department of Health the active service of 12 o'clock of eliambulance of the Service 118, for urgent interventions as a result of health emergencies of cardiological, traumatic-orthopaedic, obstetric-gynecologico and neurosurgery, that need immediate transfer, as well as in case of unplanned and/or urgent delivery and with possible risk for the unborn. Moreover, in the face of the initiatives of popular mobilization, the Regional Department of Health has allowed the maintenance of the birth point in Pantelleria, where all the parents can therefore be assisted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u12	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr Secretary, I would like to thank you for the kindness you have shown in your cooperation before this sitting. I believe that the answer has focused precisely on the problem that we wanted to raise with our question. As far as we are concerned, the answer is not satisfactory at all. It is true that the presence of an obstetrician, a gynecologist, a pediatrician and also an anesthesiologist has been guaranteed on the island of Pantelleria. It is also true, however, that today on the island the birth rate is really low and I believe it stands at around 30%. Therefore, the objective that had set itself both in the so-called Balduzzi decree that in all the successive solutions proposed by the Region of Sicily does not center the fundamental point, that is to give a mother and a father the right to give birth to their children in the place where they decided to live. What has been said for Pantelleria is true for other realities such as La Maddalena, Procida and other remote locations. We cannot separate the need to reduce health costs - which must certainly be pursued - and to reorganize from the consideration of the human factor. In your reply, you say that from the 32nd week of gestation it is guaranteed to move to the birth points of Trapani or Marsala, but as I said at the processing stage of my question, the problem arises in the next eight weeks that lead to birth. During these two months, family members face considerable costs, regardless of what a woman has to face from a psychological point of view, having to give birth in a reality far from her own. We must consider, Mr Undersecretary - he will certainly understand the expression - that the Panthesks call Sicily land. By this I want to emphasize how far that area really is. Another critical issue of his answer concerns the Service of 118, which is actually active for 12 hours with eliambulance, but it must be borne in mind that in areas where mother nature has shown that she can put so much beauty, the same is expressed with so much force and therefore often the helicopter cannot operate because there are no conditions to get in flight. However, the helicopter could easily arrive from Trapani or Palermo to make the connection. The annual expenditure for this service is about 1.8 million, which could be rationalised and invested for a staff that should always remain in place to ensure natural childbirth. Even what you pointed out about the decree about the need to reach a percentage of C-sections that is reduced to a minimum is not at all centered. I don't give you the exact data because I don't have it, but take it as a good one. I believe that the ASP in Trapani is around a percentage of cesarean cuts of 42%, well beyond the national figure (I do not know, however, at European and world level how it is shown). Mr Secretary, I would therefore ask you once again to review, with our constructive cooperation, the problems which persist and which I assure you today, the citizens of these areas live daily. It is my responsibility, yours and also the President's to try to find the forms and measures to intervene immediately. I would not like to see all the rationalization measures behind them, alas, interventions aimed at guaranteeing only jobs and a business linked to the C-sections.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u13	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u14	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-144.ana.u15	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 3 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.25 a.m.
