ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be asked three thousand41 on the criteria for granting the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Extraordinary to undertakings in competition proceedings. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u4	Madam President, the questioners draw attention to the modalities introduced by the Ministerial Decree of 4 December 2012, which identified the objective parameters for the evaluation and authorisation of requests for extraordinary treatment of wage integration in cases of insolvency proceedings. As recalled by the same interrogators, the decree, recorded at the Court of Auditors last 10 January and published in the Official Gazette n. 28 of 2 February 2013, was issued in implementation of article 3, paragraph 1, of law n. 223 of 23 July 1991, as last reworded by decree-law n. 83 of 2012, so-called growth decree. The parameters defined by the decree in question relate, therefore, to the claims of Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Extraordinary presented, after the date of publication of the measure in the Official Journal, which coincides with the date of purchase of the effectiveness, by the receiver, by the commissioner of liquidation or by the commissioner extraordinary, in the cases of declaration of bankruptcy, of the enactment of the order of compulsory administrative liquidation and of submission to the extraordinary administration of the company concerned. In such cases, the insolvency administrator, the liquidation commissioner or the special commissioner must present a plan which reveals both the existence of prospects for continuation or resumption of business activity (within the meaning of Article 2) and actions aimed at safeguarding, even partially, employment levels (within the meaning of Article 3). With regard to the concerns expressed by the honourable Members, it should be made clear that the objective parameters, as set out in Articles 2 and 3 of the Ministerial Decree, must be present jointly, i.e. that at least one of the requirements laid down in Article 2 and at least one of those laid down in Article 3 must be met. Having specified this aspect, I can therefore confirm the utmost attention from the competent structures of the Ministry that I represent during the investigation of the applications submitted, in order to protect all situations that meet these requirements. To confirm this I would like to communicate that the investigation referred just to the case evidenced by the interrogators - that is that relative to the company Officine Rizzoli Orthopedia Company for shares, declared bankrupt with sentence of 24 January 2013 and whose application has been perfected with the sending of the ulterior documentation only in the month of last April - has ended with positive outcome and is therefore imminent the adoption of the relative decree of authorization.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u7	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Dell'Aringa for his reply. Our concerns, which were identified by way of example in the specific case referred to by the Undersecretary, were actually resolved during the investigation. That is reassuring. That is why I take note of the Secretary's reply that the assessments which are being carried out in the course of the investigation of the individual proceedings are precisely careful and aimed at identifying all possible opportunities for continuity that emerge during the management of insolvency proceedings or insolvency proceedings. The theme, in fact, is that of ensuring consistency with the basic objectives of these two rules: the safeguarding of employment and also the safeguarding of production. The law n. 223 of 1991 and the decree-law n. 83 of 2012 (decree growth). The articulation of the criteria contained in the implementing decree, although necessary to guarantee the use of the instrument of the extraordinary cash only for the situations that actually repent in the process some effective possibility of continuity, obviously in a phase of serious crisis represent particular criticalities and must be treated with particular attention. In fact, it is quite clear - and, in our opinion, the implementing decree would require some additional element of clarification, simply through a circular of application - that often emerge an opportunity of continuity precisely in the management of the commissioner phases during the process of management. In other words, conditions of possible existence of new opportunities for work or continuity of the productive activity not present at the beginning of the exercise of the activity of extraordinary administration may emerge during the course of the activity, however it is necessary a time for this to happen. And during this time, it is also necessary to guarantee the coverage of the means for workers and therefore their safeguard with the instrument of the extraordinary cash that, at the same time, is safeguard of the continuity of enterprise. Our concern was that the requirements laid down in Articles 2 and 3 of the Ministerial Decree should be co-existence, which may not be present at the same time at the beginning of a path of administration or extraordinary administration. Now, if this attention - actually demonstrated in the concrete case of the Officine Rizzoli cited here, which even at the beginning of the procedure did not see the requirements of Articles 2 and 3 at the same time - has been taken into account in the management of the procedure for granting the extraordinary cash, this concrete attention should be proceduralized and therefore possibly included not in a regulatory document but simply in a circular. Moreover, a few days ago the Assembly approved the bill on the liquidation of the debts of the public administration to which the House gave the definitive green light: this is a very important step, which we hope is only the first. In this regard, I recall that the case of the Officine orthopediche Rizzoli is a case of bankruptcy for claims against the public administration. I therefore hope, once again, that special attention and conditions for facilitating this issue will be ensured.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u8	2-00003, with abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Regulation, on resources in favour of the Tuscan territories affected by bad weather in November 2012. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure, the aforementioned questioning can be carried out for no more than ten minutes and that after the Government's statements a reply is allowed for no more than five minutes. I call Senator Filippi to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u9	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 March 2013, as the President recalled in accordance with Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, an abbreviated interpretation was presented, accompanied by the signatures provided for. The object of the questioning, which briefly recall, concerned the intense clouds that occurred in November last year (specifically, in the days from 10 to 13 November 2012 and in the days 27 and 28 November 2012) that involved significantly the Tuscany Region, involving 139 municipalities identified in the Provinces of Arezzo, Grosseto, Lucca, Massa Carrara, Pisa, Pistoia and Siena. The damage estimated as a result of intense storms was estimated at around 360 million euros in terms of infrastructure and public works and 112 million euros in terms of private citizens and businesses, amounting to just under 500 million euros (472, to be precise). The President of the Tuscany Region, with own decree 13 November 2012, n. 196, has declared the state of regional emergency, absolutely evident, and in order to allow the implementation of the urgent and inseparable interventions the Regional Council decided later, with own law, an appropriation of 100 million euros to rely on own budget, in addition to the 30 already allocated to rely on the regional special fund. With the subsequent decree of the President of the Regional Council was then approved, on the basis of these resources, the plan of urgent and indifferent interventions whose works, at the time of the presentation of the questioning, were more than 70% already started. On 11 December 2012, the Council of Ministers - and I come now to the questions of the merits of the questioning - recognized, in correspondence with these decrees, the state of emergency resulting from the flood events. In the specific case, 14 million euros were allocated for the realization of the first urgent interventions by the Civil Protection. In a significant way, then, with the law of stability 2013 (comma 548 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 228) it was established that the special fund was increased to the extent of 250 million euros for the year 2013 to be allocated to capital interventions in the Regions and the municipalities concerned by the alluvial events, which did not involve only the Tuscany Region. In the next Conference of the Regions of 7 February 2013 was approved the distribution of 250 million euros with which the fund was increased, allocating 110.9 million euros to the Tuscany Region. The reason why the questioning was presented, in an urgent procedure, was then born of a fact that appeared quite incomprehensible: despite the fact that the departure had already been defined on February 7, 2013, after more than 40 days the decree had not yet been signed by the President of the Council of Ministers. A first effectiveness of the questioning was certainly represented by the fact that the day after his presentation the President of the Council of Ministers signed the decree. The reason why this act remains certainly still topical - and I thank the current Government for the sensitivity and attention it has wanted to show in this regard - is that to date no resource has been transferred in the actual availability of the Tuscany Region. As I think you know, the President of the Region has been suspended for months the mandate allowance, more than in protest, for solidarity with the populations involved and affected by the clouds. The topicality of this questioning lies precisely in the fact that it has clear and definitive words from the Government regarding the actual transfer of the sums in order to compensate for the interventions carried out, albeit to a very small extent with respect to the extent of the damages suffered. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u10	Madam President, I would like to thank Senator Filippi, who reminded us of this very carefully. Therefore, I do not repeat what he has just described, which corresponds to the reality of the facts. The corresponding budget chapter has been supplemented, as was mentioned. The delay in transferring resources to the Council Presidency in relation to the timetable laid down by the law is mainly due to the fact that, with regard to 2012, the management plan for the expenditure chapter 7446, concerning the transfers we are discussing today, had been found to be residual liabilities for around 281 million euros, which came from the financial year 2012. It was therefore necessary to provide, with the cash allocation foreseen for 2013, for the payment of the residues resulting from the previous year, with the relative sum, to grant the first instalment of transfers to the Presidency of the Council and, to a very limited extent, a share of the second instalment. In order to realize the entire payment due for 2013, both for the part that concerns the capital participations of the Tuscan Regions and Umbria, and for the part that always concerns participations in capital account of other Regions, a scheme of decree of compensatory variation has been prepared, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 12, of decree-law 6 July 2012, n. 95, converted with modifications from law 7 August 2012, n. 135. The aforementioned decree of compensatory variation is in progress and in the next few days it will be to the signature of the Minister of the economy and the finances; therefore, the transfer to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of the remaining quota of the second trimester and, in compliance with the timetable previewed from the law, of the ulterior quarterly ones referable to the aforementioned authorization of expenditure, referred to article 1, paragraph 290 and paragraph 548, of the law of stability 2013. I can therefore confirm that, within a few days (I hope by next week), the decree of compensatory variation will be signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u13	FILIPPI (PD). Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the Government once again, and specifically Vice Minister Fassina for the sensitivity and attention shown, and of course for the good news provided, if it is true that within a few days resources will be allocated, precisely in terms of actual availability, to the Tuscany Region. The occasion allows me to express a concern not so much for the substances of the President of the Tuscany Region from the point of view of the suspension of own allowances (in fact we appreciated the gesture of solidarity and anything else), but for the necessary times. The decree-law on emergencies, which is obviously much larger in size, is currently being examined in this House, both from the territorial point of view and from the populations involved, and finally from the resources allocated in more significant terms. If the actual allocation of resources were to be delayed, we are not least concerned, also because of the hearing we have held with the Presidents of the Regions, who are then in fact all extraordinary Commissioners for the Government due to the circumstances of the emergencies decreed. In particular, I point out the question of Eagle, where objectively the conditions also environmental and climatic allow a job only temporarily defined, for a few months, during the year, because obviously the work cannot continue during the winter because of the climatic conditions. Of course, I feel somewhat like recommending special attention to the Government as regards its own decree from the point of view of the actual availability of resources. Finally, but surely this will not have escaped the attention of the representatives of the Government, continuous television services with shots and interventions of the populations involved, as regards the earthquake of Abruzzo rather than that of Emilia. Unfortunately the lack of resources actually available on those territories is determining situations of particular criticality, also for the institutional representations present on those territories. However, I am absolutely satisfied with the answers given by the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u14	Following is the question 3-00066 on the death of a young Italian prisoner in the prison of Grasse in France. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u15	Madam President, Mr Claudio Faraldi, whose sad story we have today unfortunately to comment on, as the honourable Members have pointed out, whom I thank, was detained in the prison in Grasse since August 2012 following a sentence of five years imprisonment for aggravated theft. As soon as he received the tragic news of his death, the consulate general in Nice and the embassy in Paris immediately took action to obtain detailed information on the incident and to provide Mr Faraldi's family with all the necessary assistance. Moreover, on 11 May the embassy in Paris contacted the "crisis cell" of the Attorney General of Grasse, pointing out the utmost attention with which the case was followed by the Italian authorities. At the same time, on instructions from the Farnesina, our embassy informed the Quai d'Orsay and sent letters to the diplomatic adviser of the Minister of Justice and to the same prosecutor of the Republic of Grasse, to raise awareness of the need to ensure that full light was shed on the matter. Thanks also to the interventions of the embassy and the consulate general in Nice on the French authorities, both at the central and local level, on 14 May Mr Faraldi's family were allowed to see the body of their joint before the autopsy was carried out and stated that they had not noticed any apparent signs of violence on the boy's body. The first results of the autopsy examination carried out on May 16 by a college of two "legal doctors" (without the participation of external experts, because it is not provided for by French legislation) did not show the presence of suspicious elements or traces of physical violence and the cause of death of our compatriot would be due to pulmonary oedema. At the end of the exams, the body was returned to the family who was able to proceed with the burial of the body, which took place in Nice on 23 May. The Faraldi family, who could then see the boy's body before and after the autopsy, was later received by the prosecutor of the Republic of Grasse, Michel Cailliau. In a long conversation, he assured them the greatest attention of the French authorities on the case and the will to shed full light on the causes of the death of our fellow countryman. Further toxicological tests are being carried out at laboratories specialised in the Rhône-Alpes department to determine whether there has been an abuse of medicinal products. The contacts between the embassy and the Consulate General and all the French authorities under various titles were continued in order to call for maximum transparency and cooperation in ensuring that Mr Faraldi's death could be held responsible. It was a very intense activity, as intense remains, on the part of the Farnesina, the attention to all cases of Italians who are in various titles imprisoned in prisons abroad. As Minister Bonino pointed out during her programme hearing on 15 May, Farnesina closely follows all these cases, of course respecting the powers of other institutions. I would therefore like to reassure the honourable Members that even in the case of Mr Faraldi's tragic death, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our embassy in Paris and our consulate general in Nice continue and will continue to work with the utmost effort to ensure that full light is shed on the tragic events that have taken place.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u18	GRANAIOLA (PD). Madam President, I thank the Undersecretary and I am partly satisfied with the matter of Claudio Faraldi. In the question, however, we also recalled the case of Daniele Franceschi who, alas, did not receive the same attention from the French authorities as the case of Claudio Faraldi. I would like to remind you that Daniele Franceschi died in the prison of Grasse, where he had been awaiting trial for six months, on 25 August 2010. To date, not only has no light been shed and we do not know what the truth is, but neither have the organs been returned to the mother. I believe that this is really unfair, as I think it is unfair that this mother, who is not in good economic condition, should be constantly asked for parcels from those who performed the autopsy. Not only that: I understand that the lawyer in Nice is not paid, so this woman must continue to suffer injustices of this kind. It seems important to me to stress that Farnesina is really getting busy, so much so that we have been received, together with lawyers and mother, by the Director General for Italians abroad. On that occasion we were told that by 31 May the results of a further investigation requested by the court would be filed to verify any liability on the part of the hospital, especially with regard to compliance with the protocols. It even seems that the analyses done to Daniele Franceschi have not been returned with due timeliness. To date, we do not know whether this assessment has been filed. I would therefore ask you, Mr Undersecretary, to urge Mr Farnesina to consider whether the French lawyer is transmitting this information to the Italian lawyers. I should also like to add that in cases such as this, or our prisoners abroad, it is necessary for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to somehow support the families of the injured parties who, in addition to their misfortune and suffering, face considerable costs. Believe me, a situation that has been going on for four years is really heavy. I therefore recommend that you take full care of the French authorities to ensure that the case of Daniele Franceschi is also brought to light.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u19	The national register of natural and legal persons operating with fluorinated gases is followed by the question 2,00011. I call Senator Zanettin to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u20	Madam President, this is a fairly simple matter. Confartigianato Veneto had indicated to me the necessity of an extension of the deadline for the registration in the national register of natural and legal persons operating with fluorinated gases, since serious sanctions were foreseen if the registration had not occurred. The trade associations were in fact in a situation of bureaucratic delay in preparing such registrations. The questioning required an extension of the time limits, which I believe has been granted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u21	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u22	Madam President, as indicated in the question 2,00011, presented by Senator Zanettin, requesting an extension of the time limits for registration in the national register of persons and undertakings operating with fluorinated gases, referred to in Article 13 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 43 of 2012, is represented as follows: the concern expressed by Senator Zanettin in the act of inspection in question was also the subject of particular attention by the Ministry of the Environment which, having taken note of the difficulties expressed by the individual chambers of commerce and by Unioncamere for the high number of applications submitted for registration in the register in question, considered also the concerns expressed by the associations involved, with the directorial decree of 12 April last, deferred the start of operation of the register for a further sixty days, thus allowing all the parties involved to register without incurring in the sanctions referred to in Legislative Decree n. 26 of 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u25	ZANETTIN (PdL). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply and for the prompt participation of the Government in the request to postpone the deadline for entry into this special register. Well the government has done to accept the request of the trade associations. The opportunity is useful to me to remember that this is only a small signal of attention to the categories of craftsmen and small and medium-sized enterprises, categories that in general seem to have been removed from the policy agenda in our country. It is well known that small businesses and crafts firms are struggling in Italy, which are the real backbone of our economic system. Today they are crushed by too many taxes, credit crunch, labour costs and energy costs far higher than competitors. But at the moment it seems that politics - alas - is not able to find adequate answers to these problems because they lack the resources. The recommendation that I would like to make to the Government on this occasion is to avoid, at least, the cost of bureaucracy for small and medium-sized enterprises: we avoid taking over unnecessary obligations, improper burdens, inscriptions to fanciful registers, obligation to keep new books; we allow the remaining energies to focus on improving the product, on the search for new markets, on the innovation of production processes and, in general, we ensure that there are less paperwork. Perhaps in this way we will really help them and also some hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u26	Following is the question 3-00019 on the system for monitoring the traceability of waste (Sistri). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u27	Madam President, with regard to the subject raised by the honourable Member, it is as follows: The start date of the Sistri, initially set for October 1, 2010, was suspended by the legislator last with Article 52 of Decree-Law No 83 of 22 June 2012 with urgent measures for the growth of the Country (converted with amendments in the law of 7 August 2012, n. 134), in order to proceed to the additional administrative and functional checks of the system of control of the traceability of the waste. In particular, the administration has started investigations on: validity and effectiveness of the contract concluded with Selex Sema for the realization of the project; compliance of the ICT system (compliance with the contract and the norms of the performances rendered); reference legislation with comparisons with the associations of category. With regard to point (a), it should be noted that an opinion was requested from the General Court of the State, which, on 26 September 2012, expressed itself positively on these aspects. In particular, the Vetting excluded the existence of conditions for termination of the contract and considered the agreed prices to be appropriate. Furthermore, on 6 July 2012, the Authority for the Supervision of Public Contracts for Works, Services and Supplies initiated a procedure which has not yet been completed. As regards point (b), the verification activities were assigned to the competence of the Agency for Digital Italy and governed by Ministerial Decree of 18 May 2012, No 107. In its report of 13 February last, the Authority referred to above considered it desirable to reboot the system, representing that the continuation of interoperability causes a progressive misalignment of the information contained in the system with respect to the represented reality, which continues to evolve, making more and more the effort necessary for the restoration of the operability of the system. In addition, the above-mentioned Agency stressed the need for a gradual re-launch of the system, with a first phase of operation - restricted to a small portion of users - aimed at verifying the behaviour under real conditions of use and consolidating the procedures for the provision of services and diagnostic and monitoring tools, necessary to keep the system under control in the phase of full operation. Finally, with regard to point (c), it is represented that, following the verifications arranged by the legislator, on the basis of the indications formulated by the aforementioned Agency and the comparisons had with Confindustria and with the other associations of category, also with the Guarantor for micro, small and medium enterprises, with decree of the Ministry of the environment of 20 March 2013 the terms of entry into operation of the Sistri have been redefined. In particular, the measure has identified different starting methods according to categories of users (size of the company and typical nature of waste managed). The article 1, paragraph 1, of the ministerial decree 20 March 2013 fixes to the 1st October the initial operation of the Sistri for the initial producers of special hazardous waste with more than ten employees and for the entities and the enterprises that manage hazardous special waste, identified to article 3, paragraph 1, letters c), d), e), f), g), h), of the decree of this Ministry n. 52 of 18 February 2011, and its modifications and integrations, while paragraph 2 sets to 3 March 2014 the initial term of operation for the other institutions or enterprises obliged to the registration to the Sistri, giving faculty of use of the system on a voluntary basis from the term of operation indicated to paragraph 1. As provided for in the aforementioned decree, on 30 April last, the procedures for the realignment of the database data of companies already registered to the system were initiated. The departure of the Sistri has an experimental character, without, however, weakening the fundamental role of waste traceability in combating illegality and all forms of eco-mafia. The start in October is an element of protection of the administration; then, from October to March, it will be necessary to verify the functioning of the system and, on the basis of this, reserve the possibility to extend or not the audience of the subjects, articulate it and modify it. Therefore, it is considered to be necessary to exclude the possibility of a further postponement, subject to the final abandonment of the project, in the face of a jump in the dark. In this sense, the Ministry has started a comparison with all economic organizations, in order to share with them the path and acquire all the necessary elements and information. At the same time, the Chairman of the Supervisory and Monitoring Committee of the Sistri was asked to update the status of the monitoring and control activities as well as the state of implementation of the project to date.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u30	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply. I come now from the European Union's Political Commission, where it has been found that Italy is the country that is most late in transposing Community directives or regulations. The Sistri is a negative example of how a national law has transposed a Community directive: we have taken a longer step than the leg. I quote Minister Zanonato, who, in front of the Joint Chamber and Senate Commissions said: "An emblematic case of unjustified increase (...) for operators is certainly the Sistri. By extending the traceability of hazardous waste even to different types and not dangerous, we were more realistic than the king. Our traceability system must be simplified, starting precisely from the scope of application, so that it does not represent an unjustified obstacle to entrepreneurial activity. For this reason, Mr Zanonato continues, together with Minister Orlando, we decided to review the current system and the possibility of introducing a more agile regime in line with European practices. I thank you, Mr Secretary, for your reply, but if we are talking about support for business and the revival of the economy, I believe that we must also give our business groups a certain degree of freedom of action; without exceeding the limits laid down, we must not create limits that we do not need to create. I would therefore ask you to review the content of this measure in order to remove what was not necessary, so that instead of talking about financial support for small businesses, which today have water in their throats, they may be given the freedom to operate and work. Crime is not combated by imposing a register of hazardous waste on the hairdresser who disposes of cut hair: these are not the ways to transpose Community regulations. If we see how neighbouring countries such as Austria and Germany have behaved, which are also part of the European Union and are affected by the same Community directives, we will note that they have transposed this directive much faster but also more simply. I would ask you to reconsider this measure, Mr Secretary, taking up the words of Minister Zanonato: let us move the terms a little bit, let us try to lengthen this transitional phase a little, if we want to break in, and at this stage let us amend the legislation so that it can be implemented. Thank you for that, which I hope will be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u31	Following is the questioning 2-00001 on the cooperative "Coopsette". I call Senator Giovanardi to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u32	Madam President, I believe that I will use all the time at my disposal, because the question is about the cooperative 'Coopsette' but the problem is much wider and more complex. I start from the end: as I have said several times in this House, I am referring to the legislation in force which provides for the White List, applied for the first time in the earthquake zones of Emilia, Lombardy and Veneto, which, by worrying to combat the attempts of mafia infiltration, does so on circumstantial profiles, i.e. events hypothesized as possible also regardless of the actual criminal investigation of crimes, being sufficient that from the information acquired through the police bodies, an inditatory framework that is understood as a whole, but however plausible, is symptomatic of the danger of any link between the enterprise and organized crime, even on sociological bases. A diction of this kind, as you understand, is very difficult to apply, especially when, due to legal obligation, hundreds and hundreds of companies have to submit an application to the competent prefecture to be registered in the White List. 95 percent of the damage caused by the earthquake occurred in the province of Modena, so that prefecture was overwhelmed by hundreds of questions (to a lesser extent in Mantova and Ferrara, where the damage was less). Well, it has happened that some companies have received an anti-mafia ban, such as the Baraldi Brothers of San Prospero di Modena, one of the largest companies in the sector headed by seven brothers, orphans of a carabiniere, well known and esteemed. Moreover, this also involves an employment problem because hundreds of people are at risk, a problem we have talked about in this House and to focus on which yesterday an agenda was adopted in the Commission. Another company, Ge.Co. In Modena, he received the interdictative because he had the misfortune to have working relations with a Calabrian transport company, which had regular anti-mafia certification, because police information showed that the owners of that company had relatives in Crotone who in turn had contact with a relative who was in a suspicious association or business. Then they asked the prefecture of Modena to remove the interdictative, but this did not, while the prefect of Mantua - where, luckily, they had another seat - in question with that of Modena, took it away from him, also because they had said, in essence: Excuse me, we have contact with a company that presents itself with an anti-mafia certification: what should we do? How do we know if the owner then has a relative who works in another company with others? I open and close here a parenthesis because I am not a Legist, but a Modena and I love those of the South: talking to some journalists of the South, precisely to Vibo Valentia (where my name had come out for a terrifying dazzle, in which I had absolutely nothing to do with it and I have already corrected in the newspapers), I said that today, with this legislation, to the North to speak with a Sicilian, a Calabrian or a Campanian - as far as an entrepreneur or even a politician - is at risk. And not for the person with whom you talk, but because, if from these police indications it emerges that the person with whom you have spoken has connections with another, you get directly involved and you end up in the newspapers, where you will say that, somehow, you have come into contact and, if you own a business, you risk an interdictment. For this reason, on that agenda accepted by the Government, we have written that it is necessary that at least the elements through which one gets to interdict are convergent, concrete and unique and that they are the same that are used to dissolve a City Council. And it is necessary for this company, once hit, to overcome what is happening today, for which it suffers the cessation of payments, can no longer enter into contracts or work and risks to fail, and there is instead, in agreement between the prefect and the property, a police station, so that there is someone who can manage it, while it occurs whether this danger is real or not. And it needs to be reinstated when the risk is lost. Why did I make this hat? While, as the legislation provides, it is enough the suspect induced to trigger this prediction, then we read in the Modena newspapers - which I quote - that the Coopsette (Florence) have been kidnapped the yards of the TAV for association to criminals, fraud, corruption, illicit trafficking of waste, fraud in public supplies, etc. Keep in mind that - as I said before - there is no need for a crime for the interdictment, but a sociological analysis is enough also of contiguity or family relation. Here, instead, all these crimes have been committed, of which were accused, among others, the leaders of the cooperative in speech, which, as the Gazzetta di Modena writes, is managing in the low Modena a whole series of contracts, such as the temporary housing modules in San Felice and Cavezzo and San Prospero (respectively for amounts of 7.5 and 3.3 million euros). Also according to the report from...The Rest of the Carlino, the transport of waste, after a round of inflated contracts and black funds, was even managed by a company, the Veca Sud, closely linked to the Casalesi chamorristic clan and to the Caturano family. So, I don't want to accuse Coopsette, because if I go to talk to the prefect, he would answer me that, having hundreds of questions, before they are all examined, there will surely be the one that is seen before and the one that is seen after. Then, in order to trigger such measures, in absolute discretion, if there are elements of this type (the crime, the kidnappings and the aforementioned links), are sufficient to trigger the interdictative or rather not triggered? Or does it click depending on the prefect or the GIRER? The GIRER is that police agency that sends these reports. Me and my fellow Senator Vaccari, who is Modena, twenty days ago we read on the "Gazzetta di Modena" that such Incognito Cone, who would be the head of the GIRER, gave an interview in which he said that 30 percent of the materials of the earthquake of the low Modena was contaminated by 'ndrangheta, camorra and mafia. 30%, I stress that. Of course, it did not bring any precise elements (who, where, when), so I asked the Senate to come to the Commission to reply: Excuse me, Mr. Incognito, you say these things, but what intimidation has been done? What was burned? What capitals have been moved? What business do you have on the board of directors who? What are we talking about? If in fact we are talking about pollution of a third of the low Modena, we want to know what the judiciary does, how many warranty notices it has sent and how many arrests it has made. Or are we talking about sociology? Because, if so, we are talking about everything and nothing, but we are talking about interventions that - since we have already had the earthquake on the territory - could constitute another, leaving hundreds of workers at home. It is clear then that there is one problem that overlaps with another. In fact, when this company renews the entire board of directors, including the president, dismisses the person who, having worked in one place or another, would be the link, causes the owner to surrender the shares, then goes to the prefecture and says: What should we do more than this? You tell us, Prefect, what we have to do to keep working. Let us return - I say this to the Undersecretary - to a surreal situation, because it is said: in Genoa, four years ago, the Finance Guard made seizures of yards. Therefore, there is an ongoing investigation, which is now over with preliminary investigations; there is still no referral to trial. However, the Baraldi company is involved with eight others, including the CCC, which, as you know, is a co-operative giant in Bologna. Then I wonder: if Baraldi had the interdictment because it was involved, why didn't the CCC have it? We are in a surreal situation that needs to be clarified. In Italy there is a Constitution that respects the rights of citizens and businesses and there is a judiciary that intervenes. I come back to this: here we are in the context of the probability or possibility that there is an attempt at infiltration that we want to fight: not an infiltration, but an attempt. I have allowed myself to say - I repeat here - that I would not want the fight against the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra, which is sacrosanct, to become a favor done to 'ndrangheta, the camorra and organized crime [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] , when it comes to killing healthy companies in the North that have no implication, they are known and on which the City Council of Mirandola, the institutions and the unions (there is a great mobilization to safeguard this heritage). But is this the way to fight the Mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta? Is that what this is? And when these companies fail, isn't it that someone will come and take their place? These are questions I ask myself. If you're afraid that I'm gonna catch the flu in December and become pneumonia, I know that if you kill me in September, I won't run the risk of taking pneumonia. You can't say, if there's danger in a business, we're gonna make it fail. It is said that he will then claim compensation for damages. Mr Undersecretary, I also note that the mechanism is so twisted that when one has the interdicttive - which can happen to everyone - and goes to ask for its reasons in the prefecture, they do not tell him why there is the cover of secret instruction. But I have to resort to the TAR! I know: when you resort to the TAR, then we will give the TAR the elements on the basis of which we issued the interdictment. But if you accuse me of something and give me the interdictment, then you don't tell me the reasons why you gave it to me? Is it possible that in a constitutional system, in a rule of law, we can behave in this way? I asked for the Coopsette, because I was impressed that all the newspapers spoke of crimes, kidnappings and infiltrations, with names and surnames of the company that were infiltrated in Florence, and that it works in the low Modena. I wondered, why didn't you have the interdictment? What are the criteria? I do not want to accuse anyone, on the contrary: I want to emphasize with this questioning the necessity - I think the Government is doing so in a decree-law - to fix stakes that do not put at the head of a single person - that is, a prefect - the right of life and death with respect to events involving hundreds of people and workers, in a procedure that is totally opaque and that has no judicial guarantee. I repeat: no judicial guarantee. Everything is based on judicial police reports, which, as my colleagues in the South know, too many times - so I would not want it to be exported even to the North - are built on rumors, hearsay, family relationships or having been seen at the bar. It is not that on these things you can build a story that - then - has repercussions on the territory that can be devastating. With this interrogation I would like to understand, through this specific fact and this judicial affair (this real, occurred in Florence), the reasons why we intervened or did not intervene; because we intervened in one case and not in the other; what is the overall logic that presides over this novelty. Because - I repeat - it is the first experience on the Modena territory of a White List in which all those who want to work in that area must be registered. Therefore, I ask the Government to respond in a spirit of total cooperation, to see that these instruments are refined on the ground. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u33	Madam President, it seems to me that the explanation of the questioning concerned the more general problem and not specifically the question it contains, namely the question of the Coopsette cooperative. At the general level, I can say that the Government is studying rules to prevent companies from being put in a position of interoperability during the verification phase, resulting in a negative impact on corporate structure and employment levels, as well as, of course, on turnovers and business prospects in the relevant markets by the companies themselves. As far as the specific issue is concerned, from the data sent to us by the offices, the investigations have not yet been completed, so nothing can be said about the specific questions raised in the questioning. However, we feel that we can ensure that state bodies act in accordance with the principles of impartiality, transparency and non-discrimination. From the tone of the questioning there are no questions about the procedural articulation, i.e. whether a chronological is respected and whether the activity is intended to assess the existence of the conditions so that it can remain that company in the White List rather than be qualified according to the principles dictated by the anti-mafia code, which has undergone recent innovations through the publication of book II in February 2013. Therefore, on these issues I have no point in referring to the questioner. I can only say, in relation to the issues raised, that the activities of the bodies responsible are not yet completed and I also announce an assessment of a purely political nature. It is noted that the time needed to carry out all the activities aimed at making a reasoned judgment could be particularly long, so as to put at risk the effectiveness claimed in the definition of the rules and announced with the purposes of law. Since this Government confirms its willingness to strengthen the instruments aimed at combating illegal phenomena and combating mafias, in the knowledge that the implementation of large public works is a sector particularly exposed to the infiltrations of the criminal economy to the detriment of the legal economy, I repeat that regulations are being studied to strengthen the effectiveness of the law enforcement action, but also to speed up the procedures and the same more monitorable, more transparent and more certain, to guarantee the general interests that must be protected. In particular of the companies that are subject to interdictment, I repeat that it is being studied and presented a legislative instrument aimed at ensuring the continuity of the company but, at the same time, to offer to the bodies not only of investigation but also of judiciary all the elements so that the actions of law enforcement can be exercised as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u36	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Madam President, I would like to thank the Government for the answer it has given me, but it confirms all my concerns. As you can see, in practice the prefecture receives hundreds of questions and on the one hand there is a company that continues to work quietly, with crimes of this gravity and not with danger, but with the judiciary that has established links with organized crime, because - rightly says the Government - until they are able to carry out investigations on the danger continues to work; on the other hand, there is a company instead, that may have been viewed first and that has no crime and is not involved in any situation of this gravity except that to which I have mentioned before, that in the meantime has already renewed all its organs and sold the shares, that must have from the Region 2 million euros and does not get them because the Region maintains that as long as there is the ban does not pay nor can conclude new contracts. Well, Madam President, we will agree that we are in a surreal situation. Put yourself in the shoes of one of the biggest companies that we are talking about - you saw her at work immediately after the earthquake because they were the first to rush everywhere even voluntarily to remove the rubble and help people (it's 400-500 employees) - risk failing. It has already suffered a damage of 100 million euros. All this while the other companies continue to work and read in the newspapers that they have been seized and have been indicted for serious crimes and so on. And the Government's response can only be and is: unfortunately, until the instruments are refined, we cannot do otherwise. So I am absolutely grateful that it has been noted that the situation is unsustainable. The state and prefectures must be friends with the citizens. I, who am a citizen of Modena in the State and in the Prefecture, must see someone who protects me and helps me, not someone who, after having suffered an earthquake, intervenes to multiply the damage through initiatives that, instead of favouring the territory, honesty and transparency and combating crime, make the situation worse. Moreover, if the offices had connected them, it would appear that I have also submitted another question on the matter, in which I ask: how many men have you sent to the prefecture of Modena? When are the people who have to look at these hundreds of questions? When will you finish examining these questions? And this "supercop" of the GIRER who gives interviews in what capacity does he speak? And why are you giving interviews? Why are you talking to the press? And the things he said - a third of the low Modena is polluted - what is their match? Is it alarmism or is it true? And if it's true, why aren't drastic, radical measures taken by the judiciary to stop these activities? I am satisfied with the answer because I believe that at a time when the government says that we have to intervene with a decree-law it shows the awareness that the problem is gigantic. It is not only the fight against organised crime, the prevention and the danger of infiltration, but also the possibility of facilitating healthy companies on the ground, so that they do not find themselves in the difficult situation so that once they fail their recovery becomes irremediable, with all the consequences for hundreds and hundreds of families.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u37	Following is the question 3-00027 on the closure of the branch office of the firefighters of Vignola (Modena). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Vaccari asks the Government for clarification on the possible closure of the detachment of firemen in Vignola, which is of strategic importance for the vastness of the territory of competence and the number of interventions made. The headquarters of Vignola is one of the mixed-type detachments indicated by the project "Aid Italy in 20 minutes" which constitutes the framework for the organization of the rescue device of the National Firefighters' Corps, according to European standards. The staff, of 12 firefighters and 4 team leaders, provided for by the agreement signed with the trade unions in 2008, was confirmed in the most recent hypothesis of revision of the organic plant of the various territorial headquarters, made known to the trade unions in October 2012. With this it is emphasized the circumstance that since its activation the Detachment of Vignola has guaranteed a good operativity, guaranteeing beyond 700 participations medium a year in the last five years; and therefore, also because of the activity developed and the service insured, do not exist at the moment reasons that induce to consider the hypothesis of closure. The concerns expressed in this regard also by the trade organisations do not therefore find any basis, not even with reference to the hypotheses of scaling down of the other organizational offices of mixed type present in the Region.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u41	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Bubbico for his reply, which certainly reassures our territory. The complaints that also publicly the unions at regional level had made about the danger that was glimpsed - despite the confirmations that the Deputy Minister gave us - of a possible revision of the rescue system in our Region that could have affected the detachment of Vignola had led me to present this act of inspection union. My intention, in fact, was to have certainties about the maintenance of this garrison of public assistance, which also carries out functions of civil protection: during the earthquake last year the detachment of Vignola was in fact involved on several occasions to guarantee on the territory, including the areas near the foothills, not only the services that are own but also help and support in the areas of the crater. I therefore believe that the answers given to us by the Deputy Minister can be considered an important guarantee in order to continue to maintain this garrison and the service that it guarantees, not only to the citizens of the territory of the Municipality of Vignola and the Province of Bologna but also to the users of the tollgates of Modena Sud, Modena Nord and Casalecchio.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u42	The following is the question 3-00046 on the admission of certain lists to the local elections of the Municipality of Alagna Lomellina (Pavia). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u43	Madam President, Senator Orellana asks to know what initiatives the Government intends to take with regard to the admission of lists linked to movements of fascist and national socialist inspiration that participated in the electoral consultations of 26 and 27 May, called for the renewal of the city council of Alagna Lomellina, in the Province of Pavia. In addition to candidates related to the current majority and minority council, two lists were presented, among others, related to extreme right movements, which were admitted to the electoral consultation and which, following the vote, did not express their own representatives in the municipal assembly. It should be noted that the assessment of the requirements for the eligibility of electoral lists for municipal elections is attributed to the surrounding electoral commissions, appointed by the President of the Court of Appeal. As you know, these are bodies on which the Ministry of the Interior does not have powers to intervene regarding decisions taken on the eligibility of lists and applications. This stems from the intuitive need for these committees to operate in complete autonomy, without a hierarchical link with the governing bodies. Coming now to the concrete case raised by Senator Orellana and other senators, precise that the lists referred to in the act of inspection union have already been presented and admitted in other municipalities during the previous local elections. The Council of State, in fact, in an opinion of 1994, concerning the presentation of signs bearing the symbol of the Roman beam, considered the same emblem to be legitimate, provided that the word "fascism" was not included in the symbol itself, as in the present case. It is also true, however, that in the administrative disputes promoted on the occasion of the presentation of the lists for the newly held electoral round, which concerned similar lists, the judges, both at first and at second instance, considered that the emblem of the beam and the acronym MFL (Movement Fascism and Freedom), present in the marks, constitute an explicit reference to the fascist ideology and to the dissolved fascist party. It should, however, be remembered here that these are statues whose decision-making nature has its effects exclusively in the context of the parties to the dispute. Of course, the contents of these recent pronouncements can be highlighted as part of the instructions that are usually given to the surrounding electoral commissions, to take them into account when assessing the eligibility requirements of the lists. Finally, I would like to point out that a number of criminal proceedings have been initiated against the associations to which the two lists are based, which have never been concluded by a conviction. I would also like to assure you that, in terms of the protection of public order and the prevention of illegal conduct, the attention of the public security authorities continues to be as high as possible, which, also thanks to the monitoring of the Internet, follow the initiatives linked to political extremism groups and movements, in order to ensure legality and counter all forms of intolerance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u46	Orellana (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Bubbico, but I should like to say straight away that I am dissatisfied with the answer he has given, and I will explain it quickly. Firstly, it is a question of method, because my question was put on 6 May last (just a month ago), well before the elections, and the answer arrived late, well beyond the elections of 26 and 27 May last. In addition, I consider it irrational for the Senate and this House that a similar question to the Chamber of Deputies on 14 May by the Best Member, and therefore subsequent to mine, was immediately satisfied by the Government on 16 May. The content of the content shall be repeated. I would also like to point out that, although it is true that the so-called CECs, that is, the surrounding electoral commissions, are to appoint the Court of Appeal, they are composed of four members and presided over by the prefect, and are therefore directly derived from the Ministry or from a delegate, who intervenes directly in these events. Among other things, in Alagna Lomellina this led to the resignation of one of the members of the Province. I am sorry to have to report this first. As regards the substance of the matter, there are many judgments of both the Council of State and the administrative courts which explicitly require that lists indicating the words "fascism" or "fascism" should not be allowed. As has already been pointed out by the Deputy Minister, the word "fascism" is clearly indicated in the name MFL. I have already mentioned in my question the decision of the Council of State of 6 March 2013, n. 1354, referring to the municipality of Montelapiano. This is quite a complex matter, but it has been resolved in the full objection of the MFL list. There is then a decision of the TAR of 7 May 2013, and then immediately after the submission of my question, and there is the decision of the Council of State of 11 March 2013 in Bergamo. All this expresses - in my opinion - the clear legislative indication that these lists should not be admitted to electoral competitions. I would therefore like to express my concern here about the possibility that in future the presentation of lists that are declared fascist, in the forthcoming local elections in particular, as in the case of Alagna Lomellina, in municipalities with less than a thousand inhabitants for which the legislation does not require the collection of signatures by citizens. In fact, this is the Trojan horse that uses these groups to enter the institutions, as they manage to present the list without having to collect signatures. Moreover, in small municipalities there is typically only one list (usually civic lists) and therefore the list of such groups would be the second; if there are only two, even with a single vote they can have an advisor or more than one, which gives them an institutional recognition that can then be spent in more important competitions, being able to authenticate signatures (the city councilman has powers) as well as disturb perhaps in particular in that municipality. Therefore, I would maintain the government's supervision of this mode, if necessary with legislative interventions, but I believe that the instruments - as I said before - are all there. Therefore, I urge the Ministry to inform and sensitive all prefectures about these regulations and judgments of the Council of State, so that it is very clear how to behave and that the phenomenon is not undervalued at all. These fascist regurgitations, even Nazis in the case of Alagna Lomellina, can in fact represent a real problem for Italy, as in other countries of Europe unfortunately is happening.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u47	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-37.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 11 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.22.
