ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 1 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 974, already approved by the House of Deputies. The speakers, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti and Senator Bernini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in introducing the debate on Decree-Law No 69, the so-called 'decree of doing', which we should convert into law today, I think it would be useful first of all to place it in the current phase of the Italian economy. It is an economy - it should be remembered - that has put in place in the last twelve to eighteen months a path of deep and intense adjustment in the matter of containment of the public deficit and primary surplus, as and better than many other European countries. The price, however, was high, with a fall in economic and productive activity and, above all, an increase in unemployment which had never occurred in the post-war period. There is no doubt that in this situation specific measures are needed in the near future to relaunch and stimulate the recovery of the economy, a recovery that could be expected from the end of this year or from the beginning of next year. These measures will obviously have to be accompanied by the continuation of the consolidation of public accounts, which must continue as it has begun. These measures are all the more urgent because they will prove essential precisely in order to try to engage this phase of expansion which all the forecasts lead to consider being consolidated with regard to the coming months. However, we must not assume that this recovery will also pass on to our economy; the opposite is true: it will depend fundamentally on what we are going to do in the coming months, and therefore on the economic policies that will be implemented. I believe that it is in this perspective that the discussion, and therefore the need for approval, of Decree-Law No 69 should be read at this point. There is no doubt that the decree in question presents a great heterogeneity and complexity of measures. There are a lot of areas in which it works: from procurement to taxation, from health to collection, from digitalisation to access to credit; important resources are unlocked for the sharing of infrastructure. However, I wanted to recall two general justifications which may serve to give some reason why the approval of the measure approved by the House is necessary and urgent. A first justification is as follows: if we are going to analyse the measures from within, it is possible to identify in many of them a stimulus action that will be able to exercise mainly on domestic demand, on consumption and investment, which - it should not be forgotten - have been falling sharply for more than two years. The decline in domestic demand in this last period has increasingly offset the positive contributions from exports; hence the recession that we are going through. Therefore, a first reason is given by the fact that the measures contained in the decree can be a positive contribution to the support of domestic demand. The second reason is also general: We must remember that, at the time when the end of the excessive deficit procedure was approved for Italy, at the time when we presented the Economic and Financial Document and the National Reform Programme, we were addressed by the Commission and then by the Ecofin of the recommendations above all of economic policy that we must take seriously, because the procedure of the European Semester provides at some point a comparison on what we will have or will not have done on this side. If we look then at the many areas of intervention that are enucleable in the decree, we can see that these respond in some way to some important recommendations that have been addressed to us; this underlines, in my opinion, a second reason of general order that can give rationality to the approval that we are planning to carry out today. I come specifically to the measures of the decree: as far as I am concerned, I will limit myself to measures which have a more indirect impact on the economic system, in particular those referred to in Title I and Chapter II of Title II, because the co-rapporteur, Senator Bernini, will focus on the other parts of the decree. As far as Title I is concerned, we know that a significant general measure is to simplify access to credit for small businesses through the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. In my report, I would like to focus on the improvements which we believe have been made to the text approved by the House of Deputies. There are in particular two important improvements: firstly, a reserve quota has been restored for the Fund's counter-guarantee measures in favour of the trusts. We know that they are very important in terms of the possibility of granting guarantees, especially for small businesses. The text under consideration has, in some way, restored the 30% reserve. At the same time, we have considered it appropriate to recomposition quotas within the Fund for investments which are above and below the threshold of EUR 500 000 in order to guarantee - as they say - space for companies which, although small, carry out investments whose order of measurement has some consistency, without, of course, jeopardising the possibilities of using resources for companies of smaller size. It has therefore been decided to retrain this quota, which had been set at around 80%, to 50%, so that the Fund is destined, for a 50% share, for investments exceeding the threshold of EUR 500 000, and for the remaining 50% for operations of a smaller size. A second improvement made by the Joint Committees on Constitutional Affairs and the Budget concerned investment by small businesses. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the text was about investment in machinery and therefore material investment. It is a fact that for several years a share of the investments of the enterprises concerns the so-called intangible goods: there are some countries in which even this share is higher than that of the investments in tangible goods. Therefore, the field of interventions has been extended also to investments in hardware and software and, above all, has been given the possibility to forecast investments in digital technologies. We consider this to be important, of course, because it is a first measure by which we begin to review a definition that begins to be dated with regard to business investment. In the field of liberalisation, another important issue dealt with by the Decree-Law before us, especially as regards the possibility of increasing competition in the natural gas and fuel market, some amendments were adopted which provide for a revision of the flat-rate deduction for the operators of fuel distribution plants. Then there was the issue of compensation for the directors and employees of the companies controlled by the public authorities, which has been very echoed outside; here something has been done that we believe is useful, from the point of view of general legislation. First of all, the existing regime on the roof has been restored to the salaries of public managers, who, as we know, had failed with the text of the House of Deputies. The 25% reduction was applied to managers of companies directly or indirectly controlled by public administrations, while for listed companies and those treated as such (which had remained outside of any reduction) a proposal for a reduction of equal amount was made for the approval of the shareholders' meeting, which of course remains sovereign. We consider it important what has been established: if the Senate had confirmed the standard approved by the House, the result - let's not forget - would have been the exceeding of the limit of 300,000 euros, provided for by the spending review, for many subsidiaries, as well as for many municipal companies. Another important improvement concerns the Italian digital agenda, another key point, in relation to which we have accumulated dramatic delays, if we want to use this term, compared to the rest of Europe. A number of measures have been approved in this area. I remember two in particular. First of all, because there is a serious gap, a wide distance between those who access these technologies and the rest - a large part - of the population and territories, which, on the other hand, this access is blocked or severely reduced, it has been established that the infrastructure is directed also and above all to facilitate access to the Internet in rural areas, as well as in large public collective spaces. This is a first step, because much work will have to be done on measures to ensure that so many of our fellow citizens can use these new means. However, we are behind not only from the point of view of infrastructure provision, but also because we use the infrastructure that we have at our disposal very little and badly. We must therefore take careful action to increase this capacity for use. A first step was to imagine, especially with regard to the use by the public administration of platforms and online purchasing solutions, the possibility of using open source products, which are therefore open sourced, which do not involve expense charges. I would also like to mention the interventions which, always in the field of digitisation, are aimed at facilitating the implementation of the electronic health file. In this respect, three important amendments were adopted, one of which was for the establishment of the patient's pharmaceutical dossier as a specific part of the electronic health file. An important chapter of the decree concerns infrastructure: from this point of view, there is the effort to make operational resources for more than 2 billion euros, broken down in the years 2013 to 2017. A number of important amendments have been adopted, including the extension of a number of measures already provided for in the safety standard to school buildings. We know how important this issue is. It has also been foreseen that, for the specific purpose of buying furniture and furniture for school use and childcare, the expenditure limit set at 20% of the average expenditure of the years 2010-2011 may be exceeded. Another rule to be pointed out, always in terms of infrastructure and procurement, is that it makes compulsory the payment, in favour of the contractor, of an advance of 10% of the contractual amount, provided that the same is already foreseen and advertised in the tender, eliminating the optionality of resorting to it for the administrations. Finally, I would like to mention the chapter on simplifications, particularly tax simplifications. We spoke first of all with an amendment on the introduction, deliberated by the House, of the so-called Single Document of Tax Regularity (DURT). The aims to which this measure had referred are not called into question, but it seemed to us that the ways in which they were pursued in the same way as the text which we had received would have turned them into an additional unbearable burden for many companies; this would have been in clear contradiction with the simplification mandate which these rules provided for. It was therefore decided to abolish the part concerning the DURT, referring to other provisions, in other areas. On the other hand, it is important to simplify, already present in the original text and which remains, which concerns the loss of the contractor's joint responsibility for the payment of VAT by the subcontractor. There is also responsibility for the payment of withholding tax on income from employees. With regard to the real estate of the municipalities, on which various provisions were laid down, the correction, or improvement, as we believe, has envisaged limiting the allocation of a share of the resources deriving from the sale of the real estate of the local authorities, equal to 10%, to the reduction of the public debt, except that an equal or greater percentage is not destined to the reduction of the debt of the same institution. I would like to highlight a number of speeches on the subject of universities and, above all, on law and access to study. Amendments have been adopted mainly for the support of university students who are capable and deserving and without resources. To this end, the Ministry of Education, University and Research will be able to launch mobility grants for these students, which are expected to allow mobility in regions other than those of their residence, while maintaining the possibility of intervention that was provided for the Regions. To sum up what has been said so far, I think we can say, at least looking at the whole of this work, that the work of the Commissions has been carried out in a constructive, active and loyal collaboration between the forces of the majority and has brought - I have listed some of the variations, but many others are then reported in the text - improvements, which we consider significant, to the formulation that had come to us from the House. I repeat, we are faced with a heterogeneous measure, full of references to different themes, but it is characterized by two general aims: to ensure support for demand and to highlight a capacity to start responding to the recommendations of the European Commission. In the name of these two general aims, as well as of course for the content of the measures that are included in this decree-law, I believe that we can hope for a rapid approval of the text that is currently being examined by the Assembly, so as to allow the House to convert definitively into the law of the decree-law within the current week. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u6	I call the rapporteur, Senator Bernini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer back to the conclusions of the report by Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, who was my co-rapporteur on the Commission's work and will still be so in this House for the further examination of the measure. Although all those who have spoken in the Commission's work have done so with a positive, effective and improved approach to the text, they have not been able to hide the fact of reality that has already been highlighted: it is certainly a varied, complex text, at significant times heterogeneous, which suffers from a necessity and urgency that arises from the crisis; a persistent crisis, a crisis that affects a large part of the business sectors that are in this text treated and - I would say - cared for with particular attention (through several instruments that I will then try to highlight, albeit in a playful, synthetic way), a crisis that invests common citizens who encounter difficulties, both individually and in associated form, in access to credit and in the management of savings. Basically, there are three instruments that have been used and that represent a bit the systemic distribution of the text; some of them have been foreseen by the Government, others by the Chamber, others introduced with significant improvements that have been made by the Commissions 1a and 5a gathered who have worked on the text, as Senator Guerrieri Paleotti recalled, in a short time but with profitable, determined and proactive commitment of all those who have spoken. Firstly, the measures that intervene on the promotion of growth, so above all on the guarantee of credit, on access to it, on the containment of the so-called credit crunch, therefore on the contraction of credit, which affects - we have said - first of all the enterprises but, in a significant and significant way, also the citizens (it is unfortunately an issue that comes from very far away that we carry behind us from the beginning of the crisis, that is, from the moment of the international precipitation of the effects, of the waste of the subprime loans). For this reason, in the initial part of the article, it is sought through the guarantee of credit, and in the central part, that it relates to simplifications, through a more tenuous, temperate attitude of the tax on the taxpayer (this is a very important battle that we all claim - we in particular - and that has been the subject of a resolution in the Chamber of Deputies at the Commission finances), to the citizen creditor, to modulate, to temper the demands of the financial administration on the basis of the real economic capacity and the real ability to honour its commitments towards the tax, in the light of the economic crisis. Moreover, a very important point of the measure in our opinion concerns the impignability of the first and only dwelling house and the degree of foreclosure of capital goods to a reasonable percentage in our opinion and in any case through the custody of the capital goods themselves to the same debtor, which in this way can continue its business activity. All these measures that represent (this has been said in recent days with the rapporteur Guerrieri Paleotti and with all those who participated in the improvement of the text in the Commission) a red thread in the enrichment of the content of the measure, all these points of support, relief and at the same time simplification could be summarized in a concept of a more collaborative attitude of the public towards both the private citizen and the private economic operator. The second section of intervention by the legislator-Government and the legislator-Parliament concerns precisely the simplification mechanism: simplifications that have been introduced force in an apparently heterogeneous way, but in reality linked to a common point that relates to the recommendations that Italy received during the European semester in the face of the examination of our National Reform Programme and our Stability Programme, which has hesitated a series of homogenizing and unifying suggestions of the Council transferred to Italy by the Commission. These simplifications mainly apply to the construction sector, and in this case the Commission's work has partly affected a portion of the text that, from the perspective of the Government and also in the work of the Commission, had a more liberalizing breath: they affected the use and interconnection of building tools such as the permission to build, the DIA, the super DIA, the SCIA, giving a precise demarcation of the respective areas of operation and of the respective areas of interaction. They have had a significant impact on environmental simplification, and in this respect I allow myself, precisely because of the time that I have been given to explain the portion of the text that I am responsible for, to refer to the point, especially for the amended part (significant, important amendments have been tabled, which are important in relation to the text by the Commission in the field of the environment), to the written report which I shall present to the House and which will be the substratum, the pillar on which I base this description inevitably on principles. Another simplification that has been strongly recommended by the European Union concerns the labour sector, and here again it is a reference that has a conceptual and temporal connection to other measures, but also measures that have crossed these classrooms and measures soon to come. I would like to stress, as the rapporteur, Mr Guerrieri Paleotti, has done, some very significant points for us. We are now at the second stage of those three in which I have shared the meaning of this measure: simplification. We wanted to simplify, as was said before, certain structures of relationship between the State and its citizens, businesses and labour, with regard to certain product sectors and to certain production sectors which represent for us, together, an objective of valorization of merit and simplification of procedures, because certainly a cost that the citizen and the entrepreneur together are faced with is the cost of unnecessary rules. In this sense, a simplification to which, again, I will refer only to principles, but which for us is a significant issue and in any case of future development, is simplification in the field of health. Again, we consider it appropriate that what is no longer indispensable is not required of a citizen who, moreover, as Senator Guerrieri Paleotti rightly recalled, can benefit, now more than ever, of automated information systems that must, if they are not already, be even better connected in order to prevent the burden of producing, demonstrating and certifying, even as a cost element of the citizen himself. Therefore, another leitmotiv, another red thread, another dominant theme of this measure, on which we have worked with commitment, concerns the possibility of not burdening the non-necessary. Another issue that has been dealt with not only in this measure, but in the measures that have marked the start of this legislature concerns the empowerment of public administration. Moreover, in Article 28, this provision contains a courageous principle of liability, as it introduces the right to claim compensation for delay in the conclusion of administrative proceedings initiated at the request of a party where the proceedings are not terminated in good time or are not terminated at all. I state that a principle of liability already existed and exists in the administrative process, with the possibility of compensation for damage (i.e. with a request for damage caused by delay), but the issue of compensation is combined with compensation for damage, giving the citizen further guarantees of that efficiency and effectiveness of the public administration that must not only be written on paper, in an article of the Constitution, but effectively practiced in the relations between citizens and public administration: daily reports of citizens (single and associated, individual and in complex formations), who must feel their relationship with the public administration not already as a burden or as an element of hostility, delay or cost, but as an element of facilitation. This is the true meaning of the simplifications that - I repeat - are linked to different areas of operation, to different sectors and also to different commodity contexts, but which have as a uniting and homogenizing element precisely the desire to eliminate a given cost and loss of time, which is now almost systematically attributed to us in all the international rankings and in all the indicators of performance as an element of economic and commercial discomfort of our country also for the rooting of investments. In view of the inconvenience arising from performance indicators that are sometimes attributed to us by international organisations and bodies and also by some foreign partners, another issue that the measure deals with and concerns, precisely, the safety of performance indicators and concerns the third part that I would like to illustrate. Therefore, there is an incentive to the economy through various, complex and apparently uneven measures, but that are actually linked by the red thread that Senator Guerrieri Paleotti has first highlighted: I am referring to the desire to run fast towards recovery through some levers of momentum that allow economic operators - and not only - to speed up the path of exit from the crisis. The second issue of simplification is also divided into sectors, based on the needs of the European Union's recommendations and also on a legislative path that must not be interrupted. The third theme is very linked to the principle of securing the performance indicators of our country with respect to our ability to be beehive of investments and good growth ground. It concerns the deflation of civil litigation. In this sense it is envisaged, through a strengthening and widening of a staff of honorary judiciary, to strengthen the activities of the ordinary magistrate. In this respect, I would just like to mention, once again mainly in terms of issues, what the provisions on justice, on the other hand, have to do with certain provisions which relate, moreover, to other provisions. In fact, what our Commission has highlighted - and this will of course also be part of the debate of the House - is that some of these issues, while having a connection and while having in them the need to be connected by the need to speed up our economic propensities in order to get out of the crisis as soon as possible, have however the characteristic of being inside them sometimes linked more than to themselves to other provisions that come out of this decree. Certainly the issue of justice is dealt with in this measure in a limited and sectoral way in relation to the precise objective of the potential disposal of litigation. In this sense, too, we have as a point of reference the impetus that has been coming to us for too long, also to be remembered and, together, from Europe to contain the inconvenience of time, of cost and, of course, of social malaise that comes from an ordinary criminal, administrative and civil judiciary that fails to honour in time the demands for justice. On this, too, through a work done in the Commission, since it is a question of non-organic justice, because the measure is heterogeneous, we wanted to influence as far as possible on the basis of the principle that represented the guideline of this measure on the dispositions in question, which concern the appointment of 400 auxiliary judges and define the methods of recruitment, the criteria by which the activity of the judges must be exercised, the criteria of incompatibility, ineligibility, recusability, abstention and, above all, their performance indicators. There is another issue closely related to the need to deflate the increasing litigation for auxiliary judges related to the second degree of justice, that is to say the court of appeal, where statistically the greatest amounts of slopes are combined. This element, which is transposed by this decree and which has already been dealt with by the legislator, concerns the mandatory mediation, which had a phase of arrest through a passage to the Constitutional Court which, in reality, has withdrawn in doubt not already the merit or practicability of the obligatory mediation as regards the violation of the right to action or the principle of contradictory, but rather an excess of delegation practiced by the legislator. Compulsory mediation has been re-inserted, regulated and valued to allow a preliminary and pre-litigation threshold containing, as far as possible, the flow of civil cases through an early definition of the dispute. Certain changes introduced in the Commission relate to certain aspects which have been dealt with in the House. I am referring, for example, to the division in communion and the possibility of authentic signatures by lawyers and notaries. Furthermore, a number of amendments were made to Royal Decree 267 of 1942 in the matter of arrangement, providing that the entrepreneur may lodge the application containing the request for arrangement together with the budgets for the last three years and the name list of creditors with the indication of the respective claims, reserving the right to submit the proposal, the plan and the documentation provided for within a time limit set by the court. The addition of the Commission concerns the need for a reasoned decree by which the court sets the time limit within which the court may appoint the judicial commissioner. It is - we see it - measures inevitably not linked by a profound thematic thread within this same measure, but which have as their final objective the simplification, the speed and the containment of the hardships of the crisis. In conclusion, I would like to recall the amendment, which was made precisely at the end of the Commission's work, to the reduction of the ceiling of managers' salaries to the extent of 25%, which was also mentioned by my colleague, Mr Guerrieri Paleotti, co-rapporteur. It is only one of the elements of change made in the Commission, but it certainly has a value - as well as other amendments that have been mentioned in the course of this necessarily rapid exposure - linked to different, but equally important, needs to reduce the costs of public administration. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u8	Senator Bernini, the Presidency authorizes you to attach the written text of your report. The minority rapporteur, Senator Bisinella, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Bisinella.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with a great clamour, a few weeks ago, the Letta Government presented this measure, Decree-Law No 69, which we are debating here today. The enthusiasm was so much that the Executive renamed him as the "decree of doing." We have examined the text very carefully and, as we will also have the opportunity to see together, it will clearly emerge that the term "decree of doing" should refer not so much to the current version of the measure, but rather to the initiatives that should be taken to make it really a useful legislative text. The government representatives do not want them, but the shortcomings highlighted by this measure, in various respects, are really remarkable and widespread. Yet, and the facts have shown this, no initial prejudice has been moved on our part towards this decree. On the contrary, the North League and Autonomy have always expressed the will to support and share the measures that can help the recovery of the economy and to which this decree should have been targeted, all the more in a moment of serious economic crisis like the current one. We were therefore hopeful, but once again the Government with this measure has largely disappointed expectations. There were many expectations, and now that illusions have been revealed, unfortunately, they also lead to harsh criticism in us. Beware, however: the purpose of this minority report that we have intended to present is not to challenge the useful initiatives of the country per party taken, but rather to highlight how much more could and should have been done. If, in fact, the direction behind this measure is undoubtedly commendable and appreciable, the same cannot be said of its content, even less of the examination procedure that this act has had to follow. First of all, it seems necessary to point out that this time too, for the umpteenth time, the legislative instrument adopted by the Government in order to respond to the needs of the enterprises is that of the decree-law, that is, of the decree of urgency. But today Italian companies are asking for structural, stable, long-lasting reforms to policy, not rules scattered here and there in a single large cauldron called, precisely, "decree of making" only as an announcement. It is true that the advantage of the decree is represented precisely by the immediacy in its entry into force, the entry into force of norms that can be expected: but was it really necessary to get to this point, to bring such heterogeneous provisions into a kind of omnibus decree? Or was it necessary to wait for the European Commission to remind us that the resources provided by Brussels in terms of the Structural Funds must be properly and effectively invested, or should they be lost? Clearly, if it is true that within this rule this long-standing and outdated problem is also reappearing. The Lega Nord and Autonomie Group also presented a preliminary question on constitutionality which will shortly be presented and which will largely take account of the illegitimacy profiles of this measure, as well as, on the substance, intends to highlight - and will do so in the general discussion and explanation of vote - our reasoned criticisms in the analysis of the rules presented. However, I do not want to fail to say what I said earlier, when I announced that my speech would be aimed at highlighting some of the most important provisions, to which, according to our Group, a different follow-up had to be made, having to do with them and being able to improve them. We could therefore only start from the analysis of the industrial sector, but starting from a terrifying fact: the failures of the companies in Italy have grown 65 percent in four years, recording almost 50,000 from the beginning of the crisis, of which more than 3,000 only in the first three months of this year. A Caporetto that for many entrepreneurs, especially of my own region, Veneto, has turned into a real social drama, with a dizzying increase of suicides of entrepreneurs. The government's response to this tragic situation is lukewarm. Indeed, making access to the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises easier is a positive and obviously acceptable signal. But in addition to good will, perhaps someone believes that such action can really resolve the problems of our businesses? Moreover, the adaptation of the criteria for the assessment of companies for access to the guarantee of the fund will be defined only at the end of 2013 with the adoption of a ministerial decree. For businesses arriving at Christmas it is, yes, good news, there is no doubt; but for those who do not make it to the end of the year? Today, companies are in crisis both because of a collapse of demand and because of the difficulty of finding fresh resources to create investment and new work. A genuine policy of economic growth of our companies cannot therefore be limited to these simple provisions which, although laudable, risk not being decisive. It is no coincidence that our Group has intervened on many provisions, trying to anticipate their entry into force, so as to increase their benefits and avoid the dangerous blocking of scheduled orders. And what about the energy sector, a strategic area for the economy of our home, but where in this case too the Executive missed an opportunity, missing in full a long-term strategic action aimed at restoring greater competitiveness to the Italian economy? Worse was done with the Rotary Development Cooperation Fund, where there are 108 million euros at 31 December 2012. Too bad that from 2000 to 2011 only € 4.4 million were paid out for only eight financing proposals! Are we sure that we can afford, in this economic situation, the luxury of managing a fund that does not work, when perhaps it would be easier and more useful to allocate resources and resources for the most profitable activities? The concept of efficiency, which should also be exported to those regions where the European Union is now forcing us to intervene in order to speed up the use of the Structural Funds, has always been a beacon for us. Do not make full use of the available EU funds, if until yesterday it could be considered yet another bad example of the Southern administrations, today it is an unacceptable element, all the more so for the areas of the country where local authorities do not have this fortune. Provisions such as the one described, then, also alternate shares, such as the one relating to the financing of tax incentives and to the financing of infrastructures, where the value of the infrastructure work is reduced from 500 to 200 million euros above which tax credit is granted in case of the construction of new infrastructures through public-private partnership contracts and de-taxation. These are, without doubt, positive initiatives that, in the constructive perspective that our Group has set itself up, we have felt to support and also to have to improve. Just as it has been necessary to intervene on the field of the nautical one and the ports, relative to which, in order to remedy to past mistakes made from the then Government Monti, the provision abolishes the gabelle previewed on the small boats, reducing also those for the boats of greater dimensions. What, however, do the representatives of Civic Choice for Italy say today that on that occasion they wanted and voted for this measure? Both the decree-law in question should have been done and it has not been done: I am referring to the labour, employment and education sector. Let us think, for example, of the tax side, on which much more has to be done: it allows, it is true, more time for those who cannot pay, but we all know that we should put our hand to an organic reform of the tax system. As for the lightening of the electricity bill, why didn't you think to cut the tariffs by 30% to align with other European countries? For example, it would have been possible to rethink the relationship with the public administration, the true bulwark of every conservation, which should be reversed as a glove, because there is not only a problem of excessive rules and cumbersome management, but of basic setting, of philosophy. One of the biggest gaps is credit. Easier access for small and medium-sized enterprises investing in new machinery, even with the contribution of the Deposit and Loan Fund, is an interesting move. However, the resources allocated are not enough, rather it is between 2 and 3 billion that will be allocated only by the law of stability. It must also be asked whether this is all that the Government intends to do against credit crunch, while interesting proposals have been circulating for a long time to intervene on banks, extracting from the budget credits now inexpensible and stranded matches forever, in exchange for a substantial opening of the taps to families and businesses. Not to play up, but of course it is striking that there is nothing really to reduce current public expenditure; indeed, many of the measures included in this text, which between them do not hold and are not coordinated, undoubtedly lead to an increase in public expenditure and, therefore, of our public debt. True, cutting hurts, perhaps even more than taxing, but the Italian State is a pachyderma unable to move, voracious only to feed its own survival: making it lose weight is necessary, as well as inevitable. What happened to the spending review? The answer is not in the "decree of doing," and these shortcomings, which overwhelm the supposed advantages that would be achieved, are the result of the policy of indecision that the Government produces because - I regret to say - of the decadent political majority that today composes it. The country needs measures of growth and simplification, in order to support the economic recovery of our business activities. But there are simplifications and simplifications. Those, for example, provided here on the process of acquiring citizenship for the foreigner born in Italy have nothing to do with the installation of the norm (which, let's remember, is called "decree of doing"), yet the decree-law also intervenes on this issue, reviewing some aspects related to the formality of the process of acquiring citizenship. Honestly, we suspect that with this maquillage intervention the Government is preparing the ground to intervene on the current legislation on the acquisition of citizenship. Moreover, the subject of ius soli has always been particularly dear to this Executive since its inception, if I am not mistaken, so much as to be preferred, and by far, to other matters far more important and urgent for our citizens and also for foreigners from us residents and regulars, who in turn have lost their jobs and are returning to the countries of origin. I will not insist further on the issue of citizenship, not before I have confirmed our firm position: integration can take place, first of all, through a path of assimilation in society and its various local realities, so as to live actively in our country. It is in the local communities that true integration is created. All other regulatory interventions, fellow senators, are palliative that do not address the problem concretely, they do not solve it. As we have said, there are simplifications and simplifications. Indeed, what is provided for in the legal text on the collection of taxes is undoubtedly substantial: the measures aimed at facilitating taxpayers in economic difficulties, widening the possibility of payment of taxes and strengthening the impignability of the first and only house of residence against debts entered in the role, are important provisions that meet our full favor because they are placed in the direction, which we have been carrying forward for years, to facilitate, precisely at a time of economic crisis such as the current one, the citizen and the enterprise. Regarding the latter, could it be a regulatory simplification in favour of companies the provision relating to the DURT included in the text by the House? Perhaps it would be appropriate for those who today rise to change Italy to specify it and act to do it for the better, not taking measures that must then always be rectified in the course of work. On the other hand, there is a risk of changing the country for the worse, making it even worse with burdens that you do not really feel the need for. Thankfully, however, the abolition of the DURT - which is possible mainly thanks to our commitment - goes hand in hand with the adoption of other important amendments which we believe must be supported and for which we express great satisfaction. First of all, we should have accepted our proposal on so-called zero kilometre contracts, which should be foreseen immediately and which would finally give priority to the criterion of territoriality for all contracts, large and small, through the application of a higher score in the calls for environmental sustainability: a necessary and long-awaited intervention, which will finally allow, as is right, the local companies and, therefore, those that best know the territory, in such a way that, in addition to the mere economic evaluation, this aspect is also positively considered in the contracts. How can we fail to express satisfaction at the transposition of two of our important amendments between the various proposals for improvements to the text we have tabled? I refer, in particular, to what you consider to be virtuous in their entirety those regions which have a ratio equal to or lower than the national average between staff expenditure and current expenditure. This is an important point in the field of finance for local and regional authorities, for which the League has been committed for a long time: this is therefore a very great result. Without forgetting, then, our commitment - for example, it is the Piedmontese who have to thank our movement - which finally gave the green light to the definition of the Transport Authority in Turin. We also committed ourselves at night, and in the end, even with the vote against those who say in words that they want to change Italy, we managed to achieve this important achievement, which in its small, at least in this sector, shows that Italy, if it wants, can really change. It is certainly not less important, ladies and gentlemen, to approve the amendment supplementing the rules on expropriation. Thanks to our commitment, in fact, now it will not be possible to give rise to the expropriation for a specific basket of goods defined as essential goods, instrumental to the activity of enterprise, which will have to be appropriately identified by a special decree. It is a targeted and necessary intervention to extend the expected unassailability of the expropriation also to the essential goods, in order to start a more complex and organic reform of the novelties linked today to the only first home. I would like to conclude on this last point, ladies and gentlemen. In the various measures - about 80 - launched by the Council of Ministers so far, how many really serve to create the conditions for recovering the exhausted Italian economy? If the decree on our examination were not converted - let us ask ourselves - citizens and businesses would really realize it? I don't think so. The various interventions need, in fact, to be accompanied by a more robust economic policy. The package that we are analyzing contains for now, and unfortunately again, only messages. Our overall view of the measure, therefore, cannot be positive, indeed, can only be negative, even in the light of the process that the examination of the measure has had in the Commission, with a government that has proved confused and confusing: too many uncultivated objectives, excessive scarcity of some measures and too high, in many provisions, approximation. However, the improved work that has been done in the Commission clearly shows the spirit of the Group to which I belong: critical in the parties that do not highlight growth and support measures, but willing to commit themselves to improving, because the North League is really the party to do it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Guerrieri Paleotti and Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u10	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Petraglia to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u11	Mr President, before considering Decree-Law No 69 of 21 June 2013 laying down urgent provisions for the revival of the economy (the so-called 'decree of doing'), we consider it necessary to present a proposal for a preliminary question on constitutionality. Our country has been going through a tough economic and social crisis for years, so we understand that it is the task of any newly formed government (so, also that of broad agreements) to present important acts for the revival of the economy. This Government, however, renounces to make any strategic choice, renounces to promote its own vision of the Country focusing on some fundamental issues: such as the role for Italy, such as the sectors to channel choices to revive the economy (think about creativity, quality, technology, the protection of labour and the reduction of labour costs). In short, an idea of development alternative to what has so far marked the poverty reduction of Italian citizens. Instead, it was preferred to choose the path of continuity. Therefore, we are witnessing one of the many wide referrals: we renounce strategic choices and choose to make a collage measure using the instruments of the urgent decree. The continued and repeated use of the decree of urgency as a normal legislative practice, also widely used by the current Government, despite the statements of the President of the Council Letta, which - as we all remember - in his programmatic speech of settlement had proposed to reduce the recourse to the decree (but this declaration has already become a distant memory), takes up a method introduced by the previous Executives and repeatedly censored even by the appeals of the Head of State and numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court, which have called for the restoration of a correct constitutional path. The use of trust, on the other hand, has now become customary in this Parliament and produces, on the one hand, a vulnus to Article 70 of the Constitution, which entrusts the legislative function collectively to the two Chambers, and, on the other hand, an emptying and mortification of the role of Parliament and of parliamentarians. All this happens while in the country we discuss how to bring citizens closer to politics, how to return the right of participation and choice to citizens. This decree-law, composed of heterogeneous, uneven arguments, weighed down by the changes accepted by the Government and introduced by the House, is yet another example, perhaps the most striking of this legislature, of the absolute lack of those constitutional criteria and requirements necessary for targeted interventions on specific topics that, indeed, in an extraordinary way, require urgent intervention because useful and necessary, and not solvable with other legislative instruments. This decree, coma has also demonstrated the long discussion in the two Commissions in the referent, has no extraordinary characteristics to require government intervention under Article 77 of the Constitution. The only extraordinary event, understood as an extraordinary event, is represented by the amendments and sub-amendments of the Government and the majority themselves, forced to intervene to correct themselves, so much so that it becomes an omnibus measure more and more. There is, therefore, an unbearable distortion of the constitutional relationship between established powers, between government and Parliament. We are therefore faced with a clear violation of article 15, paragraph 3, of Law No 400 of 1988, which expressly prescribes the conformity of the content with the title: content that must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title itself. In fact, it is clear that there is a lack of consistency of arguments not related to each other, but homogeneous in themselves: we think of strengthening the Guarantee Fund for Small Enterprises, limiting the remuneration for directors of companies performing services of general interest, measures to promote digital domicile, the Commission for the coordination of the public connectivity system, access to public databases, noise pollution of airfields, the authentic interpretation of incompatibility, simplifications in the field of construction, the provisions on safety at work, the simplification of the procedure for the purchase of citizenship for foreigners born in Italy, the transmission of the medical certificate by electronic means. I could go on, because the list of measures taken without a single thread in the decree-law before our examination is very long and these are issues which would need a thorough and careful analysis by Parliament, once removed, so that we can follow the normal parliamentary process and devote ourselves to careful reflection and careful study. Moreover, many of the rules contained in the decree-law in question also present in our view profiles of unconstitutionality within the meaning of Article 81 of the Constitution because, while presenting evident and significant negative financial effects, they do not have adequate coverage. For all these reasons we ask, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Regulation, not to proceed to the examination of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 69 of 21 June 2013. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u12	I call Senator Campanella to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a citizen, I have often wondered why laws are written so that only a good lawyer can read them with an acceptable margin of interpretation. Since I was a member of this House, I have understood this: the laws are made with an organization of time and operating methods that in any company, but also in any family, would be considered unacceptable. It's not that you don't work in the Senate: you work a lot, but you work badly. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Carraro]] And what's worse is that we work mainly on government input, to which majorities - this is particularly curious in its composition, but it happens in general - have often given way to legislative initiative. The constant pressure that comes to Parliament by the continuous presentation of decree-laws, subject to the sixty days of time for conversion, effectively prevents ordinary legislative activity. Legislative activity needs to deepen the themes, systematic approach and also the composition of interests, and therefore time and work done in an orderly manner. Instead here we spend time chasing the government and its decree-laws. It will be said that the government knows what it has to do: this is the approach of the People of Freedom, which wants to shift the majority of political action to the Government, leaving Parliament a role of control to be defined. We reply that it is not true that the government knows what it has to do: to hear the citizens, this does not seem, and to read the decrees, for how they arrive in Parliament, not even. We receive written texts from the offices of the Ministries, which necessarily have a bureaucratic vision of the activities that the laws will regulate: in the design of the norms carried out by the Ministries, what space do the citizens have, how much are the citizens listened to before the decree-laws are written? To this we then add the superficial approach necessarily linked to a regulatory intervention that looks at the entire human scibile, intervening on the fields of activity of all Italian society. How can a Commission analyse and decide in a matter of hours on all sectors of Italian society? You know how? With superficiality. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is with superficiality in fact that one governs in Italy, and the effects are under the eyes of all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have seen this in the Commissions meeting 1a and 5a where, in order to be able to bring the decree to the House in good time, an analysis has been made which at times appeared surreal, with an illustration of the amendments tabled which essentially resulted in the reading of the number of proposals for amendments - and nothing else - and a discussion carried out at such a speed that not I, who together with my colleagues in the Movement are new to this work, but the older and more experienced colleagues have found themselves in difficulty to follow. We pointed this out to the very expert President, but so much so, it was necessary to arrive in time at the debate on the decree in this House. To this kind of massacre of common sense, a reflection is added. Our legal system, in the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, states that when, in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, the Government takes provisional measures by force of law, it must present them for conversion to the Chambers. Attention, it is said to be in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. In the first session in which we examined this decree, all the political forces represented expressed very strong doubts - to be euphemistic - about the extraordinaryness, the homogeneity of the issues dealt with in the decree, the necessity and the urgency of rules that did not intervene on urgent issues, but on the government of the country, all done with a single measure and without an adequate study. This, gentlemen, is not a decree of doing, this is a decree of surviving, and so you cannot govern a country. I add paragraph 3 of Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988: The decrees must contain measures of immediate application and their content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title of the decree. This rule has been given normative value, yet we are going through this type of assessment. Gentlemen, the problem for which Italy is going today is mainly due to the fact that we make some statements in public and then we behave otherwise, let's say one thing while we are doing another. That way we won't, we can't take a step forward. We must also add to these considerations, as the previous speaker mentioned, those parts of the draft law which indicate charges and do not provide for the corresponding coverage. Let us remember that, in the technical report, for some articles, the General Accounting Office of the State did not place the boiling that proves the coverage. At the same time, let us remember that when we table an amendment, including in the Commission, that of coverage is the fundamental criterion on the basis of which the amendment itself is assessed. So, as soon as possible we, this House, Parliament all, the constitutional bodies that carry Italy forward, begin to approach and make identical, with a willing and continuous effort, what we declare, first, in this House and, then, in the newspapers, the sooner we can say that we have begun to take Italy out of the dry places where decades of bad government have brought it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u14	He asked Senator Volpi to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u15	Mr President, I am also very embarrassed, not because of the content, but because it seems to me to insult the knowledge and intelligence of you and your colleagues, since everyone in this House knows that what is contained in the prejudices is a photograph of the unconstitutionality of this government product. One measure, I repeat, unconstitutional. However, it is regrettable that when the prejudices are presented, one thinks of an exclusively obstructive intent or the desire to annoy. No, there's content, serious, very serious. Allow me to bring two memories to the House. When we began this legislature, in my brief stay in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, just after the constitution of the Bureau and the election of President Finocchiaro, we found ourselves with a tail of decree (ending) of the previous Government. Well, I remember speaking - it's all in the minutes, I'm not making up anything - recalling the presuppositions of the urgent decree. On that occasion, the voices of my fellow Members, starting with the President, who said that this would never happen again, both because of the centrality of Parliament and because the unconstitutionality would become apparent both because, why and why. The result, Mr President, is that, as Rossella O'Hara said in "Via col vento", tomorrow is another day and, from the next day, regardless of the beautiful statements verbalized within that context, we have returned to the usual method, which unfortunately has been repeated for a long time. I come to the other memory. In the second part of the last legislature, the North League made a strong opposition, not only on the substance, but also in the method, to the way in which the Monti Government approached Parliament: a decree of urgency and confidence. Our protest, strong and vibrant at that time, even brought our delegation to the Quirinale to confront the President of the Republic, who also on that occasion reiterated what he had already reiterated, namely that the urgent decree had rules, which needed a homogeneity of the measures, that the subsequent, eventual imposition of trust was to be considered an exceptional fact. Let us analyze, even simply, the refinement with which the Quirinal gave a hand for this decree. You can see that, Mr President, from what you have in front of you, namely the acts. The measure contains urgent provisions for the revival of the economy. In the act of issuing the President of the Republic refers to provisions for economic growth and for the simplification of the administrative and regulatory framework, measures for the efficiency of the judicial system and the definition of civil litigation, in order to give impetus to the country, the relaunch of infrastructures and the reduction of administrative burdens for citizens and businesses. Colleagues and colleagues, even the title of the decree-law does not correspond to the content of the act of issuing the decree-law signed by the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gaetti.]] I believe that a reflection on the Constitution, despite the great lack of interest in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, should be done, in particular on the fact that the Constitution cannot be used only when talking about great principles, but must also be used in the daily work carried out within the parliamentary classrooms, because the Constitution remains a rule. But it's not enough. In addition to the Constitution, we also allow ourselves to violate the implementing law as regards the urgent decree, namely Law No. 400 of 1988. Does anyone still care? I don't know. The President of the Republic's calls are, moreover, mentioned in the notes of our Rules of Procedure, in the case of a reference to the homogeneity of the arguments contained, for example, in the amendments tabled, which cannot be unrelated to the subject matter dealt with in the draft law to which they refer. I would remind you that you yourself, Mr Grasso, in a heartfelt debate between me and you on eligibility, said that the amendment on Emilia Romagna could not be tabled to the emergency measure (you think!) because it was not relevant to the matter, and therefore our amendments were declared inadmissible. Now we are told that today's examination is a uniform decree-law. I honestly see little homogeneity. Perhaps a heading should have been provided to allow colleagues to examine the measure, perhaps in alphabetical order, because this is not a decree-law: it is an encyclopedia. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is a seventy-page encyclopedia, and you, Mr President, like your colleagues in the majority, should explain to me where the homogeneity is. It is difficult to make a seventy to eighty - page measure and to say that the matter is homogeneous. But this is also noted by the President of the Republic, partially and intelligently correcting the title, which, in fact, is not the one reported on the text: at least in part is what the President of the Republic says. I do not want to go too far, because it is clear that the speeches on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling are insuffering. When truth is not instrumental, but insuffering becomes real political, and it, in turn, will (probably) lead to the ultimate demise of parliamentary democracy. I look with sympathy at the Undersecretary Giorgetti to whom I address. I think there will be a meeting of the Council of Ministers on this day at which the question of confidence in the measure will be authorised. We will therefore be forced to hear us say that the Government puts trust, and therefore the oppositions, dear President, will not even have the opportunity to vote on the very little good that they have been able to put into this measure, as trust is merely a political act. I therefore ask my colleagues in the majority: is this the decree of making or the test of the existence of this Government for you? Because we need to be clear about these things, too. For you it is, in fact, something that perhaps serves (in your opinion, not according to us) the Italians, or is it a way to overcome the criticality of a time when the various souls of the majority parties confront those who think about congresses, who about successions? If that is not the case, then you should have the parliamentary power not to put the confidence, possibly with the vast majority that you have, and not to slap Parliament further, with a numerical capacity that should allow you to take political responsibility for the individual amending elements proposed by the opposition. So, double blow: an absurd measure and an indecent proposal. Let me, Mr President, if you will allow me, conclude with a phrase by Abraham Lincoln: You can deceive everyone for some time and some forever, but you can't fool everyone forever. Abraham Lincoln forgot one thing: that you cannot be deceived by yourself, especially when you make laws, because it is a damage to democracy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u16	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP1), Senator Lezzi and other Senators (QP2), and Senator Bitonci and other Senators (QP3). It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, Mr Guerrieri Paleotti, has stressed that the economic crisis requires decisive action for growth, an action that supports the timid signs of recovery that we are witnessing, because it will depend on us, on what we are going to do in recent months, if the recovery, which will certainly come at an international level, will also affect our economy or if it will touch us without involving us deeply. This is the logic that inspired this decree and this is also the motivation with which it was justified the adoption of a decree-law that we could say almost a monster decree, at the limits of constitutionality, as underlined also by an agenda presented in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by President Finocchiaro and that we all shared and voted. The question is, therefore, whether this measure contains measures useful to this primary objective of restarting growth. The answer is yes, but only because of a small number of the provisions contained in it: strengthening the guarantees of the trusts, Sabatini for investments in digital technologies, advances on public procurement, competitive measures in the distribution of gas, some simplifications and above all some missed complications that had also been introduced in the Chamber, such as the abolition of the DURT, so we fought. However, many other provisions, we must say and recognize, are typical of the deprecated omnibus decrees, an expression of political and bureaucratic microinterests that have found an excess of listening from the Government and Parliament. (Brusio). Mr President, I am sorry, but I have a voice problem and I cannot raise it too much. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please lower the tone of the buzz. Senator, you have such an experience that you can continue. LANZILLOTTA (SPI). I understand, but it's a physical problem. Thus on tax incentives for private investment in infrastructure, which, beyond any reasonable doubt and motivation, remain subject to a complex bureaucratic procedure that will delay the departure of important investments to restart growth. This is a point, together with other important ones, on which the decree should have had more courage: for example on the digital agenda, which, after having already done so the growth decree presented by the previous Government, is rightly placed at the center of growth policies and whose responsibility is assumed directly by Palazzo Chigi. However, it remains a confused structure of governance, with an overlap of responsibility and the risk that, once again, the logic of mutual bureaucratic bans prevail, with the risk of postponements and paralysis. On this point - that of the relationship between legislation, political direction and administrative implementation - I think a reflection needs to be made. This decree, like others that preceded it, postpones the implementation of many measures to successive interministerial decrees. As experience shows (last, the decree grows in Italy), these decrees are adopted - when adopted - with enormous delays, due to conflicts between administrations and bureaucracy. The result is to frustrate the decisions, guidelines and objectives set by the Government and Parliament. This cannot and must not happen again. On this we have tabled an amendment, which I do not know if it will remain alive. Its aim is to activate a series of substitute powers until the President of the Council invests responsibility of last resort. The opinion on this amendment was obviously contrary, and I understand that, because a bureaucratic power is being conditioned, but when there are no constraints at stake, such as respect for Article 81 of the Constitution, the separation between politics and administration requires that political decisions have their autonomy towards the recipients of innovation and change, otherwise we transpose one of the principles on which political responsibility is based. I would also like to focus on one of the most important issues in the Commission. I am referring to that of the roof as regards the emoluments of managers. There has been an unpleasant and false representation of a rigorous and intransigent government and a laxist and permeable parliament in lobbying: that is not the case, and that needs to be clarified. The rules approved by the Chamber of Deputies would exclude all state and local public companies from the ceiling of the spending review. The 25% cut proposed by the Government would, in many cases, have been much lower than that made with the decree grow Italy. Therefore, the Commissions, at the initiative of the Civic Choice, have restored the ceiling of the spending review and have introduced the 25% cut for the emoluments of listed companies, of the companies to these equals and of their participations, that until now had not suffered any reduction. Colleagues, I believe, however, that this issue must be taken up again with a less crude and less demagogic approach. I believe that the Government has a responsibility to indicate a method and criteria for determining the level of emoluments in relation to the characteristics of individual companies. The Government has the responsibility to remove this sensitive matter, which concerns the functioning of societies that manage crucial sectors of our economy, demagogic drives and propaganda. On this too, we ask the Government to get out of the logic of short-term fragmentary measures and to face structural reforms, without which growth will escape us, decreeing an increase in the gap between the Italian economy and the most dynamic European economies. So, after this first phase, the dreaded weariness can only be avoided if the Government works with more courage, with more vision and with more reformative ambition. If so, we will support him with conviction, while we hope, with all sincerity, that we do not yet have to find ourselves faced with omnibus decrees-laws like that today at our examination. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Lepri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u18	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u19	Mr President, a little bit of everything has been said about this "decree of doing": there has been talk of the criticalities about the urgency and the revival of the economy; in short, we have said a bit of everything. We must point out our great achievement which has made us particularly proud. I am referring to the possibility for all citizens, movements, parliamentarians, parties and anyone who wants to finance this guarantee fund for micro-enterprises at last. All this has given us a further breath of optimism, even if we would have liked a little more. We have also tried to exploit the criticalities of this decree, that is, its heterogeneity, so much so that within this measure we wanted to insert something that was a little less relevant than the revival of the economy. I am thinking, for example, of the abolition of the exercise or of the possibility, for those who receive a fair notice from the Revenue Agency, of indemnifying directly with a more easy number of instalments. This was not given to us precisely because of its relevance, because the spirit of this Government prevailed, which is those of the postponement of the postponement. However, we hope - and we are quite optimistic - that these commitments and demands will probably be taken into account in the tax delegation. In the Commissions there has been a great deal of discussion and there was some convergence - I say this to the Undersecretary - about these emergencies in the country, which, I repeat, I hope will soon be caught. In fact, instead, we have received aspects that have left us a little perplexed. It is true that this is a heterogeneous measure, but with the revival of the economy, the transitional provisions on incompatibility, which are a kind of pardon for those who have dual duties in the municipalities and in Parliament, have very little to do. Now the dying country is stretching a hand again and it has a little awakened and we hope that the government will be able to take his hand in a strong and determined way and to raise it up, as it should be. The so-called "decree of making 2" is already envisaged. We hope that all the requests brought by the Members of Parliament, for example, relating to the fact that transport cannot be treated lightly or that education needs attention and everything else, will be taken and that the measure will be unpacked so that it can be better defined and can have more positive effects on the real recovery of the economy and the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u21	Mr President, in recent days, the sad thoughts, probably conditioned by a Manzoni memory - I am referring to the "History of the Infamous Column" - or perhaps even evoked by the classics of the dramaturgy of the early twentieth century (I am thinking of Ugo Betti), have prevailed in me the sense of responsibility towards the Italians, towards the many families without income or, in any case, with inadequate income to satisfy even and only the primary needs, towards the many young unemployed, towards the exodates and towards my country, which urgently needs an economic recovery. It is, therefore, with this new spirit, and by abandoning the memories, emotions and sad feelings of these last days, that I have begun to read and reflect on Decree-Law No 69 of 2013, which we are examining today in the context of conversion and reflection on it. I am convinced that the economy is a science in which the contribution does not depend on any ideology and that economic freedom is also an indispensable tool for achieving political freedom. I am also wary of some economists who are often like surgeons who possess an excellent chisel and a scalped scalpel, tools that allow them to work wonderfully on the dead but to marry the living. Finally, I am convinced that morals and justice are born in wealth and abundance while looting, stealing, organized crime and delinquency are born of poverty and misery. I have failed to focus on a number of provisions relating to safety at work, public procurement, simplification of requirements relating to training and risk assessment and health surveillance for agricultural enterprises, a whole series of rules on cultural goods (Article 39), on all interventions on public procurement, limits on foreclosures and expropriation, on the mitigation of the aggression of creditors also through state bodies or agreements with the State, in order to lighten the burden of a debt situation difficult to bear at this time, which has led many companies in our country to have to close. I have left out, partly because I am not an expert on matters specifically of a fiscal nature, but I have focused my attention on articles ranging from 62 to 85, which constitute a complex reformer in the organization of judicial offices. That there should be a reform of a legal nature, and therefore of the organisation of the judicial offices, I have also had the opportunity to report it to the Chancellors Minister at the hearing in the Justice Commission. As an operator of the law and in particular as a person attentive to procedural and civilistic rules, I have failed, I cannot and I do not think I could ever imagine procedural rules that could lead to a limitation of the time of the trial, in particular of the civil process, if we still keep alive - as we must - the guarantee rules in the context of a timely and precise contradictory. Then, since there is no possibility, we have intervened in all forms and manners within the framework of the rules of the civil process, but we have failed to achieve the constitutionally stated principle of Article 111 of the Constitution. We have not succeeded, and that means that the main road is probably a reform of an orderly nature. Otherwise, I would not even explain how it is possible for certain judicial offices to be identified as models of operation compared to others who see the trials languishing for many years. In sharing the necessary regulatory action, however, I cannot fail to criticize - I must say - the urgent decision in this area. I do not think it is possible that in a decree-law we insert measures that require a more careful evaluation and a more punctual arrangement of the norms to be inserted in a harmonic way in the whole system. To intervene in justice in such a schizophrenic way, at times, is not useful for carrying out a fair process of reasonable duration. These rules have been incorporated into a decree-law, and are therefore implemented under an emergency procedure, where, in my opinion, they should have been examined with a more in-depth contribution from Members and senators. I think that when the Government intervenes with a decree of urgency in matters such as this it does an abuse of the legislative process. For reasons of time, I merely reflect on the provisions contained in Articles 62 to 85 to which I have first referred. In my view, the rules governing the recruitment of 400 auxiliary judges are wrong, just as the pensionable age of 78 is wrong. I wonder: if a togato magistrate retires at 72 years of age and can work up to 75 years at his request, why should an auxiliary judge retire at 78 years of age? Attention: is this an auxiliary judge who will have to compose a college, who will have to be a rapporteur in sensitive cases, and this up to 78 years old? I don't know, probably such a rule is useful to facilitate the possibility for the retired judge to return to work again in a judicial office. I understand that from a human point of view. But I also wonder how it is possible that a magistrate who retires at the age of 75 with the function of adviser to the Court of Cassation (the progression in career is automatic, we know) must then live such a mortifying condition as auxiliary judge. It is an economic issue: we do not have the money, and otherwise we should have banned a competition for 400 judges, and so we would have solved the problem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The time at your disposal is over. FALANGA (PdL). Gentlemen of the Government, I must criticize the provisions of Article 73 of the decree regarding the training internship at the judicial offices. I believe that it is not difficult to imagine that when it is established as a requirement the degree grade cannot be ignored that the preparation and examinations carried out at a normal university have a different meaning than the preparation and examinations carried out with an online university or similar. It is clear that the graduation grade cannot be an indicator of the preparation. The same applies to practicing. A distinction is made between the young man practicing in a law firm of a qualified and prestigious lawyer... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. FALANGA (PdL). Overwhelmed, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorvoli. FALANGA (PdL). I have tabled a number of amendments which will probably be rejected, partly because the question of trust will probably be raised. It doesn't matter. In spite of this, I will vote in favour of the conversion of this decree for a sense of responsibility, Mr. Representative of the Government, but my vote is accompanied by a prayer: please, for the future, please do not deprive me of my prerogatives as a senator anymore. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u22	Senator Fravezzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, on 29 May the European Commission, officializing the request to repeal the excessive deficit procedure against Italy, made six recommendations on the 2013 National Reform Programme; six economic and political measures to be implemented to maintain the position that, with great sacrifices on the part of the country, has been laboriously achieved. Among the recommendations contained in the Commission's document are, for example, the continuation of the work of consolidation of public accounts; the optimisation of the mechanisms of the state bureaucratic machine; the reform of the banking system with a view to its greater efficiency; the introduction of reforms that re-launch training projects in the professional and labour world, so as to bring workers and businesses closer together; the reduction of the tax burden on the productive sector and on labour costs, so as to give greater competitiveness to national production and to the whole country. The bill of conversion that we are going to examine today, together with other decrees-laws that we have approved in recent weeks (I refer in particular to the decree-law on the payment of debts of the public administration, Decree-Law No 76 on employment, social cohesion, VAT, Decree-Law No 63 on energy performance in buildings and on the definition of infringement procedures initiated by the European Commission), largely incorporates the meaning of the recommendations that have been made to us and for this reason it seems necessary to acknowledge to the Government and the entire Parliament, even if in part it is reduced in its function, the merit for the complex and demanding work that are - we are doing - also in view of the limited margins of public expenditure due to budgetary constraints and the crisis situation, which unfortunately is not cyclical but structural and which must be answered with exceptional instruments. 11:31 a.m. (FRAVEZZI follow). In fact, the decree-law under consideration contains a considerable amount of heterogeneous provisions, as has already been said, which nevertheless have a common positive denominator, namely that of giving impetus to the recovery of our economy. In fact, as stated by the Minister of Economy, at the end of this year the general economic situation should be improved in such a way as to suggest a possible exit from the tunnel of recession and even that 2014, according to the estimates confirmed also by the Bank of Italy, will be entirely a year of positive sign (this is to be hoped for by everyone, because we save the country and we also save ourselves). These statements were also confirmed by the head of the Confindustria Study Centre and other authoritative study centres. All these concerted declarations, and in particular that of the Minister, are the confirmation that the measures adopted by the Government under the urgency procedure in these few months of activity, including today's one, are moving in the right direction and especially at the end of the summer we should start to see the first results, which are most desirable, so citizens will also be able to perceive the effectiveness of these measures. However, these are only the first steps, that is, the first measures, to which we must necessarily and urgently add others, in a framework of coordinated and planned interventions, avoiding to stumble or to stop our path because of facts or acts, alien to the activity of government, which politically could put at risk the fate and the stability tirelessly achieved. Also the Governor of the Bank of Italy, during the press conference held at the end of the G20, expressed the fear of the possible damages deriving from the presence of tensions in the Government and in the majority that create uncertainty about the stability of our political system, determining negative judgments on its estate and therefore about the inability to continue on the path of the reforms, as unfortunately confirms the downgrading, moreover not justified by the fundamentals, by the rating agency Standard & Poor's. Undoubtedly the time is difficult: the crisis is still the shadow that obscures the future of citizens and then we do not suffocate these timid signs of recovery; Let's catch them, but we don't have to stop. The road is the right one and we must continue to go along it in order to consolidate the results obtained and achieve new ones, so as to confirm that growth is continuing and that the shadows I was talking about are finally disappearing. The document of economy and finance that we have approved in recent months has in fact traced the path of our economic policy and we are pleased to note that the Government is giving implementation to what it indicated in spite, precisely, the difficulties. The financial resources available are insufficient to carry out all the actions we would like to see implemented in favour of businesses and citizens. Many of the amendments have been turned into agendas or referred to the tax delegation, but this is also true - and we are all aware of this - of the complexity of the moment. They are all measures that should generate liquidity in the system. In this context, the exploitation and disposal of the state's buildings, for example, are key points of the economic document, as well as privatisations, such as the use of the European Structural Funds, which have not yet been fully used, such as simplifications; all of them, however, at zero cost, for which only a strong will is needed. This is the way and it's already been tracked. Returning to the decree in question, as has already been pointed out, its articulation is complex and the provisions contained therein are actually, in many cases, very heterogeneous. Honestly, considering that the measure had been announced as a decree aimed at bureaucratic, administrative and fiscal simplification, we expected a text a little more streamlined, easier to read. This was not the case and, indeed, during the first reading in the Chamber, some articles have been approved which have made it even more difficult to understand, as well as to complicate some procedures for companies, so much so that we ran to the shelter during the examination of the measure in the meeting committees 1a and 5a of the Senate. Although we largely agree with the content of the measure, we believe that such a heterogeneity of the provisions can accentuate the sense of legal uncertainty. However, some of the measures contained in Title I, devoted to economic growth, certainly deserve special mention: I am referring in particular to those which provide funding for the purchase of new machinery, equipment and equipment by small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the measures envisaged for the safety of school buildings. In addition to these, I would like to remind you of the simplification measures provided for in Title II, which concern the construction sector, as well as the innovative provision introduced in our legal system which provides for compensation for delays in the conclusion of the procedure, i.e. the right for the person concerned, for the citizen, to claim compensation for the mere delay of the public administration in the conclusion of administrative proceedings initiated at the request of a party. We welcome the adoption of the amendment requiring communications within the public administration to be made electronically, for the adoption of the amendments that have deleted the DURT, as has been said, and for the solution found, after a long debate in the Commissions, on the issue of the compensation of public managers, on which a bit of confusion was fueled by the mass media or by someone in a somewhat instrumental way. In this respect, as has already been pointed out by some of my colleagues, it would have been most appropriate to have greater respect for the work of the Commissions themselves. In the end, however, even on this subject a solution was found, with great common sense by all the Groups present in the Senate. The speakers, both Senator Guerrieri Paleotti and Senator Bernini, have already extensively illustrated the important novelties of the decree, as modified during his parliamentary iter, highlighting the positive aspects, as well as some critical issues. I do not therefore intend to be repetitive, even for a speech of economy of the times. I just want to express our appreciation of the great work that has been done here by the Government, by the rapporteurs, by the entire majority and also by the whole opposition - from this point of view there has been, in fact, a positive attitude, and I am also referring to the intervention that Senator Lezzi did just now - to improve the text and make it more responsive to some urgent issues, the solution of which was also recommended to us by the European Council. I therefore hope that most of the groups in this House will approve this measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Guerrieri Paleotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u24	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u25	Madam President, improving this measure is an impossible task. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Mixed Groups]] And because it's impossible, we couldn't. However, we have done something that revives bicameralism, remedying the damage that has been done to the House: therefore, if someone had in mind to fire the Senate, perhaps he had been caught by strabism and it is better that he begins to see differently. One thing must be said at once about this. Putting trust, the government in the House had not improved the provision. On the subject of the ceiling on the salaries of public managers we all know how hard we had to do yesterday in the Commission to hold a position, to restore what had been dethroned to the House and then to improve the text that we had already improved in the Commission with the repeal of Article 12-a. I say this because we all have to learn and we also have to learn this Government, which is in line with all previous ones. Parliament is dethroned, it is deleted, in a vision - like saying - authoritarian, by regime, that we must put aside; but we all, whenever we have the opportunity to stay in the button room, where we decide, must abandon this view, we must make Parliament work better and more. This measure could have been a set of draft laws that the Government presented, asking the Chamber and the Senate of emergency procedures, giving the Commissions the task of carrying out the thematic examination by theme, obtaining the best possible from the competences that are also present within the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, reaching the approval of a set of measures definitely significant, but more thoughtful, more discussed, more shared, on which probably could have been built even larger majorities. Instead, as usual, the path of urgent decree was chosen, making a scam. In fact, to say that there are three or four or five measures in this soup, four or five urgent articles are possible; but out of 85 there are 80 which are not urgent, which are differable. And then simplification: when it is dealt with inside a soup, the easiest thing that happens is that, with the aim of simplifying itself, it eventually complicates itself. I took the trouble to look for some of the structures that are recalled, with specific competences, many times duplication of competences and exercise of substitute powers, within the measure: there are direction cabins, technical tables, address committees, agencies in various titles appointed, public companies, extraordinary commissioners, mission structures, centres of advice, companies participated in house or controlled. In short, there is an archipelago that no longer contains bureaucracy in various committed titles, which reproduces, confirms itself and sometimes expands in this measure. Even where the Digital Agenda is concerned, even where innovation is concerned, even where it is a question of simplification, such as the issue of the Structural Funds, we are dealing with rules that are also constitutionally dubious, which call into question the whole system of local authorities' powers, and there is a risk that, instead of accelerating expenditure, they will complicate it and make it slower. I want to conclude with an invitation to all of us, including the Government: what is the need to proceed in this way? You have a Bulgarian majority; I know you have some fibrillation inside, but you have a Bulgarian majority. You are in a position, therefore, to dictate Parliament's agenda, to speed up its pace; control all presidencies, you are overflowing, you are more than that: go towards the ordinary procedure. However, this measure is not all bad: something we have also managed to do, not only about the business of managers, which strikes. One issue, for example, has been the issue of local issues, the crisis in publishing and information. This is not only a question of transparency, but also, and above all, the freedom of information, which arises from the fact that more people are able and able to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish, Senator Uras. URAS (Misto-SEL). I conclude by saying that if we had the opportunity to move towards a more orderly management of Parliament's work and legislative activity, we would do much better than we are doing for the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few brief comments on the measures for university and research contained in the 'decree of doing'. If we look at the measures contained in it, we will find a loosening of turnover constraints for recruitment in universities and research institutions, from 20% to 50%. What is hailed as a rewarding measure for the university is actually simply the continuation of a scandalous situation, so that every two researchers who retire, universities and institutions can only hire one. It is a situation that does not find the same in other countries, in which research and university have the prestige they must have, as leading sectors for the development of a country. There are also measures concerning mobility grants: mobility is certainly meritorious, students must be able to move to study and experience, but these measures overlap with those on the right to study, which have not been touched at all by the "decree of doing." I remember that the Fund for the right to study langue, was the subject of very heavy cuts and was recently reordered by Legislative Decree No. 68 of 2012. In this field the resources are so few, that in Italy there is the scandalous phenomenon of suitable without a stock exchange. The "decree of doing" does not intervene on this aspect, but invents another category of bags, and therefore does not address the problem at the root. We come to the increases relating to the University Financing Fund established by the Decree-Law under consideration. In this case - hear, hear! - the government has allocated an increase of 21 million euros for the university. It could actually seem an exceptional result: it is a pity that this amount only corresponds to 0.4 per cent of the University Financing Fund, and that this increase of EUR 21 million must be spread out among more than 70 universities. This happens after a year when this Fund has been cut by EUR 300 million, so think of what a ridiculous measure we are talking about. As far as research institutions are concerned, the increase is even more than EUR 3.6 million, when the corresponding Fund was cut by EUR 50 million just last year. We come to the last measure on the premium share of the Fund for the functioning of universities, which will rise from 7% to 20%, while the three-fifths of this sum - which amounts to about EUR 1.4 billion - will be decided on the basis of the results of the Quality Assessment of Research (VQR). Too bad that the results of this evaluation, published last July 16, showed that there is a southern issue in the university: the universities of the South perform worse than those of the North. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Bocchino. BOCCHINO (M5S). I'm finishing, Madam President. Basically, if we give the money on the basis of that evaluation, the universities of the South will get worse and the universities of the North will get better and better. Well, we in the 5 Star Movement think that no one has to stay behind, and that also applies to the universities of this country. That at our examination is not a decree to do, but it is a decree to break down the southern university system, and that is why we will strongly oppose it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u29	Madam President, I rise to speak on draft law No 974, converting Decree-Law No 69 of 21 June 2013, with urgent provisions for the relaunch of the economy. If I do not complete my speech, I would ask you to give me the opportunity to attach the written text to the proceedings of Parliament's proceedings. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, thousands, millions of individuals work, produce and save despite all that we can invent to harass, jam and discourage them. It is the natural vocation that pushes them; not only the thirst for money. Taste, pride to see your company thrive, buy credit, inspire trust in ever-increasing clientele, expand plants, embellish locations, constitute a spring of progress just as powerful as gain. If this were not the case, it would not be explained how there are entrepreneurs in their company who spend all their energy and invest all their capital to often portray profits far more modest than those they could certainly and comfortably obtain with other jobs. What you have just heard are the words spoken in Dogliani, 4,810 inhabitants, 50 kilometers from Cuneo, on September 15, 1960, at the undertaking of the Guerrino brothers. He was the second president of our Republic, the economist Luigi Einaudi. In my speech on 31 July last, in favour of draft law No 941 (the protection of the environment, health and work for enterprises of national strategic interest) I allowed myself to mention Epicarmo di Iblea and Francesco d'Assisi. The first admonished that to be wise it would be better to predict, rather than repent (better anticipate than react, we would say today); Francis, on the other hand, exhorts the hope that starting with the "doing what is necessary" will follow the "possible" and this "impossible." From my small corner of parliament, liberating with the first part of Article 67 of the Constitution (on responsibility for the nation), I have also dared a general concept: in a situation of perilous international competition and domination of the mechanistic and Cartesian society, to relaunch the economy it would be appropriate to promote a new model of sustainable development, through which work, health and enterprise can be synergistic and multiplicative. An ecological and holistic model to make development sustainable, both for present and future generations. Miguel de Cervantes, a European writer of Spanish origin, wrote between 1598 and 1615 in his famous "Don Quixote della Mancha" that Dulcinea a modest peasant of an unknown Spanish country district, 150 kilometers south-east of Madrid, the Toboso, becomes emblem of the detail that becomes universal. In fact, Miguel de Unamuno, another European philosopher of Spanish, liberal origin, 400 years later, just about Dulcinea wrote, paraphrasing, that only in detail can the universal be realized. An ancient Arabic saying, and many of you will know that in my land of Sicily the Arabs have passed through and have civilized not a little, states that a word, before being pronounced, should cross at least three doors: on the arc of the first door, there is written the exhortation to verify whether the word you are about to pronounce is true; on the second door, the request is to assess whether the word is necessary; at the third, you should consider whether it is kind. The present government, called broad understandings, with the conversion into law of the so-called decree of doing, proposes to us to cross those three doors, Mr. Representative of the Government, of truth, of necessity and of kindness. But the Government of broad understanding is a Dulcinea that claims to react by anticipating, predicting not to repent, to begin to do what is necessary, then what is possible and then to get to do the impossible. I have read the decree of doing, Mr. Representative of the Government, and I think, as Flaiano would say, there are many ways to get there, the best is to leave. Relaunching the economy is not only the burden and honor of the Government; indeed, entrepreneurs and managers, banks and international institutions, professional associations and workers, citizens and ruling classes, are the main actors, the strategic active subjects. Politics and governments are, fortunately, no longer the single universal code around which everything gravits. The government is doing the best thing: leaving. Unfortunately, with this departure, Mr. Representative of the Government, for reasons of time and political opportunities that I do not share, it will not be possible to give strength to the parliamentary debate. It will not be possible, for example, to intervene with proposals or criticisms about the freedom of citizens' spending. Under the pretext of the fight against money laundering every one of us is forced to slave to virtual money (bonifices, cheques and so on). Pensioners and small artisans of housekeeping are also obliged to pay banks the costs of managing their own small money exchanges. The 1,000 euro limit, imposed by Legislative Decree No 231 of 21 November 2007 and subsequent updates, until Legislative Decree No 169 of 19 September 2012, are really a kind of medieval toll to banks. Mr. Government representative, how can we relaunch the economy if domestic consumption is dominated by the interests of the banks? In this respect, I have tabled an amendment amending the limit for the traceability of payments to bring it from EUR 1,000 to EUR 3,500. Another example that I bring to debate in a sovereign Parliament is the problem of infrastructure in the South. How can the economy be revived if half of the country lacks central and strategic infrastructure for the production and circulation of goods, capital, people and scientific and technological knowledge? Why don't we think, Mr. Government representative, at the TAV of the Salento table? Mediterranean Europe, only for the countries of North Africa, concerns 500 million people, a market of capital, goods, people and civilizations equal to that of the European Union. And the South of Italy could become its strategic corridor. Instead, this government created the conditions contrary to this objective and blocked the growth and development of the South. In Italy, it is not the case that, through one particular case, the community is promoted, indeed, because some magistrates wake up late and to hit one hit everyone, we have no time and opportunity to discuss common goods in Parliament. Some magistrates may not know the difference between injury, error and wickedness, of which Aristotle already warns in his "Ethics," precisely to avoid the horrors of dialogue and political struggle reduced to court proceedings. I hope that that kindness of the third door of the Arabic saying is increasingly extended to the greatest number of citizens and citizens historically possible. In this hope, for now I am abstaining from voting on bill No 974, so-called 'do'. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u30	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, many of the rules contained in the so-called "decree of doing" had to be changed in the Senate Commissions. According to the wishes of the Government, the amended text will therefore have to be approved again in the Chamber of Deputies for the final yes by Friday 9 August. This acceleration of the parliamentary process shows a worrying haste, which can have potentially dangerous consequences given the amount of interventions provided for in the decree (which would be more appropriate to call "milleproroghe" for the amount of measures it contains) with which the government addresses very different aspects. Some rules are important. I am thinking of the one that reduces the powers of Equitalia, establishing the impregnability of the first house, whether this is the only good of the debtor or his habitual residence, or the one with which the delay of tax payments extends to 120 monthly instalments for those taxpayers who are unable to pay their debts to the tax because of the serious economic crisis. At this delicate moment in our country we hope that these measures will improve the very difficult relationship between tax and citizens. Other rules are certainly dictated by common sense, such as the liberalisation of wi-fi and the digitisation of public administration. Monetary compensation for public administration is finally introduced in the event of delays in the completion of administrative procedures. Other rules, on the other hand, were decidedly questionable and, fortunately, have been modified (I think of the rule that absolves the ceiling for the salaries of the state managers or the much criticized DURT, that is the single document of fiscal regularity). In the text of the "decree-law of doing" approved by the Chamber of Deputies it was established that the limit of 300,000 euros for the salaries of the state managers was extended to all companies that do not carry out services of general interest, even of economic importance. Therefore, important public companies such as Poste Italiane, Ferrovie e l'ANAS, which carry out services of general interest, were excluded from the roof: the great state boiards were saved, in the face of the continuous sacrifices required of ordinary citizens! It also appears that the denial adverb has not been included without the knowledge of the majority of the same Members present in the Budget Committee. In the view of the Members, this was a material error due to the pressing for the rapid adoption of a very complex text which, fortunately, the Senate has corrected. It would suffice this episode to show how the haste in approving this decree-law can have negative consequences and contrary to the objectives that, instead, it sets itself. So, it is legitimate to ask: what is the overall plan that comes out of this bill? Is it just about emerging standards, or is there even something deeper? What is the idea of a country that comes from this government proposal? A text that is too extensive, as excessive and sometimes presumptuous are the amendments that, instead of improving, create further confusion in the legislator called upon to convert this decree-law. Too many knots to melt. I would like to remind you that yesterday at 11 p.m., an amendment was adopted which allows local authorities to sell out public assets on the pretext of cashing out by paying the state 10% lace. I would like to remind you that this heritage does not belong exclusively to ourselves and that we have a duty to preserve it for future generations: public goods - as Settis says - are not a piggy bank to be plundered for contingent cash requirements. I would like to conclude by reminding you that "soon" and "well" rarely agree because, as Herodotus said, famous historian: haste generates error in everything. [[Applause from the Mixed and Mixed SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u32	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, yes, we are the usual method: there is everything and more in the measure. Paradoxically, when using this method, as well as contradictions and forcings, many deficiencies are detected. There are so many things missing that because of consistency, on a provision of this nature, they risk shouting revenge. These shortcomings determine the difficulties that today, in a more obvious way, but not only today, have emerged in the debate carried out by so many senators and senators who preceded me. Along with the comments on general political issues, we have highlighted the difficulty and suffering of a majority (I am not here to reiterate the things I share already mentioned) that obviously gets into fibrillation when it realizes that in a measure launched with the term "decree of doing" and that it aims to try to quickly set the economy in motion have been forgotten so many things that had to be done and, in a surreptitious way, some have been placed which would have deserved a specific focus of this House and of the whole Parliament, with the time due and with the precision deriving from the awareness of issues over which regulatory changes have consequences, sometimes, extremely negative. On some important yards dates have been set, in line - it is said - with the spirit of the measure. Some have been modified in the House, and I believe that, confirming precisely the goodness of our bicameral system, that we too must be responsible here in this House for important changes, because in some cases the changes made by the House (and it is not, I understand, my personal assessment) have been worse than the initial text proposed by the Government. Let us then exercise it, this function which the constituent Fathers, with foresight, incorporate into the democratic structure of our country. If it is necessary to put dates to make announcements, electoral ads, let's put them, as they say, at random... president. Please finish. CERVELLINI (Misto -SEL)... but if instead they have to serve to do some works, then these must be precise and sustainable, for example those related to the works that are expected for the metro of Rome, in order to avoid the loss of fundamental resources. We must ensure that the question of the modification of ANAS and the possible risk of privatisation are not dealt with in a surreptitious way in this decree, that the events of the Aurelia motorway are not entrusted to the company SAT and perhaps to the Region, without involving the local authorities of reference, that is the Province of Grosseto and the Municipality of Orbetello. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). I will definitely finish. Let us give ourselves time, let us try to get out of this blow which prevents this House from carrying out the function and tasks for which it was called not only by the Italian people, but by the indications of the Constituent. It has been said to move the seat of the Transport Authority to that of Turin, thus slowing down the action and increasing the costs of a fundamental reality in order to put hand in a strategic way and not to commercials to all the policies of the transports. Does that mean there's only high speed left? I'm afraid there's this temptation. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u34	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u35	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, British philosopher and writer Bertrand Russell said: The main cause of the problems is that in today's world stupid people are oversafe, while intelligent people are full of doubts. We are full of doubts about this decree that we would like to define "del lets": lets cover Italy with cement, once again, and refers once again to an infinite number of implementing decrees, from which we can really expect everything, especially really endless times. Once again, we try to put scraps on gigantic holes, rather than trying to intervene with long-term structural projects. Once again we pretend that Europe does not exist, pretending to ignore the need to respect and apply European directives. In fact, in these pages there are written things that will lead Europe to open up other infringement procedures against us: which means other very salty fines paid by all of us. The haste combined with the absence of doubts is a lethal combination for the country. You have promised centrality to Parliament, but the excuse that Italy is in emergency is to silence this place in the debate. We've been in emergency for years, at least 20 years of permanent emergency. You have approved and endured all kinds of intervention and reform manoeuvres: at this point, we should be not saved, but extrasalve; instead, we are still in emergency. That's really curious. I would remind you that Article 77 of the Constitution provides that there is a need for extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency in order to issue a decree-law: the Court of Cassation, which was not heard at the latest two months ago, said so. Here - instead - we do everything the contrary: the decree of the Government of the single party dictates the line; the media support unified networks that is done everything for the good of Italy and the Aules are reduced to an army of press-buttons, as you demonstrated last week when you corrected your vote after the government opinion. Anyone who instills doubt is accused of obstruction, or - worse - of exversion, or is blocked in the Chamber during speeches for fear of what he might say or for what he has just said. In a few days gigantic decrees are approved, and since in some cases - I am referring to the provision on the vote of political-mafia exchange - we realize that something is wrong, the important thing is not to correct, or write another decree, which will arrive next week. I think this is the moment of courage, and not because we are in emergency, but because it is time to take Italy out of the emergency. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u37	Mr President, this measure contains a number of speeches. It is undoubtedly also encyclopedic, as has been defined by some colleagues; however, it is better about 80 interventions, perhaps not decisive each in itself and not epochal (than those that will bind the surname of the proposer to a norm), but they are made, put into action and are useful, rather than the great reforms of dozens and dozens of articles on some sector, which, most of the time, do not reach the goal of approval and, then, sometimes, change everything not to change anything, as one great of our literature said. Therefore, this is a measure that - I believe - will help our country. It has been significantly modified by the House of Deputies and has also been amended by the Senate in the Commission, with a number of appropriate amendments. I would like to give a few examples: the reduction in salaries to the managers of the State's participants, with whom this category of people - undoubtedly of value, but also of very high cost to the country - have been involved in the sacrifices that are made to the whole country, in particular to those who depend on the State, with exceptions that we will see. It was also very important that some mistakes made in the past have been remedied: the infamous gabella on recreational boats, which in its time obtained the beautiful effect of greatly reducing tax revenues and destroying a sector, with great damage to employment and to everything around recreational boats, to their sale, maintenance and repair. In particular, there are a number of measures that introduce simplification; some of them are really simplification; in others simplification is mainly contained in the title and it is not as decisive as one might hope, but this is an area on which it is very important to move forward. It is not easy to move forward in this area, although it is clearly a positive thing for the country, for businesses and for the lives of every citizen and is at zero cost, on the contrary, simplification often involves less work on the part of the public administration. Therefore, it is always difficult to understand why no further action is taken. The reason, of course, is: there is a very strong resistance on the part of bureaucracy, not understood in an abstract sense - abstract or material things do not have their own will - but as a managerial and official class, in which there are very great professionalism but where, almost by nature, there is a great resistance to change, in particular, the abolition of unnecessary procedures, but which give power to some dark official - sometimes not even so obscure and often very well paid - to put a stamp, a signature, a bubble, a wax without which a company does not part or cannot be enlarged, or a private person cannot work. From this small power these subjects can therefore derive personal satisfaction or a better place within the various hierarchies in which these functions are structured; sometimes, there is even the temptation to yield to corruption. The latter is combated above all by reducing opportunities, especially with regard to public administration, to exercise an arbitrary power, which is sometimes exercised even radically by denying a certain permission to those who would be entitled to it - or vice versa - or, again, when the norms and decency are such as to make it impossible to deny an authorisation, making it wait four weeks, four months or four years before granting it. In the meantime, the company does not start, the jobs are not there and the company for a bit'satisfying and then renounces, or goes abroad, or closes because the initiative, having not been put in place, is no longer competitive. In this it was very important to avoid the madness of making the necessary documents even worse: I refer to the single document of contributory regularity (DURC), and to the single document of fiscal regularity (DURT), which are already species in itself. We know in fact how difficult it is for a company to obtain a payment these days; it would therefore be impossible for a company that has to pay another one to fulfill a whole series of obligations, which should touch on those who ensure tax and contributory evasion, certainly not on a private person who should take care of working, profiting and paying its suppliers. Even there were those who - and less bad that should represent the change for our country - proposed a further worsening, which would cause further unemployment and difficulties for those who somehow manage to continue working. We really must continue along this path of common sense; but alongside common sense the situation of the country is such that it calls for courage and determination, and on this path we will have to move forward in the future. We need a less exhilarating and less annoying tax, a more collaborative and less enemy bureaucracy of the citizen and of the enterprise, a justice also reliable, both in times and in the response, and not a justice that gives to identical situations opposite judgments, which makes totally random any trust that can be made on it, in order to really recreate in Italy an environment where you can do business, work, produce, create work and have good conscience that, if you have not done anything wrong, you do not risk prison or multimillionaire fines. Finally, I would like to make a couple of remarks. An agenda has been approved to ask the Government to act finally in the field of judicial geography; the Government has been asking for it for many months. The Ministry of Justice, in particular, responds positively to the fact of making a corrective decree. Some aspects of the reform of judicial geography, which we support from the outset, have been implemented by the previous Government, but in a totally inadequate and harmful way, both for the functioning of justice and for the territories. Since an opinion had already been given in the last parliamentary term, strong pressure has also been exerted in the current one and the government accepts the agendas and states that it can make the decree, the Minister of Justice - to which I also wish a prompt recovery from the accident that has been suffered - and in particular the structure that is around it must be given to do and issue this blessed decree; otherwise, one could have the strong suspicion that the fact is to be done: to arrive at the date of September 13, do nothing, and then say: Too bad, we wanted to do so many good things... No, it is not a sin, this decree must be done now; it can no longer be expected. Finally, from Piedmontese, I note with satisfaction the fact that the Commissions have approved the location of the seat of the Authority of the transports in the city of Turin: surely it is a city that with the transports has made the history of our Country. It is a position which must not in any way entail new costs - as the Budget Commission has also considered - in the context of decentralisation and partial reparation for an important region, Piedmont, which has suffered so much in the distribution of the financial flows that were to come to it. I shall end by thanking the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Budget, and in particular the rapporteurs, for the work they have done, which has been very demanding and intense and has certainly produced positive results. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u38	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u39	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say on the premise that it is difficult to be satisfied with measures of this kind, because of their content and the enormity of the issues they face; however, it is probably also difficult to deal with the complex situation that our country is experiencing. After all, the measures we take are a bit of a reflection of the complexity, difficulty and heterogeneity of the problems facing us. Probably also the synthesis by which the provision is defined to our examination as "decree of doing," the fact of giving him such a generic and all-embracing name gives the sense of the difficulties encountered by the Government, and that we reflect, in introducing a whole series of norms that have the objective of simplifying, speeding up and promoting the development of the Country. However, I would like to say that the Group of the Party of European Socialists, in particular the part which represents it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has shared the problem with the rest of the Group and the majority, has not ignored the problems raised today with the preliminary ruling, which we have convincedly rejected but which have been the subject of our attention for a long time. I would like to inform the House - the President of the Commission would do this better than I do - that we have dealt with these problems in the Commission by adopting a document, which has also been forwarded to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which will certainly lead to specific legislative production. Just as a summary of the work carried out, yesterday in the Commission we proposed and voted on an agenda, to which Mrs Lanzillotta also referred first, which denounces a number of problems and commits the Government to provide by urgent decrees, when admitted by the Constitution, according to the rules laid down by law, and on the basis of the actual need for legislative intervention and in proportion to the results pursued (of course it also contains other commitments). I say this in order to make it clear that we do not ignore the problem, which moreover - let us say it with transparency - belongs to this Government, just as it was to the previous Government and to the previous one. In essence, for some time now attention has been shifted to decree-laws, their size and content, as well as to the use of the maxims and trust, which has created the need, not to go back, but to respect more fully the content of the preceptive norms in this regard in the laws of the State and in the Constitution. Therefore, we are not faced with a real unconstitutionality, but with the need to return to the decree-law - Parliament and Government together - the content that is proper to it. We therefore hope that in the future there will no longer be such a complex situation, or that at least it will not be reflected in such complex measures as the one we are examining, which has also been difficult to deal with. I would like to take this opportunity to draw the House's attention to some of the rules on which we have been allowed to work and, at this point in my brief speech, I would also like to thank the Government, which has participated in the work with many of its representatives (and you, Mr De Vincenti, have always been present, along with other Undersecretaries). Therefore, such a demanding participation by the Government has also shown an openness not only to Parliament but, specifically, to the Senate because it did not block the treatment of the provision: in fact, although in the middle of the summer we had a decree before us, we had the opportunity to affect not only some aspects of the measure on which there was a common interest of Government and Senate, but also on topics that drew the attention of this branch of Parliament. I am particularly grateful for this. I would now like to draw the House's attention to some of the rules contained in the provision which was sent to us by the House and which have been amended at the request of the parliamentary groups and rapporteurs. I refer in particular to Article 29-a, which introduces transitional rules which were necessary. Of course, it was possible to include this amendment because the House had introduced an article 29-a whose possible application to the regime did not convince us because it would have a negative impact on incompatibility; instead, we wanted to maintain the incompatibility between the position of mayor and that of parliamentarians. There is no doubt, however, that we were in the presence of a rule which in itself denounced a problem, namely the need to insert a transitional provision, but which, in our opinion, the House had not solved in the best possible way. That is why we have proposed an amendment to Article 29-a, which responds to two needs: to provide a provisional response to the situations that have arisen and to those that were already in place at the time when the decree-law under discussion was adopted and, at the same time, to maintain the principles of incompatibility. Moreover, we have also done a job of cleaning up, technically positive, because, as we all know, the incompatibility was expected for the elective posts of a monocratic nature relative to the governing bodies of territorial authorities with a population of more than 20,000 inhabitants, while we have established that the incompatibility, which remains and, indeed, is sanctioned in a clear and definitive way, extends also to the mayors of Municipalities with a population of between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants: therefore there are no gaps, there are no holes, there is no possibility of different interpretation. We were also able to do the same with another amendment that the Senate wanted, and that the speakers and the majority of the Government wanted: the one relating to Article 29-b, related to Articles 54-a and 54-b. The Chamber had intervened on the functions of the Independent Commission for the Evaluation, Transparency and Integrity of Public Administrations (CIVIT), the authority that Parliament has recently created and to which we have assigned high-sounding functions: with the anti-corruption decree, in fact, we have made this body a reference point for anti-corruption activity valid not only in the internal relations of the national territory but also in the relations of Italy with other countries. To reduce today the meaning, the meaning but also the scope of CIVIT's competences, as the House had done, did not seem absolutely possible to us; we have introduced some correctives of the norm that are closely related to article 29-b. Certainly, in fact, there was a moment of friction between CIVIT and politics when the legislative decree was issued that was to regulate incompatibility: on that occasion, in fact, it was not taken into account the necessity - and this is a responsibility of Parliament and the Government, certainly not of CIVIT - to introduce some transitional rules, which we have therefore introduced in the measure under consideration, thus making possible today a more serene debate precisely because we have managed to improve the provisions relating to incompatibility (rebate: incompatibility, not inconferibility, having nothing to do with criminal convictions and anything else, but with situations already in place that had to be regulated). I would also like to say something about the roof of managers' salaries, because reading the newspapers the next morning is bad. Of course, in the Commission we have abolished the House's rule because it did not seem to us to be in line with the majority orientation, which is not to widen the meshes, but rather to tighten them and cut them, not to dilute them. We deleted it because the House's rule seemed more favourable and permissive to us, so from this point of view it did not meet our needs; however they did not reject any amendment of the Government (the Undersecretary here will give me reason from this point of view), so much so that the discussion on the possibility of making 25% cuts outside the cases governed by the spending review, introduced by the Government, developed within the majority. We have therefore tabled an amendment with the Leaders, not under pressure or orders from anyone, but by simplifying much that of the Government, giving a legislative solution that was born, had been diffused and that the majority, in its sovereignty and totality, has taken over. From this point of view I have therefore wanted to reiterate this concept, because if it is true that we acknowledge the representatives of the Government who accompanied us with the respect with which they supported our discussion, we want to reiterate here that there are no diktat or orders; also for this reason we chose the amendment of the Leaders, with the consent of all the Groups (including the League and the 5 Star Movement), instead of presenting an easy and comfortable mirror for the lards, as could be an amendment of the rapporteurs. So more respect, more positive and truthful communication outside. In conclusion, I would like to make a single comment on one aspect that I liked about this measure (although I would have liked to say more, since there are many positive points in the decree-law): even in measures that probably had to be dealt with more time, such as those of justice, one has had an eye on young people, and this makes one very good hope. The mobility grants, the national programme for the support of skilled and deserving students, the training internship, with all the limitations that these norms can have, tell the young people of our country that Parliament has married the objective of giving answers to the system that sees them as absolute protagonists. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups and the Senators Bernini and Bisinella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u40	Senator Palermo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u41	Madam President, I have to say that being a legislator is a great honour, but in some cases (and this is an example) it is also a source of great frustration. In the last few days we have worked hard on a text that we hope to conclude quickly and which represents a rather sad page of our life as legislators; it is also a bad signal for our decision-making system as a whole and in particular for its image that we give to the outside world. It is true that the objective is to relaunch the country, but with a decision-making process done in this way it seems to me rather difficult to succeed in doing so. We have worked so hard, and I must say that the quantity of work, in this measure in particular but not only, is now inversely proportional to its quality, and unfortunately there are no signs of repentance on this aspect. Having to borrow the categories of rhetoric already used by Francis Bacon, the pars destruens would be very easy against this measure and much more difficult than the construens; I try to limit myself to some notes of method, system, compared to these issues. In the text, and especially in the five - I repeat, five - dossiers of amendments that we have examined in the Commissions together, everything is found, as has already been pointed out by my fellow Members who spoke earlier. We find rules that have a dubious constitutional legitimacy: we go to adopt rules that will probably, sooner or later, be declared illegitimate. [[Applause from Senator Volpi.]] There are clearly inapplicable rules: a judge, interpreter or administrator may not find a way to apply some of these rules. There are rules that are simply not legal: they are mere exhortations that are good in illustrative relationships, with expressions of the type 'in order to obtain and similar, which with the normative language have nothing to do with. There are unreasonable rules: Mortata said that unreasonable norms are not legal norms. There are rules of such detail that I do not say they should be in a regulation, but perhaps not even, in some cases, in an annex to it. What is worse, then there are rules, especially those introduced by some amendments, which are a clear expression of corporate and particularistic interests, in the worst tradition we thought we had abandoned. With regard to the content of the rules, the list would be very long and I will not dwell on it, but there is really everything, from the end of life to the dough: there is really anything, and the criteria of homogeneity are at least doubtful. It is certainly necessary to re-launch competitiveness and it is important to try to do it in some way, but for sure the "what" is done is not indifferent to the "how" you do it: the end cannot always justify the means, especially if the means show the almost absolute guarantee that the end cannot be achieved, because they are not the right means. The regulatory technique is not a detail: this is a legislative House and we must Remind us. Even the good things, if done badly, are no longer good, while here we are actually taking this risk. It should be remembered that this measure was a "monster" measure already in its initial conception: to a large extent it did not present the constitutional requirements of necessity and urgency. Perhaps seven or eight decrees could have been done well, of which probably only one or two would have presented the requirements of necessity and urgency. In particular, already from the beginning the decree did not show any homogeneity, and we know that homogeneity is a requirement of constitutional legitimacy of the decree-laws: the Constitutional Court has remembered it a thousand times; the President of the Republic has remembered it and, more humbly, we have remembered it recently in the Sub-Committee for the opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of this House, trying to recall what the criteria of inspiration of a decree-law should be. In short, the measure before us seems to be designed, in reality, to contradict all these elements. From the initial monster decree, we then passed to the House, where about 2,000 amendments were tabled: we worked day and night for a week, with very long night sessions and, in the end, trust was placed. When the text arrived here in the Senate, it began again as before, as if nothing had happened at all, and the Government itself, which had put its trust in the text of the House, submitted some sixty amendments to the same text on which it had asked for trust. I mean, that doesn't work. The decree was born badly and got worse in the House, and even we here in the Senate, alas, except for very few commendable cases, have helped to worsen it further with amendments of every kind and form. In short, in order to arrive at the very short "pars construens" that I want to try to find in this text, I must say that this measure is the best demonstration of the need for profound reforms in our decision-making system, as well as of the distortions that the current bicameral system is experiencing. Perhaps this will help us to reflect in some way on the need to hurry with these reforms. There is also a second and last positive element that I would like to highlight. Whether or not confidence changes little: this decree in some way is an act of trust. We trust that the government has wagered that these are the necessary measures to be taken to revive the country. Reading the text and the amendments comes some doubt, but it is to be hoped that so. The government bets on it, and we in some way, having no other means at our disposal, have to trust the Commission in this respect. Some provisions are certainly positive, and that we cannot fail to act is shown by the fact that - today's news - Italian GDP has been falling for now eight consecutive quarters. Something must be done, and to date there is no alternative to this measure. For this reason, as was said once, we must be responsible to the country and approve the measure under consideration. In thanking the rapporteurs in particular for the great work they have done, I hope that Parliament will no longer find itself in these humiliating situations, having to face such decrees, and that the legislative technique will finally improve for the future. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, SCPI and Senator Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u42	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u43	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Senator Palermo how he will vote on this measure, but we will find that out in his Group's explanations of vote. I must confess to you, Mr President, that since I was a member of the House, I had prepared a mental outline for the speech that I thought was appropriate this morning, but I would like to put it aside because I would like to pay a fair tribute to the parliamentary debate. We cannot prepare our speeches solely on the basis of what we think a priori that we have to say or that we can say about a measure; I believe that parliamentary life is important if we listen to each other and if we are determined in our own positions also on the basis of the contradictory, the debates, the speeches that are being made in this House. Clearly I would have liked to say that the measure could be enriched by measures relating to the tax credit for the companies of the Mezzogiorno of Italy or aimed at helping the integration into the world of work of the young graduates of the Mezzogiorno; we have also worked a lot these days and these hours to bring important improvements to the text, because we wanted to introduce the territorial continuity of the islands of Sicily compared to the rest of the country, but also the ease of access to the credit. But today, after this debate, we have to ask ourselves what question Parliament has to answer. Today, I believe that the question to be answered by Parliament is as follows: has everything been done that could have been done? In the government decree, amended to the House and now arrived in the Senate, could more be done than the public accounts for how they are combined, compared to the propensity to growth? Could more be done? Well, we in the Group of the Great Autonomies and Freedoms have said that perhaps at the moment this is the best that can be done. We have agreed to turn our amendments into an agenda because we never want to make this Government forget what commitments have been made towards the Mezzogiorno of Italy; we will never fail to keep our constant assault on the commitments that this Government has made at the time of gaining confidence, but above all on what we believe to be a requirement for Italy as a whole. But from here to say it's all wrong, it's all bad, it takes. I have seen these days, from morning to evening, for hours and hours, wonderful parliamentary colleagues who have not seen the time of lunch, or the time of dinner or sleep in order to be able to produce excellent parliamentary work with respect to the conditions given; we must say so. The fact of constantly transmitting to the country the image of a parliamentary, institutional or political life, more widely described as a factor of negativity, is a mere lie. But when? Do we want the country to see politics only as the place of attention to the events of a political leader, or congresses in the home of another party, or where everything seems to be put in an alternative position, a body-to-body, man-to-man? No, that's not politics. In these weeks, in the Senate, I have lived days of parliamentary life absolutely intense and it may also be, Senator Palermo, that perhaps some norm is not perfect. The time factor has also been crucial to this measure and it is unfair and ungenerous not to take it into account. Yesterday President Letta celebrated his 100th day of government and Mrs Bulgarelli, in quoting Bertrand Russell and in self-defining herself intelligent (perhaps in an attempt to define all the other less intelligent), had to recognize that in a few days gigantic decrees arrived in Parliament. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] He admitted this and said it, Senator Bulgarelli: decrees-laws have arrived containing all that is possible to do to allow the possibility to build the revival of the economy. When we ask ourselves whether we have done everything possible, everything we could do with the data at our disposal, I still say yes, Madam President, because in the first 100 days we had to make sense and set the right course, in order to get production back on track and raise the country. If it does not resume production, there will be no employment, there will be no tax revenue for the state, there will be no prospect and there will be no future. Then, all the points contained in the measure at our examination - which concern simplification, university or DURT - which may seem uneven among them, have the only objective of restarting the country's production and of allowing Italy to engage the growth that is beginning to register at European and global level. To make that happen, we must do well and soon. We have had two splendid rapporteurs, who have been able, with patience and determination, to put together the urges that rightly came from parliamentary groups or politicians, taken by the anxiety to do good for their territory or for their own people. Does this, then, deserve to be demolished in the parliamentary debate? No, he doesn't deserve it. Today I will go home happy: if the provision under consideration becomes law, I will be happy and I will be able to look into the face of my people, in my territory, because I can tell them that I have done what was possible at this particular moment. And I hope that each of us can do the same. In a Parliament that has become the Parliament of quotations - and I hope that they are not just a cover to cover the personal voids, because sometimes we refer to the phrases of others because we do not know how to process them - I remember that, when someone, in a very good way, has been able to ask himself "For who is ringing the bell?"It has been said that the bell rings for each of us. Therefore, I think that each of the parliamentarians who sits in these high ranks of the Senate of the Italian Republic must always have in their hearts and attitudes the idea that they are working for the nation and for the citizens. We must have love for our mission and for what we can do: we must keep this in mind also for the future. Perhaps we could have avoided some of the blunders even in the procedure for the formation of the measure, but I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: do we want to take off the mask? Do we finally want to stop paying extra tribute to Pirandello? Once we have arrived here in this Chamber, do we have to recite the role of the majority or the role of the opposition, feeling obliged, regardless, to say the worst possible thing about the opponent or the measures under consideration, just because they are not emanating from their own political side? The moment is so important for our country and so delicate, even from the political point of view, I do not hide it, that it is absolutely necessary that everyone feels part, even in cents, of the overall institutional system. We are all called to a sense of extraordinary responsibility, because extraordinary are the problems we are experiencing. We will have served our young people and our desperate unemployed, we will have really served our country if we have given the heart and soul to the measure under consideration. I would therefore like to wish my colleagues in all parts of the Chamber a further good job, because much work is still waiting for us and I hope that we will be able to do so with the right heart, with the right support and, above all, with the ideas that can strengthen our economy and our future. [[Applause from the LAG, PdL and M5S groups and Senator Santini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u44	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u45	Madam President, unfortunately, this "decree of doing" continues to weaken the single text on safety at work: nothing but commitment to achieving zero risk! Beyond the propaganda that is now repeating itself always the same, year after year, with the numbers of deaths and accidents at work, which would have fallen, the truth unfortunately remains one only and that is that the working environment continues to be also cause of tragedies (deaths, diseases and infirmities) that cause so much suffering in the families that suffer and mark their lives forever. It is not possible to listen to the words of colleagues who, on the one hand, say that they are attentive to the issue of safety at work and, on the other hand, with these measures weaken the single text in this area, which, precisely because of the many changes to which it has been submitted, is in serious danger of failing, as has already been the case with Legislative Decree No 626 of 1994. My experience, colleagues, leads me to say that, when, for a country, for a company, security becomes an unbearable burden and not a moral duty or civilization, when the fate of workers or of a territory threatens to return to being overpowered in the hands of the bosses, then everything can become regression: cultural, political, civil and environmental. So, if politics really wants to do it, let it end with weakening safety at work, or rather strengthen it. That would be a good thing, a good sign for the country and its devastated territories, and of course for its citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u46	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to make a slightly different speech, sui generis than this morning's normal. Yesterday morning I went to the usual newsstand where I have been buying newspapers for years now and I met a lady I have known well for a long time, usually very polite and discreet, who addressed me an observation: you never work all year long, you started working in August. I did not understand if it was a question dictated by popular wisdom or a provocation, but I did make a reflection. The first days of August, Madam President, evoke holidays, rest: the honest worker only waits for the family and spend a few days together; the working citizen awaits the prize, the holidays, the holidays. But August also evokes exhausting tails, traffic jammed and traffic jams. It is August also for the Government, because it seems that the Executive is obliged to push on the accelerator to convert to law in a few days, between July and early August, precisely several decrees (to be precise seven), penalty their decadence. Seven measures born under the assumption of necessity and urgency, as provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution: I would say that this is a rule rather gaseously, in order to adapt it to the need, and not just as Article 77 would wish. Seven measures - we have seen it with those approved so far - which deserved more respect, more time, more attention for the subjects dealt with, for the historical-economic moment in which they are contextualized and for the contribution of the opposition, which can give much: I have already said in another speech, sometimes the opposition gives a lot of free suggestions. But in August holidays also evoke, to those who like to go to the sea, fishing and you, Madam President, teach me that in the turbid you fish better. What better opportunity to deal with all this jam of measures and to try to take them out in a short time if not with the management of this institutional jam, with this confusion, with this haste, with these races to approve the decrees? Exactly, Madam President, fishing in the turbid. It has been expressed several times by everyone: by President Letta to the Ministers, to the authoritative representatives of the majority. From 21 July to 2 September, if not converted into law by Parliament, they all lapse. Indeed, we have also approved it and we can assure you, listeners from home, that never what has been more useless, wrong and even, in some ways, harmful. Little time to argue. There is little time for amendments. Very little or almost nothing for the search for financial cover. Madam President, a rain of amendments to both the House and the Senate. A minister who said: Since we have a very complicated timetable before the summer break and it is not possible to examine 800 amendments, on behalf of the Government I raise the question of trust. I hope the same thing doesn't happen here in the Senate. I'm getting a little chilly, but I hope it doesn't. The Group of the North League has done an excellent job, both in the Chamber and in the Senate, with a Carthusian commitment, in the evaluation of both the original text and the one fired by the Chamber itself. In this work, Madam President, many knots have come to the comb: some more or less evident "marchetina" skilfully inserted between the folds of some amendments and some "marchetina" that was so big and clearly that, to hide it, it was not enough 800 meters of road to complete. Our amendments were and are geared to solving problems and, if listened to and transposed, would have brought resources to this country, without the imposition of new taxes and therefore probably to cover some of the amendments: cutting the expenditure of this state, dieting public accounts, applying standard costs, fiscal federalism. On the other hand, new recruitments on the one hand and redundancies on the other. How strange this country, Madam President! Too easy to use the principle of communicating vessels also in this field: better new assumptions. They create consensus and God knows how much this President-in-Office of the Council needs it. Well, Madam President, the introductory report that the Government has made to the decree is a waste of time. The measure within it provides for everything and more. I personally am always doubtful about omnibus measures: it puts in a bit of everything. Nice soup, Madam President. In fact, I would say a good past, because in the soup at least carrots and potatoes are still able to distinguish. The text developed has no polar star for the conditions of this country. Nor is it useful to foster a recovery oriented towards the preservation of the industrial fabric, the social state, the dynamics between categories and the relations between banks and small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it is useful to comply with the dictates of the European Commission, the Franco-German axis. The effects of the crisis that we are going through cannot be fully understood and, therefore, counteracted if we do not take into account the specificity of the Italian economic fabric, characterized by the prevailing presence of small enterprises with a strongly territorial vocation, which have always been the driving force of the country's economy. These enterprises are today in a state of deep suffering. Many of them are now doomed to closure because of the lack of liquidity they have: difficulties due to access to bank credit and the very strong fiscal oppression that is among the highest in Europe. A serious policy of relaunching the Italian productive sector cannot therefore be without an incisive action in support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that tackle in a structural way the greatest obstacles to their growth, first of all access to credit, not least the very heavy bureaucracy. There is the problem of youth unemployment, exodus, agriculture, the elderly: problems that have just been touched or not touched. I shall conclude my speech by analyzing the decree-law as a whole. It does not solve any of the problems faced; it changes the name and form of the problems themselves, postponing the solution to better times. It has been called the "decree of doing," but with this way of law-making there will unfortunately be no better times. The existing problems will remain, only more dramatically aggravated, amplified and enchanted. The decree of doing should have become the decree of doing more, of doing good and of letting those who are willing and capable do it. President Letta sees the light at the end of the tunnel, but, Madam President, the light is the light placed on the miner's helmet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). And if you go into the tunnel during the lunch break that light won't see you again. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Giannini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, choosing and deciding is what is being asked of a responsible government in an emergency situation and that is what good policy should do in any case, even in non-emergency situations. The overall vision of this very heterogeneous, very complicated decree-law (I too take the opportunity to thank the rapporteurs for the complex work they have done) leads, however, to a reasonable hope and to a cautious optimism: the hope of a political turning point in the selection of priorities for intervention and the optimism that not on this occasion, ahinoi, but in the future to it can follow the allocation of adequate resources. Here: school, university, research, cultural heritage, sports find adequate space in the "decree of doing." It was a very long-awaited but not obvious fact, and so I would like to stress the political importance of it. As we believe, the effort to integrate education and culture into the national context with an eye to the role of local and territorial self-government in the management of certain processes and in the European dimension is worthwhile. I would like to make a few very quick examples which seem emblematic to me. Regions and local authorities are directly involved in the management of funds for the safety of school buildings, one of the hot topics of the Italian school, Article 18, with a guarantee measure - respect for territorial priorities - and rationalization, with the explicit aim therefore to avoid duplication of interventions and consequent waste of resources. Again. Article 9 provides for the replacement power of the Government in the event of inertia or default of the public administrations responsible for the interventions to burden the European Structural Funds and also provides for acceleration measures. Therefore, it is an article that responds to our systemic weakness that we know very well in the use of the Structural Funds. In short, for each euro 40 cents return to Rome, which penalizes us very much on the level of comparison with the other Member States and penalizes us very much in terms of the development and internal growth of the country. However, an analytical examination, also here as elsewhere in the beginning of this parliamentary term, reveals lights and shadows which I believe it is our duty to recall. Let's start with the lights, which are better seen. Article 58, paragraph 1, anticipates by a year the possibility for universities and research institutions to hire 50% of the turnover of retirement in place, and we all know that research and innovation make it much better young brains than more mature brains. In my opinion, this is perhaps the most important measure of power in the whole chapter, Chapter III, which contains "Measures in education, universities and research." The expectations on this decree-law for the higher education sector were really very high, legitimately very high, because the program of government of the university and the research of the minister Carrozza was presented and announced a little more than a month ago before the Joint Commissions Chamber and Senate with the assumption of very precise commitments: to restore the 300 million euros that are missing in the already exhausted fund of ordinary financing (I remember that all the university system is financed with approximately 6.5 billion euros), decreased by 14% over the last five years, and to devote this quota to the valorization of the merit of the students, to help them choose their university and therefore to move to a country that is increasingly static in space, social scale and generational. Here, we praised this noble intention, inside and outside the parliamentary classrooms; we continue to think that, if translated into legislative and executive acts, it can truly represent (or perhaps better to say that it would represent) a historical turning point and a genuine reversal of march compared to those decades of neglect compared to the world of education, culture and research that have impoverished the future of a generation of Italians. Today, however, allow me to say that this applause I feel to soften it, because other legislative measures contained in the decree from doing seem to betray this principle and have generated motivated alarm. The national scholarship programme, which is in itself very important and very noble, provided for in the decree will not receive additional funding, and let me say that the prize in every field and in any case is one more, is not one of which, otherwise, is not a prize. In a first version of the text released to the Chamber, in article 59- bis, it was even financed with about 250 million from the premium fund that the law has now guaranteed for some years (even since 2008) to deserving universities. I do not want to tedious the heroic surviving colleagues in this House by focusing on technicalities, but it is like saying that in order to reward the credit of students, resources are being taken away from their universities, which are already struggling with ordinary sustainability. This measure as it was, therefore, was completely unacceptable for simple reasons which I list: firstly, because it disavowed in fact the meritorious principle on which the Government and Parliament committed themselves; secondly, because it contradicted the commitment to refinance education and research expressed in public offices by President Letta and Minister Carrozza. The Civic Choice Group immediately proposed the remodulation, if not the repeal, of Article 59-a and supported the remodulation of Article 60, the principle of which we believe to be correct: that is, a progressive increase in the premium rate for virtuous universities. Therefore, today we note that the acceptance of our proposals has prevented the danger of a demagogic drift by restoring the clear distinction between a rhetoric of merit, of which we have felt a lot for a long time and also in these times, and a true culture and practice of merit, of which we desperately need. Therefore, in addition to this awareness, we hope that in the future there will also be more courage to move from noble principles to appropriate legislative acts. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and the senators Bernini and Mussini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u50	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u51	Madam President, while the companies, the supporting structure, the locomotive of our economy, disintegrate, or rather, to put it in clear language, close and there is no entrepreneur who is not harassed by the amletic doubt, who will become the torment of this summer, rest or relocation, while the workers of all the country - those left, I mean - are in almost perennial agitation and still more and more discontented, while three out of ten young people are NEET (do not go to school or seek a job), comes yet another omnibus decree and with it the illusion that it can be the right and concrete opportunity to resolve everything and bring us out of the crisis. Enthusiasm was so much to give him the nickname "decree of doing," even if, thinking about the effects that it will have concretely, it might have been more appropriate to call it "decree of doing, saying, kissing, letter and will," to find at least a bit of comfort in irony. Unfortunately, this decree does not contain any major structural and decisive measures, no real reduction in waste in the public administration, no convincing industrial plan, no intervention on the elimination of conflicts of interest, no new energy programme, no measures for the environment, but about one hundred measures with very uncertain margins that can not be the miraculous cure to save a seriously ill country, but only provide a colorful maquillage to make the dead more presentable. Some good proposals, to be honest, there is. Some even in the Five Star style. I am referring, for example, to infrastructure measures. The Government recovers resources prepared for the great works not usable in the immediate (such as the bridge on the Strait of Messina, that never will be done but continues to absorb resources, the Third Ligurian Pass and the line of High speed Turin-Lyon) and withdraws a fund of 2 billion euros in order to finance some infrastructures immediately cantierabile, that they should immediately create places of work, so as to allow the continuity of yards already in course in 2013, like the third line of the Metro to Rome or the Quadrilatero in the Marche, that will not remain - it is hoped - unfinished work. This seems to me to be diverting funds to profit, and I appreciate it. Interventions have been promoted to facilitate the credit of the enterprises thanks also to the increase of the Guarantee Fund and the recourse to the Cassa depositi e loani; they encourage the payments to the enterprises by the public administration and they place a brake on the overpower of Equitalia with the non foreclosure of the first house and the sheds and the raising of the threshold of credit for the expropriation. An attempt is made to remedy the backwardness of civil justice, especially in the court of appeal and in cassation, with the recruitment of many magistrates. The mandatory mediation, which had been successful, was re-proposed, but was then blocked by the Constitutional Court. It would seem with conviction that the digital agenda is being launched and that a number of unnecessary certifications and procedures are being eliminated in the health sector. Thanks to INAIL's intervention, a €100 million school building plan is also being prepared, as well as the allocation of funds for the preparation of scholarships and new recruitment of researchers. We have also moved in the field of safety at work, intervening directly on the legislative decree 9 April 2008, n. 81, which has always caused so many controversy since its advent, in 2008 precisely. I remember that it was launched on the last day of the Prodi Government, in haste and in fury and full of rifts; within a year there was the first revision and it created many interpretative doubts. But precisely in this decree, perhaps because I am in the sector, I think the greatest opportunity is missed. Many would have been merely formal obligations to be eliminated in a clear and painless way, without prejudice to anyone and without touching on the substantive aspects of safety, the effectiveness of which would have been strengthened on the contrary, as time and resources would have been used to ensure the supreme good, constituted by the protection of the health and safety of the workers, and not to recite a charade. The simplifications to which I refer and which I would have liked to refer concern - precisely - the figure of the competent doctor, as defined by the combined provisions of Article 2 and Article 38 of the aforementioned decree, which has a fundamental role for the protection of the health and safety of workers and to which the law at present attributes the obligation of administrative and bureaucratic obligations that have nothing to do with prevention in the workplace. In short, I would have liked it to have really been engraved decisively, according to the "less paper and more security" principle. Among these obligations, the failure to approve an amendment which I had brought to the Commission yesterday seemed unreasonable to me. Why not delete Annex 3B annexed to Article 40 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008, which only leads to the inclusion of unnecessary data, which cannot be used from an epidemiological point of view and which do not safeguard health? What's behind it? What interest? As for the proposed method, it is not up to the times, but almost a use of the bullet. I wonder: the doctor of the job would have had the opportunity to have more room to go back to being a doctor and to act as a global consultant in the company; instead, he will spend this summer entering data, one by one, data that will not be usable by anyone, data already in possession of the public administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. FUCKSIA (M5S). I would point out that this morning, too, Senator Bernini suggested that we should not ask citizens and companies for unnecessary obligations. I say to myself, why this? But let's pretend that's how we keep making sure when we don't. We have done work not as a simplification, but we have proposed ourselves as an office of complications of simple things. We have introduced the concept of risk when there is no risk or when it is low. When is the risk low? We go to a company to change a light bulb: a forklift passes and we have the accident. So, let's ask ourselves if the risk was low or not. Can 30 days or 29 really change a risk, a health profile? But let's keep it up. Let's keep saying it's okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish, please. FUCKSIA (M5S). As the butler said to the Marquise, everything was fine at the castle, except for a very small accident, the death of the horse. When asked by the lady, the servant explained that death had taken place by asphyxiation during the stable fire, but other than that... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caridi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u53	Gentlemen of the Government, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Letta Government, to which we have given the confidence, was born with the primary and fundamental objective of offering immediate and decisive answers starting from the dramatic economic and social crisis that the country lived - and lives - daily. It is therefore understood that the adoption of Law No 974 is of considerable economic and political importance. It is clear that having to deal with the measure in the time and the manner in which we have come to talk about it today in this House is causing some difficulty. I say this frankly: the frankness of the requests that come to me daily not only from my land, Calabria, that needs further and more incisive answers, but also from every part of our country cannot induce me to silence. The shouts of alarm coming from the territory, from the representative organizations, from public and private institutions, from the many mayors and representatives of the institutions must shake our conscience and strengthen the awareness of being political men engaged in institutions at the service of the people. From this point of view, there are no political or party barriers, and in this House it is not the sterile polemic that must prevail, but the ability to carry out actions to return to the growth of this glorious country! Parliament must not be a plug for the decisions that the government takes, nor can it represent the terminal of choices dropped from above: it must be the place of the Italians, without distinction, where we can bring the demands of our territories, of the thousands of citizens who have given me the consent accompanying my political history to date, like so many of you. There are some positive points in the measure that go in the right direction. Only a few significant amendments have been adopted for companies, infrastructure and administrative, fiscal and justice simplification, but more rapid and more determination is needed in addressing the difficulties of the Italian people. Particular attention should be paid to the actions promoted for the revitalization of infrastructure, such as the unblocking of construction sites and the fund for small municipalities, the simplifications in the field of construction and DURC. On the credit front, however, despite the considerable resources available to small and medium-sized enterprises, I fear that some of the problems will be addressed. Most of today's companies, rather than making new investments, need to consolidate their liabilities and the banking system does not adequately support the Italian production fabric. Let us be clear: in view of the State's aid to banks in difficulty, credit institutions turn to the other side when entrepreneurs and craftsmen turn to them for help. This is an unsustainable situation for which there is a need to intervene on the banks and on the associations representing them. In my opinion, a separate consideration deserves to be given to measures to protect the consumer. Today's crisis, in fact, is more and more the crisis of consumption: every month thousands of shops close and many commercial activities fail. Consumers, families, in view of the reduction in purchasing capacity suffered in recent years, are struggling to make new purchases and are rediscovering various forms of solidarity even family. In all this it is foreseeable to think of an increase of the ability to income of the families? I would say no, according to rising data on unemployment or spending containment measures. So we need to act on the cost reduction for consumers. We already pay the price of non-competition from public services to insurance, from transport to banking services, and the rates that users pay are constantly increasing. We expect significant reductions in tariffs for vulnerable groups: for pensioners, for large families or for young couples. Let's choose where to start, but let's do it. Finally, with regard to the rules contained in the justice package, there are some issues which concern the speeding up of pending proceedings with the inclusion of new figures, the re-use of mandatory mediation and other actions. But now it's time to organize a wider reinterpretation. Effective and efficient justice generates economy. The events of the last hours now indicate the line to follow, which is that of breaking old patterns and discontinuity with the past. We can no longer ignore anything, that nothing happens to safeguard the future of a government. Today we are debating the future and democracy of our country. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u54	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure before the Assembly today aims to propose to the country, starting from the productive subjects, a set of rules capable of setting in motion those resources, skills and skills that are now indispensable to our country in order to emerge from the serious economic and industrial crisis in which it finds itself. It is a crisis of youth unemployment rates that are no longer tolerable, of a growing gap between North and South, of difficulties in accessing credit and of the gradual retreat of our productive fabric, mostly of medium-sized, small and very small enterprises. It is a complex and complex measure. Some have called it contemptuously omnibus, but it does not lose its basic mission, which is to intervene on the pillars of a possible recovery, such as the greater effectiveness of the leverage of credit, the impulse to infrastructure investments, the administrative simplifications and the speed of civil justice, just to remind some of them. To the criticisms made by the opposition colleagues and contained in the minority report, we respond that, in order to correctly judge the scope of this measure, it must be included in the broader legislative initiative that the Government has launched. This is a package of measures and measures all aimed at relaunching the economy: for example the Decree-Law on employment, measures on public administration debt payments, incentives for building renovations and energy efficiency of buildings. They are all measures of doing: of course, of doing in the given conditions, in the given compatibility, in compliance with the commitments made. Much has been said about the substance of the measure. I would like to emphasise in particular the measures relating to development policies; improving access to the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises and strengthening the resources for the Fund itself, in order to enable the greatest number of enterprises to access it; reactivation of the Sabatini law on soft-rate financing for the purchase of machinery and equipment, but also - as the rapporteur has already said - of intangible assets; refinancing of development contracts also for those territorial realities which have so far been without such facilities; measures to promote competition in energy markets; measures to relaunch infrastructure through the strengthening of the bankability of projects to be carried out in public and private partnership; measures to unblock construction sites, making the best use of the resources already allocated for works that are immediately arable, and I am thinking of the funds for the Mezzogiorno. They are all measures of doing that have seen a deep commitment from before the House and then the Senate and the Commissions - I too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the valuable, accurate and effective work they have done - to improve the text produced by the Government and also to correct some parts from the same House. I refer to the question of trusts, to the cancellation of the DURT, to the measure, proudly proposed yesterday, of reducing the salaries of managers of public companies, to that of improving the school building that entrusts to the Municipalities the commissioner power that finally allows them to spend the resources in certain times by 2014; I am still referring to the measures for the EXPO of Milan of 2015, the most convinced start of the Digital Agenda, thanks to the symbol rule that cancels the use of fax and relaunches the e-mail, in addition to all other interventions such as those of change of governance for the Digital Agenda. I would also like to mention two small norms of civilization, first of all the one that favours the acquisition of citizenship for children born in Italy from foreign parents, ensuring that the failures attributable to parents or to public administration are not an obstacle to this objective. In addition, I recall the agenda received by the Government regarding compassionate care in favour of people suffering from an inauspicious outcome. There are still many measures that have been mentioned, in particular those relating to support for school, research, university, the relaunch of scholarships for capable and deserving students. Certainly a lot has been done, but it has not been done. We have committed the Government to improve the text of this decree in the successive measures that will be enacted - I am thinking of the bill of stability - especially with regard to measures that can facilitate employment, such as the simplification of the payment of VAT for subcontracting companies and export companies, the relaunch of the Infrastructure Agency, which are currently blocking many investments, the discipline of local broadcasters or, again, measures to prevent externalizations in the school sector from becoming an occasion for unemployment. In conclusion, this measure, beyond all criticism, if viewed with objective eyes, is useful and is, above all, an integral part of an overall plan of the Led Government that must continue. In recent weeks, as shown by the data on production and even some sign of confidence of the Italians, it is possible to see first signs of recovery, certainly weak and contradictory. But we have a duty to do our part, we have a duty to do everything we can to engage in this recovery, and I believe that the decree that we are going to convert into law today certainly goes in this direction. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u56	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u57	The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, approved changes and additions to the current timetable. As regards the follow-up to the examination of the Decree-Law on economic matters, the Conference of Heads of Group took note of the commitment of all Groups to withdraw a large number of amendments. However, in the light of the other issues to be addressed during the week (urgency declaration on the draft electoral law, decree-law on the execution of the sentence, already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies, ratifications of international agreements), the timetable provides for the extension of the afternoon sessions until 2 p.m. and the advance of the afternoon sessions at 3 p.m., with the Presidency being given the opportunity to assess the closing time of the latter in relation to the progress of the proceedings. The timing quota must be strictly respected; to this end disposals have been agreed between the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u58	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met this morning, with the presence of the Vice-Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current calendar: [[Tuesday 6 August ant. h. 9,30 - Following the bill n. 974 - Decree-Law n. 69, with urgent provisions for the revival of the economy (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 20 August) - Statement of urgency, pursuant to Article 77, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, for the draft law n. 356, 396, 406, 432, 559, 674 and 685 reform of the electoral law -Legislation no. 896-B - Decree-Law No. 78, execution of the sentence (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 31 August) - Ratifications of international agreements " " pom. h. 15 Wednesday 7" ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 15 Thursday 8 " ant. h. 9,30-14 " " " pom. h. 15 Friday 9" ant. h. 9,30]] Amendments to draft law No 896-B (Decree-Law implementing the sentence) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Tuesday 6 August. The timetable can be supplemented by the conduct of Question No 42, Nugnes and others, on the illicit disposal of waste in Campania as well as by the examination of documents defined by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 974 (Decree-Law No 69, laying down urgent provisions for the relaunch of the economy) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 43' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 24' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 896-B (Decree-Law No 78, execution of sentence) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) (*) [[Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 1 h. Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 32' PdL 27' M5S 25' SCpI 10' LN-Aut 43' Mixed 15' GAL 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 14' Dissentents 5' (*) The time distribution takes into account transfers agreed between the Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u61	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, 32 people are atrociously killed by fire, exploded, torn, charred, torn to life in the massacre of Viareggio station four years ago. On the Net you can find the stories of all of them, their hopes, their aspirations, their plans for the future. They went to read, to listen, and I invite all of you to do so to better feel ourselves partakers of this suffering, of so much suffering. All of them are gone today. Whoever remains today does not give himself peace and asks for truth and justice. The families of the victims are asking the institutions for answers. The families of the victims no longer want to hear that the tragedy where 32 people died was simply a very unpleasant episode. The massacre of Viareggio station was possible and had to be avoided. The people in question, many whole families, innocent children and girls, died instantly and many of them suffered the pain of hell for days and days before closing their eyes permanently. Atrocity. The incident of Viareggio happened because there were very serious omissions in the summits of Ferrovie dello Stato, so much so that as many as 32 managers, including the managing director of the group Ferrovie dello Stato, engineer Mauro Moretti, were sent back to trial. The crimes challenged by the prosecutor are: manslaughter, manslaughter and murder and, again, multiple injuries. Some defendants were also challenged by breaches of the safety rules at work. Today, a demonstration in Rome, in front of Trenitalia, will remember the victims of the railway disaster and will ask that engineer Mauro Moretti not be confirmed again in his assignment. that in addition every year brings him as much as 870,000 euros in compensation. In Viareggio, that night of June 29, 2009 was not a fatality. That massacre happened because those who had to watch did not watch, because those who were called to direct the Railways did not evaluate and did not verify the consequences of the cuts to the maintenance of lines and cars. In the field of rail transport, the logic of mere profit and privatisation has led to a reduction of the services offered, to cuts in commuter trains and at the same time to give money to rain at high speed: it is so important to invest so many resources on Frecciarossa trains when from 2007 to today... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. Mr Paglini (M5S). I'll ask you for a minute, just for these people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. Mr Paglini (M5S). All right, Madam President. I was saying that we of the 5 Star Movement believe that those who have wrong must pay and not instead be appointed knight of the work, appoint never worse conferred, as happened to engineer Moretti shortly after the massacre of Viareggio. The people of Viareggio ask for justice and truth and we of the 5 Star Movement firmly ask that who must be responsible and must take important positions... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude the sentence. Mr Paglini (M5S). Thank you, Madam President, that's okay. The citizens heard. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u64	MUSSINI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to bring to everyone's attention something that has happened in my city, Reggio Emilia. The context is an escalation of burnings of arson origin that has been taking place since November last year. The last one happened in the night between Thursday and Friday to the detriment of an employee of a construction company, a company that had already suffered other attacks of this type. The owner of this company is the son of Gaetano Blasco, owner of the company Costruzioni Gb, on whose construction site was set fire to some fixtures in the night between Monday and Tuesday last week; the same Gaetano Blasco arrested and then exonerated in the investigation called "Scacco matto" for Mafia association, brother of Salvatore Blasco killed in 2004 in the feud between Cosche Grande Aracri and Dragon. The fact that I want to bring to the attention is that in this affair a group of very young reporters of the school newspaper "Cortocircuito" started an inquiry: they went to the place, to public ground, they went to the yard, they took some shots and they saw themselves threatening with phrases of the type: "If I see something in the newspaper I come looking for you home"; they were attacked with manatas to the equipment and followed by a van after they had left the yard. Such threats cannot go unnoticed, all the more so if they are destined for young people who decide to put themselves at stake in a battle of legality and civilization that must, rightly, start from the new generations. We therefore ask the Minister of the Interior and the Government to act quickly to shed light on this umpteenth example of phenomena in the smell of mafia, which unfortunately are increasingly frequent in all the regions of Italy, and to do so by also providing the bodies responsible for the control and investigation of all the right tools to carry out this work. In conclusion, I wish to express on behalf of the 5 Star Movement the solidarity to all the boys and girls of the school newspaper "Cortocircuito" of Reggio Emilia, as well as to all the boys who throughout Italy are committed to talking about mafia. Paolo Borsellino said: "Speak of the Mafia. Talk about it on the radio, on television, in the newspapers. But talk about it, aware of the fact that silence and omerta are its main allies. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Russo and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u65	I think it's as important as you pointed out, Senator Mussini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u68	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, today, 6 August, the 150th anniversary of the Pietrarsa massacre is celebrated, that is, the office of the Savoy Bersaglieri to the detriment of unarmed workers: seven were killed and another 20 were wounded. Let's get this straight. In October 1839 the Naples-Portici railway route was inaugurated: only 7.5 kilometers, but the first of Italy. It was the crowning of a full-bodied industrial plan - someone should learn from the past - destined to be free from British technological dependence: it was 1839 and we looked long! It was born in 1837, right by the sea, the Real Opificio di Pietrarsa, which produced cast iron products, but, above all, steam engines and locomotives. In a short time Pietrarsa became the first industrial nucleus of the Peninsula, preceding - and several years - giants such as FIAT, Breda and Ansaldo. At the moment of its greatest splendour the Opificio gave work to 1,050 people: just to understand, the Ansaldo of Genoa occupied 480 workers. Changing the political scenarios, with the Savoia to understand us, it was decided - oh, but look at it - to privatise Pietrarsa, selling it - oh, but look at it - to such a Jacopo Draft: it was the beginning of the end. The new owner reduced the wages of the workers, bringing it from 35 to 30 grain a day. In short, with a drastic dismissal policy of 850 civil servants, only half of them remained. The mood of the workers was powerful, until it arrived on August 6, 1863. Faced with the umpteenth abuse of the property, at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, someone resonated the bell of the factory: several hundred workers, abandoned their jobs, gathered in the yard, shouted and said disapproval of the new property. Scared, Draft rushed to request the intervention of the Bersaglieri. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). The military, in a short time, came before the plant and, after crossing the gate, bayonets in reed, threw themselves on the workers, beating cracks and shooting at a man's height. On that hot afternoon agostan died seven workers. Today in Portici, at the Museum of Pietrarsa, we remember the 150 years of that first demonstration of workers' protest of united Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u71	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I begin my speech with the phrase I believe we have already repeated three times today: Nobody has to stay behind. I would like to bring to the attention of the House the case of ISLIM, the Higher Institute for Research and Training on Special Materials for Advanced Technologies in Terni. This institute has been active for about twenty years in environmental diagnostics, having gained great experience in chemical, physical, biological and environmental characterization. It deals with the study of water, air, soil, waste, sludge and waste. Well, next Thursday, the day after tomorrow, an assembly was convened to decide the liquidation of the institute. We believe that this fact is very serious, for two reasons: firstly, the institute is an excellence in the field of biological and environmental research; moreover, the 33 employees of the institute learned the news only a few days ago, and this is a sign of a great lack of solidarity with people and families, especially in this period of great crisis. The 5 Star Movement has asked the public members of the institute, who are City, Province and Region, to postpone this assembly to after the summer holidays and after there has been an effective comparison about the possible resolving scenarios. I would just like to mention at random some of the results that can be found in a report that I will deliver today to Minister Orlando: we have several patents, one of which for example for phytopuration, for the disposal of oil waste; then there is another project that has been awarded as one of the top ten environmental projects at European level. I finish my speech by saying - I repeat - that no one must remain behind; let us try to make sure that this great value that we have in Umbria, in the city of Terni, is not lost. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u74	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that on 6 August the 68th anniversary of the launch of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, three days later on Nagasaki, will also be celebrated. I will not make a detailed account, like my colleague with regard to the previous memory, of a tragedy which we all know and which has marked our consciences. Just this morning, here in Rome, crossing the Piazza del Pantheon, I think we all heard the bell ring: this is a symbol signal that resounds all over the world. In Hiroshima 50,000 people were present at the time of the celebration this morning. The mayor of Rome, Ignazio Marino, together with the Japanese minister Mitsuko and an important testimonial such as Carla Fracci, commemorated this moment bringing him to the attention and memory of Rome, at a time when this city is rethinking and in which, not only inside but throughout our nation, the desire to participate and reconstruct memory is growing. Ignatius Marino spoke of having a park or a street. I believe that in all countries, in all cities, in all the municipalities of Italy we should think (now 70 years from the end of the Second World War) of giving back the memory, where it lacks, to passages so tragic and so important. Of course, this moment has also been underlined by President Napolitano, who has pointed out that it is certainly our duty to remain vigilant in order to prevent the repetition of tragedies like Hiroshima and Nagasaki and to give stability and peace; above all we owe it to future generations. I think this is the perspective that we must all have, that is, to think about the stability of peace, to think about the peoples who still do not enjoy peace and to think about the aspect of nuclear power. Even from Japan there are important signs of progressive nuclear disarmament. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator Ferrara. Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). There are countries, as we know, that should be invited to do this. We must foreshadow a future that, from this point of view, is safer for our generations on two sides: not wars and not nuclear wars. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u77	CALIENDO (PdL). Madam President, a week ago I asked President Grasso, at the end of the sitting, to understand why the extension of the reform of judicial geography voted unanimously by the Justice Commission was not scheduled. I feel uncomfortable, and the citizens do not understand our work, because I have not received any response and the measure has not been scheduled. However, this is even more serious, because the text itself, as a single article, has been tabled as an amendment to the decree-law that we are examining. It was rightly considered to be impervious, because it was a decree-law, but when it was turned into an agenda it received a positive opinion and was accepted by the Government. There was therefore a need to debate, because the Government had given an opinion contrary to the bill and then agreed to consider the possibility of an extension. So, is there a problem of the effectiveness and efficiency of justice for citizens? This Parliament is not in a position to respond. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u78	Senator Caliendo, I have previously read the decisions taken unanimously by the Conference of Leaders on the timetable for the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-89.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 3 p.m. instead of 4 p.m. on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.46 p.m.
