ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u6	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, last week Pietro Barcelona, a lawyer, a professor and a politician of great fame, disappeared. A great man, by the way, even a painter, for those who didn't know. He had a great capacity for analysis, a speculative attitude that led him to write over 80 books between essays and scientific texts. I don't intend to commemorate Pietro Barcelona, because he wouldn't have wanted it. I asked for the floor to remind him, because I met him in 1976 at a conference on the reform of the judiciary at the Centre for the Reform of the State, in what later became his home. We met as elected to the Supreme Council of the judiciary not yet installed. For me it was an emotion because Pietro Barcelona at that time - I was a young magistrate - was the emblem of the alternative use of law, what was called alternative jurisprudence, for having collected the studies that had been done at a conference held in Catania a few years earlier. And I was very impressed - because in those years I taught at the Catholic Private Law University - his first attention to the reform of family law, which I was dealing with as a judge. He said to me: "James, we must identify the broad scope of the rules, which finally allow equality in the family, the equality of affections." As I said, he was also a professor of private law, and in that capacity has always favoured the distinction between rules and general clauses, he has always favoured the interpretation of the norm as far as it can be applied, so concerned about the condition of those who are in situations of discomfort, but essentially attentive to the scope of the norm. He once said to me: "Giacomo, remember that the dullness of a regulation will never prevent you from applying the norm." However, although I have had several political conceptions since then, I must admit that Pietro Barcelona already wrote in those years: "What struck me about capitalist hegemony over everyday life was the crazy claim to reduce man to a pure economic dimension." One may not agree with his analysis (as on some I did not agree), but one cannot but share the search for a social model that realizes man as a person in society. This was the story that, in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, still led us to have a series of reports, and in particular the day Vittorio Bachelet was killed, when, looking into my eyes, he said: It is not possible to do so. But the man of great humanity was in my room, while he had already been elected deputy with Aldo Rizzo, in occasion of an accident that had involved a series of magistrates. His intellectual honesty, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, led him to have, he who was a communist, a convinced Marxist, a long period of depression from which he wrote when he came out: "In the idea of communism that I had pursued there was a delusion of omnipotence in which a sort of megalomaniac explosion tended to prevent the emergence of any different point of view." It was this Peter Barcelona: intellectual honesty. I shall conclude, Mr President. His whole life, what is finally called the conversion to the Catholicism of Pietro Barcelona, is nothing more than a path, which I badly tried to retrace, of philosophical research, which has characterized him throughout his life and which can be condensed into one of the last things he wrote: I think (...) that the way of salvation and the escape from the unique thought of the dominant economy can only be achieved by restoring to man his divine vocation. Vale, Pietro. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u9	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I would like to mention here today, Pietro Barcelona, going beyond the definition given by the biographical notes: Giacomo Caliendo has already done so, and I thank him. Peter was, of course, university professor, member of the CSM and parliamentary and for many - even for many of us - would suffice these biographical notes, if not to exhaust the profile, certainly to describe the person: but it is not so for Pietro Barcelona. I met him at the age of eighteen: Faculty of Law, Catania, first year, private law course. I belong to that generation of boys and girls of the seventies who had chosen to be lawyers and who were educated by Pietro Barcelona to be one on the impervious roads of not surrendering to traditional dommatics and manuals, but from there to start - studying it first, however, deeply - to understand how the right could give other answers than those already given and sedimented, how it could continue to preserve its power, through interpretation, in being useful to change and the ability to rebalance the economic and social relations and the relationships of strength between individuals and groups, and to understand therefore how it could be useful for the same change of the country the alternative use of the right to which Giacomo Caliendo referred. This theory saw him as the protagonist and, with all the limitations he revealed, helped to change the physiognomy and the role of Italian lawyers in the life of the country. Already in this Pietro Barcelona revealed his not to be dommatic: in this never to be content and to educate himself never to be content with what is given, with what is easy, too easy, with what seems not questionable, because complex is reality and changing its relationships. And for Peter and for us it never became exhausted the search for answer. This trait accompanied him and defined him, and as a jurist and politician, but I could also say in the other forms in which he exercised his intellectual work. Whatever the question we were talking about, what struck him and which he taught was starting from having studied it very deeply, and then being able to start again, looking for the truth, the answer - I don't want to use improper words - with a point of view that didn't owe anything to everything that had already been said. In this there was a sort of innocence, an absence of stigma, an absence of chrism, which disoriented, disoriented, irritated. It was his strength and weakness and it was also the confirmation that, whatever the field of his research (right, philosophy, anthropology or theology), Pietro Barcelona was always confirmed as a great intellectual, and certainly not an intellectual "pure" - an adjective that is often added to this word - because I would betray the ultimate meaning of that research, which was never solitary and above all was never miserable. To mark progress in knowledge, but much more so in reality and even more so in human relations in terms of powers, rights and opportunities, in order to improve them progressively: this was the end. His speculation met God, James Caliendo recalled. And he said little, I agree, who spoke of his conversion, because without any fear Peter Barcelona - and I wonder to which of us would be enough this courage - said that he dealt with the inescapable (in the life of each person) question of God. And he spoke of himself, but he read the world and the weight that religion has in its history and the changes that this has caused and every day induces in the lives of human multitudes and in politics. I want to thank him here. I sent - he would say - to thank him only on behalf of us all boys and girls of the seventies. To each of us, who more, who less, depending on the courage of each of us, has taught to doubt and to seek, not to surrender to banality, to what is taken for granted, to over-archism, to ignorance, to mystification. And I would like, for my daughters, a teacher like him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u12	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, our group's senators also bow to the memory of Pietro Barcelona, having particularly appreciated the profiles that were drawn this morning. Taking back from my colleague Finocchiaro this beautiful profile of the anti-dogmatism of Pietro Barcelona, I, who did not have the privilege of being his student, but I knew him when I was already in that phase of assistant in university career, I always appreciated Pietro Barcelona's anti-dogmatism as another face of the best anti-academism of the Italian university tradition. Pietro Barcelona meant a philosophy of law, on the trunk of a Catalan tradition of philosophy of law that Pietro Barcelona respected precisely because it had nothing to do with the Catania of crociano Bruno, of the Gentilian Orazio Condorelli, of the crucianissimo Vittorio Frosini. But the generations happened and I happened to verify, in the death of Pietro Barcelona, that, well beyond the still young student Anna Finocchiaro, Pietro Barcelona had even crossed the Catania of Pietrangelo Buttafuoco. There was a remembrance of Pietrangelo Buttafuoco on "Il Foglio" about that encounter with the inescapable, in which it is said that at a certain point the man of legal antipositivism, of the anti-Kelsen, if you want anti-Bobbio, of the alternative use of law (to collect a formula of a great intellectual generation, to which I have never belonged, of course) had also struck characters so disco, so little attributable to any tradition: indeed, Buttafuoco. And Buttafuoco noted, with the same elegance as Giacomo Caliendo, the encounter with God, the encounter with a ratzingerism completely new and unexpected. And on that occasion, on that occasion of life, Pietro Barcelona had been able to reach the spirit of Buttafuoco without losing his friends of all time. I believe that Mr Tronti, with greater authority than I, could reconstruct that process from within a consciousness. But it is all over the figure and all over the work of Pietro Barcelona that the senators of our Group, largely Sicilian, are moved and thank our colleagues Caliendo and Finocchiaro for this occasion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u15	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I do not want to add any more words to what my colleagues have already said, but simply to associate myself with the memory of Professor Barcelona, whom I personally met, whose figure certainly cannot be relegated to the mere field of law, as evidenced by the works he has left. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Della Vedova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u16	The Presidency supports the remembrance and all the words spoken to the distinguished jurist Pietro Barcelona.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on Document LVII-a, No 2. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting three motions for resolutions were tabled and the representative of the Government said that he accepted motion for a resolution No 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u20	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in announcing the support of the Group of the Grand Autonomous Left and Freedoms for the report to Parliament, drawn up pursuant to Article 10a (6) of Law No 196 of 2009, I would like to make a few comments. It seems to me that it has also emerged in the debate in this House, with clear honesty, already from President Azzollini's introductory report, that the economic and public finance framework is still full of risks and uncertainties. On the same line, moreover, the undersecretary Baretta has emphasized that the document that the Government has introduced is the testimony of the complexity of the serious situation of our Country. We do not know whether, as was said yesterday, the fund has already been touched on and there is a real recovery or rather there are encouragements that the Government gives to itself and to Parliament with respect to the first actions of this first phase of life of the Government, but we must be clear that Italy still has an economic situation and of the public accounts absolutely uncertain and fragile, with a series of indicators, which yesterday were partially remembered, absolutely negative. I am referring to the worsening of indebtedness, the decline in consumption, the significant fall in taxation, which makes us lose a point of GDP, which is basically borne by VAT revenues, the marked reduction in energy excise revenue and the real risk of bringing local authorities' revenue to their knees. The municipalities, let us not forget, have difficulties in closing their budgets and approving their actual revenue. There is an absolute need for the Government to make an effort to prevent delays that have already been ventilated in public administration payments, to which Parliament and Government have committed themselves significantly in recent months and weeks. We - and not just ourselves - are still very concerned about the cover, as the President of the Budget Committee himself, Mr Azollini, pointed out. Few remain in fact the significant interventions that we expected and we still expect on cuts and waste. We remain far from the real possibility of a real reorganization of this country, starting with local authorities. I still think of the Provinces, where we are all waiting to know, with the risk of seeing a behavior from old liturgies with which we run the risk of thinking that the Government still has a little less courage than it has to do to reorganize the country system from the basics. We remain restless when the covers touch rights, even the most trivial ones, that the citizen had considered acquired. Let me give you a simple example. The deductions for life policies are reduced, on which many citizens had also planned part of their uncertain future. Acting on tax deduction or deduction measures to seek financial cover is a gross error because it undermines the confidence of honest savers and taxpayers. Who guarantees, for example, that taxpayers who now want access to the recent 50% measures for building renovations or those of 65% for energy efficiency of buildings will not be able to find themselves with the reduction of these facilities tomorrow, as has been done with life policies? We need certainties, the most trivial things, that accompany the honest citizen in his difficult daily life. In the decree of late August, moreover, a series of funds are created or implemented for access to the house, with which we give the feeling of a sort of novel statism with a bulky presence of the State and with uncertain economic and financial results in support of what we want to be supported, basically if not exclusively, by the market. In the decree of the doing it was expected, and it is expected, the impignability of the first house by Equitalia, a provision that, on the contrary, seems to limit, for the indicators we have, the access to the mortgage of many subjects. We have the impression that extemporaneous measures are still being taken, while a serious policy for the home should be adopted, which forces the banking system to be at the service of the citizen and development, because this country must resume to produce wealth. Regarding the house, we have the example, already consolidated in other countries where the house is, like us, a primary asset and where we aim to preserve the value of the property. We can propose this example again in our country. In order to allow access to loans, it would be sufficient to allow a total deduction of interest payable on the loan. This would result in a free market, with a real and stronger, more open and dynamic credit system, with lower interest rates, because they are applied in competition between banks and not because they are supported by state funds that will have their cost, and we need to see what will be available to citizens. We must, yes, relaunch the system of the real estate market, because the value of real estate has pulverized at this moment in our country, as well as the confidence of citizens. It is not the taxes that bring down this market, but the impossibility of access to credit. On the contrary, we have not read any measures to reduce unnecessary expenditure, waste, privileges, which are still before each of us. Nor have we read measures of serious simplification for citizens' lives and business activities. Economic growth will probably be (we all hope so), also because like the economic cycles, the cycles of history, are reproposed from year to year, and the cycles, in the end, are made by rising curves and descending curves. But that's not all we can count on. We have a desperate need to stop the departures of the many young people who leave our country. We have an increasingly depopulated Mezzogiorno from which, in 2050, two million people under 44 will disappear between denatality, unemployment and new migrations. We have a condition of segregation of women, of impossibility of access to work. We have 20,000 graduates from the South who have moved abroad in recent years. We need to trust the value, commitment and seriousness of a Government of great coalition to which we have asked, since its establishment, to engage in a project of radical and overall development of the country, a development that started from the South. Signs of this kind aren't seen yet. We are talking about documents, such as that on the agenda of the Senate, hoping that the positive indicators mentioned by the Undersecretary and of course in the debate in this House, such as production and export, represent a real beginning of recovery for the growth of this country. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u23	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I take the floor to vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE on the Government's Report, a vote which we express at a particularly difficult and delicate time for the country and which, precisely for this reason, takes on political significance. Both the speech by the rapporteur and the Undersecretary, but above all the speech yesterday by President Letta on the St Petersburg Summit, make good the political importance of this document, which gives us important and precise indications and which tells us that, even in the midst of a thousand difficulties and uncertainties, today there are glimpses of recovery for Italy. Not only that, but, as President Letta said yesterday, we are no longer under special supervision. Coming to the contents, the Report contains important interventions such as the refinancing of the Cassa Integrazione Guadi for 500 million euros; support for so-called individual workers who left their jobs before the pension reform (here there is intervention in favour of about 6,500 subjects, a definitely partial intervention, but in any case a first intervention); facilities for disadvantaged categories for access to the first house and interventions to support the real estate market, and in particular the aid to families through the Cassa depositi e loani; funds for 200 million euros to make more sustainable the burdens of mortgages and housing rentals through different and important types of intervention; payments of part of the debts of the territorial authorities; cancellation for 2013 of the first installment of the IMU on the main house and on the agricultural land and buildings; the introduction for 2014, to the regime, of the service tax, that we wish to lighten the tax burden for the families and, above all, for the enterprises. We are now waiting for the implementing measures and we will then have the opportunity to discuss them more thoroughly and to deal with the problems on the substance. As you can see, these are important measures, but at the moment - I repeat - they have a particular political significance that has been expressed several times in this House: the absolute need not to frustrate the work done, the absolute need not to go back and plunge the country into a dramatic crisis, with very serious consequences on the financial markets - we have already had the warnings - and on our international credibility, credibility that we are, with great sacrifices of all, slowly recovering. The data and indications contained in the document, which I hope we will approve today, tell us that the government had made a fair assessment of the situation and that the measures introduced were correct. We still live in a situation of high risk and any sign of political uncertainty would probably cause the situation to fall. Colleagues and colleagues, today we have a great and heavy responsibility: to transmit to the country and to the civil community a sign of trust and political stability. We have approved important measures, others we are discussing them: I am thinking of the important proposals for art and the revival of culture, the decree of simplifications, the bill for the rationalization of public expenditure, the so-called decree of doing 2, the important environmental norms (for whose urgency we voted yesterday), the measures for young people and work, the fundamental reforms that have already been set and that we will face in the coming months. We must continue on this path in order to consolidate the still tenuous signs of recovery and to respond responsibly to the expectations of the population. I really hope that Parliament and all political forces will respect this commitment. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u26	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have not tabled any motions for resolutions other than that of the majority. We have not done so because we are simply voting against it. This does not stem from the fact that the report submitted to Parliament contains data which are not consistent with reality. We have some concerns about the value of the estimates, but we are voting against them for another reason, which we have tried to express in recent days: it seems to us that the approach to the economic problems of the country is insufficient. We began this parliamentary term with the special committees, which dealt mainly with issues of an economic nature and the functioning of the State, and the first issue dealt with was the debts of the central and peripheral public administration to the business system. Mr President, we do not yet know the figures, because according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance it was EUR 60, perhaps EUR 70 billion, according to the Bank of Italy there were EUR 90, perhaps EUR 100 billion and according to operators, that is, companies and the democratic association system of producers, it was EUR 130-140 billion. State intervention is 40 billion, as reported by the State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance (in the Report there is talk of 47 billion and broken), tending to 50. We don't know how the payment system is working. We hope it works well; we also consider that you pay a price because, having lost the habit of paying, when you start doing it again maybe you record some resistance in the apparatus. Meanwhile, however, that sum is insufficient and, moreover, it has been created because of a pathology. Why didn't the public administration pay their debts on time, violating the law? He was expected to pay them on time. How did you accumulate those debts in such a way that you didn't know their size? This - I repeat - is the result of a pathology. So, I wonder how the Government intervenes in relation to the pathology, to who determined that condition: in the Report there is not even a minimum of initiative. And so we have absolved all those who have actually produced a hole that is estimated to go from EUR 70 billion to EUR 140 billion. That is why we shall not vote in favour of this report, which is not a political reason for a preliminary ruling, it is not ideological, but it is a reason for merit: there is no act of this Government which defines a clear, sure way in which it considers that the problems of the economy and public finance should be resolved. It goes to attempts, it produces initiatives disconnected from the whole, there is no overall reasoning, except a decision: public expenditure must stop. It must stop and it must not be corrected, it must not be revised, it must not be better oriented? You just have to stop. On the other hand, then, we have a decreasing GDP and therefore, when we have to put together the parameters, we have to respect that of 3% for the deficit-GDP ratio, we respect it in a condition of progressive impoverishment of the country. This government stands to manage the inexorable decline. We ask for more courage to bring about a reversal of the trend. We want there to be a growth plan, and public expenditure - which must be maintained - must be geared differently. Private investments in the system of financial speculation, to hear the data of the exchanges, are attested, also for Italy, in the year of crisis 2012 around 7 percent. There is no private investment that today has the courage to focus on production and business. If we do not move public investment and do not combine and do not urge private investment, we will never get out of the crisis we are in. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u29	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we welcome the presentation to Parliament of this report only because at least it allows for some interrelationship between the Government and Parliament. To frame the moment, however, it would be necessary to make a small digression and start from the Monti Government. The role played by that government was probably the beginning of a series of serious mistakes. The Monti Government has focused on fiscal consolidation and has completely neglected the economy and production. Replanting public accounts is a relatively simple thing: if a family has debts, the most trivial thing to do is go to the bank, take money and settle the economic situation. The problem is that the economy doesn't have the same dynamic: it's not that at the snap of the fingers it is decided that from the day after the economy starts again. The Letta Government, undersecretary Baretta, is a bit the continuation, the expression of the same majority that gave birth to the Monti Government; it should have done what it is not doing: to implement, that is, a fast change of course compared to the previously adopted lines. On the other hand, we see it retracing the same path, indeed it marks its pace. It is not a partisan judgment that we could give because we are in opposition and the opposition can read the data as it wishes. We read the data that you submit to us in this report and it starts from the forecasts, which were negative, and it comes to the results that you are presenting to us in this House that are even worse than the forecasts themselves: there is a decrease in production, there is a decrease in consumption and domestic demand, there is an important decrease in domestic product, there is a significant decrease in revenue, but there is something that grows: the total debt, which is almost 130 percent of gross domestic product. These, Undersecretary, are aseptic data; it is not that they can be read with the deformed lens according to the majority rate that each of us has in his blood. What do we read in the Report? It looks like a mantra: fiscal consolidation. But if we do not think about the recovery of the economy, which is the only element that would support it, we will never have consolidation again. There is a lack of policies to support the economy, which would be the only ones that would allow us to improve public balances. If you don't change course, the alternative is just to perpetrate recessive effects. It is established (you write) that there is a decrease in demand. But it is not enough to note that there is a decrease in demand: we have to ask ourselves why there is a decrease in domestic demand. The middle-high classes probably spend what they spent before thanks to sufficient reserves. The lower bands probably - indeed, the data tells us - fail to maintain the standard of living they had previously. The middle classes are about to disappear because they don't even have the guarantee and the supports of the welfare. The situation is indeed worrying. What should be done at this stage? We expected at least a reform of the tax system: we give back some money to those who can't consume today. Let's give some money back to the first two bands - for example - of the IRPEF, compensating for unchanged revenue (it is necessary to deal with the State Accounting) perhaps between direct and indirect taxes, since the people who today determine the decrease in consumption are defined as people who do not have a propensity to save. And why didn't they say leaning? Because they need all the income to cope with their consumption. If we give them 100 euros more per month, all they do is start them up on the market, creating only positive effects. Compensating between direct and indirect taxes: we know that evaders do not pay taxes. If we make them pay more on consumption, we will also have an extrajective resulting from the evasion that today seems to be unable to fight. We appreciate the EUR 20 billion found for 2013 and EUR 20 billion for 2014, plus an additional EUR 7 billion for the payment of corporate loans. We would, however, like to see, for example, tax reductions under arrangements or incentives and no six-month extensions in six months that only create uncertainty. I would like to give an example of what has happened in Trentino, where the emergency that has mostly affected the construction sector has been overcome. As you know, in Trentino the public body retains the nine tenths of the taxes collected on the territory. He made 100 available as long as the private had 200. By mobilizing 100 plus 200 you get to 300. That 300 mobilized made income for businesses. We know that every company pays on average 50% more than taxes. Therefore, 150 returns with very positive effects, such as improving the energy efficiency of housing, employment and local work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, I invite you to conclude your speech. DIVINE (LN-Aut). The system of enterprises is healed and increased revenue has been made available. Well, if that's the way, wake up government! Basically we see that it is running out and you are always out of time. Undersecretary, I would like to take a few seconds to comment on the motion for a resolution No 1 which we have tabled. We have called for resources resulting from efficiency and rationalization of public expenditure to increase the state funds in favour of the virtuous municipalities. She answered spades. I would remind you that Mrs Comaroli has had this same proposal approved on an agenda accepted by the Government regarding the budgetary adjustment that has been examined these days. The government at least does not take the floor: at this point it would seem to me at least an obligation accept it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u32	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, Mr Senator, fellow Senators, Citizens' Choice will vote in favour of the resolution approving the Government's Report. We are all aware of the difficult balance of our public finances and the difficulty of meeting our commitments to our country and to the European Union, which are indispensable to give substance to the timid signs of recovery. If others grow up and we do not have to search in our slowness, in the rigidity of our system, in our dysfunctions, especially of public administration, the main cause of our evils. That is why the end of the recession depends primarily on us. That is why we need political stability and we need to invest the few resources available in favour of the only factor that really favours growth, namely the reduction of taxation on labour cost businesses in order to create a virtuous circle between wealth, investment and employment. At a time of crisis, when the crisis comes out, we need different signals from those given by the IMU decree, which is the result of political mediation and which can make sense with the necessary corrections and integrations only if the priorities on the business and labour side are reaffirmed, as President Letta assured yesterday. The guidelines of this Report reaffirm the objectives of public finance pursued by the Monti Government and reaffirmed by the Letta Government. For these reasons, we, recalling here in full what Senator Lanzillotta said yesterday, will vote in favour of it and reserve the right to act on the substance when the IMU decree is dealt with. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u35	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in reading the Government Report, I have seen the government's approach to the 5 Star Movement. However, afterward we saw that he did not approach the voters, but he probably wanted to facilitate the drafting of the next show by Beppe Grillo. I'll explain why. The whole of the new measures will have a favourable impact on the economy and will leave unchanged the net debt of the general government reflecting only on the financial needs and the debt. The objective of achieving a net debt balance in relation to GDP within the 3% threshold for 2013 is therefore confirmed. Yes, the net debt of public administrations may also remain unchanged, but the state debt is in sharp decline. The issue of new public debt recognizes a debt that by definition was not counted in the cauldron, such as the commercial debt of public administrations to companies. We had to bet that the deficit-Pil ratio must be at all costs within 3%. In fact, the chasm in the public accounts is not a good thing. In 2012 GDP, at market prices, was 1.565.9 billion euros current, with a reduction of 0.8% compared to the previous year. GDP fell by 2.4% in volume and the estimated GDP in the DEF for 2013 was €1,573.2 billion. Here, some economists estimate that GDP for 2013 will be 1.551 billion euros. That GDP sends us good, otherwise at the end of 2013 we will have a deficit-GDP ratio well over 3%. What can be said with certainty is that Italy is the only country in the G7 where GDP does not grow, but decreases. According to data released a few days ago by the OECD in 2013, Italy's GDP will be -1,8%. Citing again the Government's Report: "The so-called "acquired growth" up to the second quarter of 2013 is equal to - 1.7 percent (...). This contraction is greater than that expected in the macroeconomic framework of the Economic and Financial Document (EDF), equal to 1.3% (...). However, the latest available information seems to confirm the assumption made in the DEF of a recovery in economic activity in the second part of the year. So, we are hopeless: not only have the predictions been wrong, but we continue to persevere. I wonder why growth, which is -1.7%, is not called by the real name, i.e. a contraction in GDP. Again. The Government in its Report states: The economic developments of the first half of 2013 confirm the correctness of the assessments carried out by the Government at the time of its establishment and the decisions subsequently taken. Following the significant fiscal consolidation undertaken in 2012 and already planned for 2013 it became necessary to complement the reform policies initiatives in support of the economy able to mitigate the recessionary effects (...). The decline in demand, which occurred in the first months of the year, subsequently proved to be greater than expected, further confirming the importance of the actions taken. The latter helped to stabilise the economic situation (...). As has already emerged in recent months, due to the decline in GDP in the first part of the year, and especially in the first quarter, the annual growth forecast in the DEF (...) will have to be revised downwards. Reading these three passages of the government's report, we can see the optimism that accompanies our Premier, while at the same time we can only grasp the schizophrenic and unholy way in which those who have political responsibility take care of public affairs. With regard to facilities in favour of disadvantaged categories, for access to the first house and support to the real estate market, let us be careful, the Government says to intervene by providing for the provision by the Cassa depositi e loani of a liquidity base in favor of the banks - again - for the provision of new loans for the purchase of the main house, as well as the acquisition by the Cassa itself of bank bonds in the context of securitisation transactions of loans derived from mortgages on residential properties. This is in order to free the assets of the banks, which will thus be able to lend new loans to the families for the purchase of main houses. We hope that this will be the good time, that the banks will release their bank assets by granting new loans to families. We hope that the intervention will not become yet another gift to the banking system: we have already seen enough. When the banks ask, with the threat of permanently closing the credit taps to families and businesses, the government is diligent in granting aid, it does not think twice. When small entrepreneurs ask for it, there are no resources; indeed, if they are allowed to insist they are massacred even more threatening new increases in IRAP, IRES (there is also a safeguard clause on this matter) and IMU. I was saying that the worst still has to come; among other things, since 2015 we will have to deal with a hell of a game: the debt rule or'six-pack', which states that Member States whose debt exceeds 60% of GDP (so surely we) must reduce this ratio at a pace that is adequate to converge towards the reference value. In order for the reduction to be adequate, the distance of the debt-to-GDP ratio from the 60% threshold must be reduced to the rate of one-twentieth per year, calculated at the average of three years prior to the valuation. Failure to comply with the debt criterion shall be assessed on the basis of three conditions and, if these are not met, the procedure shall be opened. Compared to the latter step, the Court of Auditors stressed that Italy must have a nominal GDP growth rate of one point higher than that required of other European countries for the next 20 years in order to ensure a balanced budget and debt constraints. The Court also affirmed that Italy's primary surplus, always in order to respect debt constraints, must be higher than that of other European countries, even if the spread between the various European countries and Germany was zeroed. The Court of Auditors has always defined this as a unrealistic hypothesis. Our country does not deserve all this and the 5 Star Movement Group declares its vote against the motion for a resolution No 3. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u38	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, of course, the People of Freedom will vote in favour of the majority's motion for a resolution, which also approves without further comment the Government's Report. This does not mean, however, that it was not a decision that was absolutely convinced of what we are expressing; convinced above all because the report to Parliament prepared by the Government indicates the new measures which have been adopted and which all go in the direction, which we and the other majority forces have repeatedly wished, of intervening on the salient points of our economy. First of all, there is further funding for the payment of credit from companies to the public administration, the refinancing of the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni, support for so-called exodus workers (a scourge that has to be healed and that is not yet fully healed, therefore it must be further addressed), the facilitations for access to the first house and support to the real estate market; moreover, there is what we consider to be an extremely positive measure, namely intervention in the field of IMU. They are all actions that justify, also in relation to the date of September 2013, the use of a further debt, quoted in the final part of the Report on the effects on the budget of the State, with an increase of 8 billion euros. In fact, when action is taken for absolutely precise and justified reasons, especially with injections of liquidity into the system that generate new wealth, then the use of debt can also be properly assessed, especially when it is partial to the accumulation of proposed interventions. However, this must also be a wake-up call, because the use of debt must be justified by measures that are absolutely consistent with the growth, development and overcoming of some strong social injustices resulting from previous decisions. What we must consider very carefully today is, instead, a possible further increase in debt for reasons that are not consistent with growth, in particular, the decrease in consumption, since we recorded in the arrangement approved two days ago a further increase in debt caused by the non-susistence of some items of revenue. This must make us reflect on the possible possibility of further increases in excise duties and further increases in taxation on sectors which have marked a decline in consumption precisely as a result of previous increases. Now that we are out of the condition of special surveillance, as President Letta reminded us yesterday, it does not mean that we are authorized to any act of economic irresponsibility. In fact, I want to remind President Letta, and ourselves, before even to him, that relapse has worse consequences than the condition in which it was before. So let us be careful, because we are tempted to do things that we cannot afford; we are warning it with certain decrees that are coming to Parliament these days. Increases in excise duties to provide for the recovery of bodies that have mismanaged in the past years and increases in excise duties to cover new pockets of precarious or new demands of the public employment are increases that we cannot afford, because then we will pay them in terms of lower income and additional indebtedness. So what has been done is good and what is contained in this report is absolutely acceptable. So, we approve of it. But beware of the next measures, because with them we could create the conditions of a relapse, as I said earlier, even though we were freed of the particular attention that we were the subject of in Europe (but I also believe internal, because we are not schoolchildren who simply have to listen to what some teachers say on duty). We must be aware of our way of acting and of the fact that we can move to an even more precarious and therefore more alarming state than what had put us in the condition, to repeat the words of the President of the Council, of special surveillances. Therefore, we will ensure that there are no inconsistencies in the budget and, in particular, decreases in revenue due to the increase in excise duties and taxation which leads to a contraction in consumption. It is not just about the effect on the state budget: the contraction in consumption feeds a negative circle throughout the economy and certainly does not help to create the premises for the recovery that we all want. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u41	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, the PD Group supports the Government's report on the basis of current public finance legislation. This opportunity allows us to carry out a first assessment of the macroeconomic developments of our economy and the public accounts, while a more detailed discussion can be carried out during the presentation by the Government of the Note to the DEF, planned in the next few days. The Report became necessary following the approval of the decree-law at the end of August, which provided for a new financing of social shock absorbers, the cancellation of the first installment of the IMU, the reorganization of the taxation on real estate, measures aimed at supporting families on mortgages for the first home and rents and a further safeguard in favour of exodus workers. It is a complex of measures aimed at enriching the period of legislative initiatives that the Government has promoted in recent months to support economic recovery and, at the same time, to safeguard the categories of Italians who have suffered the most from the tragedy of the economic crisis. Measures which, in the context of the conversion of the decree - as Senator Fornaro said in the debate - must certainly be improved in terms of social equity. Measures, it is worth remembering, promoted within borders of public finance extremely restricted by the budgetary constraints that will remain so in the near future. But now the international economic framework has better prospects. It is evident that advanced economies are finally emerging from the recession and the first signs of recovery are beginning to emerge. Even the Centro Studi Confindustria yesterday said that a recovery of growth is expected, albeit weak, already in the fourth quarter of 2013. After years of great difficulty that have led in 2013 still negative data on revenue, on debt growth, on the rise of unemployment, are small positive signs that do not yet have an impact on the living conditions of citizens, on the maintenance of employment levels but that we must not waste anyway. And within this framework - we tell the government - the measures of the coming weeks will be decisive. We have already indicated the priorities, which I would like to mention briefly here: to put in place all the necessary measures to quickly complete the payment to companies of public administration debts, a measure which already offers important results, but which must be carefully monitored by removing all bureaucratic obstacles; to take with conviction the path of reducing the tax burden on labour and businesses, as also indicated by the joint trade union-Confindustria document; to facilitate access to credit for companies; to support internal demand and consumption. In parallel, however, the revision of expenditure must be tackled decisively, especially in order to effectively combat waste and inefficiencies. It is no longer possible to carry out this review for each individual public administration. On the basis of the standard criteria and requirements (i.e. the essential levels of performance) and standard costs, substantial efforts are needed to rationalise expenditure, while on the institutional level a robust process of simplifying the institutional levels of the bureaucratic structure must be implemented, as repeatedly indicated by the Government's measures currently under discussion. The ability to make more effective use of the European Funds will also be decisive, with a radical discontinuity with respect to the highly deficit trend of the 2007-2013 cycle. These are the fundamental guidelines capable of engaging the first weak signs of recovery and transforming them, even for Italy, into a possible way out of the crisis. We cannot fail to note that the Commission's political standing is crucial in this context, which is an indispensable condition for any economic recovery. These days' fibrillations have had a worrying impact on the markets and on the cost of debt. It is a price that we cannot make our fellow citizens pay once again. The achievement of budgetary equality and the consequent exit from the deficit procedure will allow us in the coming months a limited freedom of expenditure, an area of manoeuvre that we must devote fully to supporting production, investment and employment. In order to attack the institutional foundations of the crisis we should also accompany these interventions with effective reforms able to address the issue of the reduction of the stock of the debt already in 2014 in order to free resources able to shorten the distance between our productive system and that of our competitors. However, we will have the opportunity to develop these reflections and to support them with concrete proposals when we discuss the law of stability, to which I believe we refer an important part of our action, in order to give a strong signal for development and growth and to support the possibility that Italy too will be able to engage the international recovery, in order to finally get out of the recession. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u44	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u45	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of motion for resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Fravezzi, Susta and Ferrara Mario, and accepted by the Government. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12,
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u46	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00121 (text 2), tabled by Senator Moronese and other Senators, 1-00131 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1-00135 (text 2), tabled by Senator Morgoni and other Senators, and 1-00141, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other Senators, on the burning of waste in cement factories. I call Senator Moronese to explain motion 121 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue I am putting to your attention does not, in my opinion, have a political color, nor does it represent a problem relating only to the present of all of us, but it is an issue that concerns the common well-being and the future of our country's territory; territory that for years has been damaged by a policy made up of regulatory measures that often go in the opposite direction to the one desired by those who, like me and as those who signed this motion, believe that health is a primary and fundamental good for all. (Brusio). I see that there is not much attention in this House to this matter: thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to ask Members to pay a little attention, since I am presenting the first motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u48	Colleagues, the senator is right.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u49	MORONESE (M5S). We, the representatives of the citizens, have a civic and moral duty to ensure that the rules adopted by this Parliament demonstrate the concrete will to safeguard the environment and the health of people. That being said, it is now important to summarize briefly the two contested measures adopted by the Minister for the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea pro tempore of the then Monti Government, which demonstrate the exact opposite of what has been said earlier. The first measure is Ministerial Decree No 22 of 14 February 2013, which regulates the cessation of the refusal status of certain types of secondary solid fuels (CSS), in which, among other things, the criteria to be met for certain types of secondary solid fuel to cease to be classified as waste. The second measure is the Ministerial Decree of 20 March 2013, published in the Official Gazette of 2 April 2013, amending Annex X of Part 5 of the Environmental Code, concerning the use of secondary solid fuel and transposing Ministerial Decree No 22, indicating the criteria for certain types of secondary solid fuels to cease to be classified as waste and can therefore be reused. In summary, with these measures the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea protempore has demonstrated the firm will to continue in what appears to be the shortcut of the incineration of waste in cement factories, burning solid urban waste to feed the cooking furnaces of the clinker, that is the main component of the cement. It is well known that Italy has received numerous convictions from the European Union for the continued infringements of the relevant legislation. What I believe, however, should be of interest to colleagues, in addition to the infringements and convictions received from our country, is the fact that we continue to take regulatory measures, such as the one I am discussing, which in fact constitute serious damage to human health. The use of cement factories as incinerators gives rise to thin dusts, sometimes defined as the enemy, or the invisible killer of the environment. I would like to point out that Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006 expressly prohibited the release into the atmosphere of any solid, liquid or gaseous substance which may cause atmospheric pollution, constituting a danger to human health. Well, Legislative Decree No. 155 of 2010 identifies, among the main production activities responsible for emissions into the atmosphere, the production of cement and waste used as fuel. Those referred to above are national measures taken to implement Community directives. It is recalled that incineration and co-incineration of waste are covered by Directive 2000/76/EC. This Directive includes special provisions relating to the emission limit values for cement kilns using waste as normal or additional fuel. On 24 May 2012, the European Parliament approved the Gerbrandy report on a resource-efficient Europe, which calls on the European Commission to rationalise waste legislation taking into account the waste hierarchy and the need to reduce waste to zero waste. This is why the text calls on the Commission to submit proposals by 2014 with a view to gradually introducing a general ban on landfilling at European level and gradually abolishing, by the end of this decade, the incineration of recyclable and compostable waste. In the light of the above-mentioned regulatory measures and policy intentions of the Community institutions, it is not understandable how it was possible to adopt two ministerial decrees which in fact go in the opposite direction to the one dictated by the Community and national legislators. But, to confirm what has been said so far, it is also necessary to highlight the process followed by the then Minister, with whom the two decrees that are being discussed have been adopted. Prior to the adoption of the aforementioned ministerial decree, the then Minister of the Environment had presented to Parliament, for the opinion, a draft decree of the President of the Republic for the use of secondary solid fuels to be burned in cement factories. However, the same scheme of decree of the President of the Republic had obtained a negative opinion from the House, and so the Minister thought well to invoke to himself the power to legislate, subtracting to Parliament the power that is recognized by the Constitution. This is a serious act, which deserves to be censored. In conclusion, the choice of incineration of waste in cement factories cannot and must not be shared, since, firstly, it is certainly contrary to Community and national legislation. Secondly, it exposes Italy to further condemnations by the European community. Thirdly, continuing to burn waste is a waste of resources and is a very high cost in terms of the environment and health of citizens. It is therefore necessary, in conclusion, that the Government undertakes to repeal Ministerial Decree No 22 of 14 February 2013, implementing, for secondary solid fuels, Article 184-b of Legislative Decree No 152 of 3 April 2006, so that it is no longer possible that certain types of secondary solid fuels can cease to be classified as waste and become an alternative fuel, and therefore free movement outside the individual regions is not allowed accordingly. Second, it is necessary that the Government undertakes to repeal the Ministerial Decree of 20 March 2013 amending Annex X of Part 5 of Legislative Decree No 152 of 3 April 2006, and subsequent amendments and additions, in the matter of the use of secondary solid fuel (CSS) in question, which transposes the specific criteria to be respected so that certain types of secondary solid fuels cease to be classified as waste, referred to in the aforementioned Ministerial Decree No 22 of 14 February 2013. Colleagues, to date we have witnessed continuous demonstrations of the political class's inability to propose solutions in line with those principles of environmental sustainability that Europe has been asking us for for decades. In the discussion of the bill Act of the Senate n. 941, better known as the saving decree-Ilva, this House declares that it is obliged, for reasons of urgency, to approve it despite being declared and clearly against every rule of common sense: now, today, instead, we have the possibility to approve a measure all together, to show that we are not relapsed in always making the wrong choices. I ask you as a colleague, as a Member of Parliament and as a citizen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u50	I call Senator De Petris to explain motion 131 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion stems from a question put by our Group on the ministerial decree of 14 February 2013 which, by downgrading secondary solid fuels, better known by now under the acronym CSS, from waste to by-products, allows them to be used as fuels by cement manufacturers in cement production. I would like to remind you briefly that it is true that on 14 January last the outline of the decree of the President of the Republic concerning regulations governing the use of SSCs in part replacing other existing rules had been submitted to the parliamentary committees and it is true that the Senate Commission gave a favourable opinion at the time. However, already the 8th Permanent Commission (environment, territory and public works) of the House in the last parliamentary term, in February 2013, had overturned the original proposal for a favourable opinion on this scheme, as it had carried out a much more serious deepening, requiring that the measure be deepened and not adopted. On the other hand, and I would like to stress this, a Minister for the Environment who had now exhausted his mandate, since the Chambers had already been dissolved and were about to arrive at the elections, issued a ministerial decree of such a nature that, from the formal point of view as well as of the content, it is not a measure of ordinary administration. This is truly incredible, precisely because the story of waste in our country is very complex and, in some parts of our territory, also very dramatic, so much so that in every legislature there is a bicameral commission of inquiry on the cycle of waste (also in this is being done, because the House has already approved the measure). This, to mean how in our country, although there are also many municipalities and regions that march well and in line with Europe, with very high collection rates and therefore with virtuous behaviors, there is another part of the country that continues to work in full emergency. This measure is also the result, once again, of this philosophy: a philosophy for which, after years and years, we continue to issue measures that are made in the wake of the emergency. And on the wave of emergency measures are taken that are - alas! - certainly not consistent with the European strategy and which we consider to be at very high risk to the health of our citizens, such as what the motions are talking about today. With this ministerial decree cement factories become in fact real incinerators. And we do not affirm this, but the Minister of the Clini Environment already stated it in various interviews, in which he sponsored the use of secondary solid fuels from waste in cement factories to reduce the needs of incinerators, meaning cement factories as a sort of addition to the many, too many, incinerators that are in our country. Among other things, I would like to remind you here that these statements as well as these decrees have a very questionable aspect from every point of view, because making it possible for cement manufacturers, in fact, to use the CSS, does not take into account the fact that the same are already unhealthy first class industries, which have legal limits to be respected, and that these legal limits are much more permissive than those of incinerators. Therefore, we all understand the scope of this decree: on incinerators there are certain limits, an operation is carried out whereby secondary solid fuels from waste to by-products are downgraded, so as to make it possible to use them in plants that do not have emission limits appropriate to what is burned, that is, real waste. I would like to refer to a number of very authoritative opinions which have been put forward during this period. I would like to mention, for example, the Association of Doctors for the Environment, which recalls that the cement factory is a highly polluting plant, with and without the use of waste as fuel, and produces at least three times as much CO2 as a classic incinerator. So, from the environmental point of view and the impact on health, this is not only a questionable operation, but much more. In addition, I would like to point out that the emission limits for these plants are certainly lower, but that with the decree Clini there is a further simplification of the process. The Medical Association for the Environment also recalls that, since the quantity of dioxins is proportional to the quantity of burnt waste, micropollutants emitted by cement factories can certainly be greater than those of incinerators. Therefore, the data that the Ministry of the Environment had at the time brought by suffrage of the goodness of this decree are data that, already in itself, tell us that we are on an absolutely mine ground. It is therefore the same data produced by the Ministry of the Environment that, in our opinion, should make everyone reflect. The cement factories, in this way, already have many problems in themselves. By burning waste (because this is what we are talking about), they generate a very large environmental impact, not confined only to nanoparticles. By the way, I would like to remind you that nanoparticulate can travel for very wide distances driven by the wind. The nanoparticle is the ultimate frontier of medical research and science, so much so that that part of the research often subsidised by the same energetic giants of the incineration of waste tends to minimize the effects of microdusts emitted by combustion, even at very high temperatures. This is one of the biggest problems, from the point of view of health impact. Among other things, frankly, we feel absolutely suspicious of the haste with which a government resigned had issued the decree in preparation for the decree of the President of the Republic. We consider it absolutely necessary - and today we have the opportunity - to ensure that this Senate in the new legislature puts its hand back on this matter and deletes - we ask for it without any means - Ministerial Decree no. 22 of February 14, 2013. We believe that it is necessary, on this occasion, to review in the relevant Commissions all the matter which concerns not only the aforementioned decree which we are calling for to be repealed, but also incineration. We can no longer continue to ignore and disregard the European provisions on the recovery of the matter under which interventions aimed at separate collection are the priority ones, and not the use of destructive methodologies that ignore, among other things, other directives. All this cost Italy the European Court of Justice's conviction of 19 December 2012. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u52	I call Senator Morgoni to explain motion 135 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, the problem of waste is undoubtedly a major environmental emergency in our country. More properly we should consider it a chronic disease, as an emergency calls for a temporaryity that does not correspond to the long-term continuation of a situation, as in the case of the waste problem. Too many circumstances attest to this reality and I quote a few. Four regions (Campania, Sicily, Lazio and Calabria) are in collapse; almost a third of the national population with large urban areas such as Rome, Naples and Palermo are involved. As regards landfills, at the end of February 2012 we received a notice of formal notice from the European Commission on the presence on national territory of 102 landfills which did not comply with Directive 1999/31/EC requiring the adoption by July 2009 of closure or adaptation measures. Despite this, we are proceeding with intolerable slowness in regularizing these anomalies and, in reality, if we do not want to lie to ourselves, the situation on the territory is far worse than it is found in official data: hundreds and hundreds of public landfills (not speaking of illegal ones, another painful chapter) exhausted and abandoned are scattered everywhere, in fact ignored, without plans and without resources for reclamation, and represent an indelible stain for the territory. With regard to infringement procedures, the number and scope of open procedures on our part for non-compliance with EU legislation has sadly characterized us as an outlaw country. In 2010, the European Court of Justice condemns us for failing to set up an integrated urban waste management network in the Campania Region and again we are being referred to the same Court in June this year for delays in the implementation of the agreed programmes. The European Commission has proposed to sanction us for this with a lump sum of around EUR 30 million for the past and a periodic penalty payment, if the default continues, of EUR 250,000 per day. The ecoballs, a mountain of waste of eight million tons, are packed and stored in the various sites in Campania waiting for disposal. It is no coincidence that among the countries of the European Union we are at the last places in the ranking for the efficiency in waste management. It is a situation that calls into question the very credibility of the political-institutional system which, in the matter of waste, has assumed too often as rules of conduct the avoidance of its own responsibilities and acquiescence to bad habits, as does today those who, wandering the future utopia of zero rejection, escape the task of responding to problems resulting from a past of neglect, superficiality and wrong choices. Still, in 2010 in Italy, a little less than 50% of waste was landfilled, while the EU average is 37% (Germany is 1%). Separate collection in Italy at the end of 2012 reached 39.9 percent, compared to a 65 percent target. Also the data on the production of the waste are not comforting because in the last twenty years there has been an uninterrupted increase, with the only exception of 2011-2012 due exclusively to the strong contraction of the consumption. In 2010 we produced 32.5 million tons of waste, today we reach 30 million tons. But the most accredited forecasts indicate a resumption of the trend of waste growth in the coming years, and this makes the need to reduce the landfill contributions that represent the real Italian anomaly really imperative. The landfill produces certain environmental damage (0.5 kilograms of CO2 per kilogram of municipal waste), as well as a huge waste of energy (the economic value corresponding to the calorific value of municipal waste disposed of in landfill is estimated at over one billion euros). Given the scale of the problem and the fact that the introduction of a policy that develops around prevention-reduction, reuse and recycling will take a long time, a transitional phase must be managed which cannot be excluded from the use, although limited, of energy recovery through heat-to-energy. It is also clear that the construction of new plants is particularly complex and controversial; for this reason the hypothesis has been made to use already existing plants and in operation such as cement factories equipped with ovens for the cooking of the clinker, essential component of the cement, furnaces fed by fossil fuels that can be effectively replaced by fuel coming from waste. This is the case of the CSS, a product derived from the treatment of certain waste, of which first Legislative Decree No. 152 of 2006 and subsequently Ministerial Decree No. 22 of 14 February 2013 set out the characteristics and conditions of use in industrial plants such as cement factories. In Europe this is an already widely practiced road: in the Netherlands and Germany the SSC represents 83 and 62% respectively of the fuel used in cement factories. This choice offers some opportunities: reducing the environmental and economic problem of landfills (I remember that in recent years the cost of waste management in our country has increased by 6% per year); using existing plants; replacing a fossil fuel that we have to import, with an alternative fuel produced by us with obvious advantages in terms of energy bills (as estimated by Nomisma in 368 million euros per year). Faced with these opportunities, concerns have been raised that the use of CSS may compromise separate collection projects, but it should be borne in mind that the same commodity characteristics as CSS require prior selection of waste. In addition, it is produced using almost exclusively non-recyclable waste which would otherwise be disposed of in landfill. [[Senator Pepe's comments.]] The concerns about the possible negative effects on the environment and the health of emissions resulting from the use of SSC in cement factories are the most serious and should not be underestimated provided that they are not a pretext for prejudiced hostility and an instrument for the search for easy consensus. Therefore, careful and prudent insights and assessments are certainly necessary. However, the regulatory framework and the findings of the most qualified scientific studies are encouraging in this respect. At European level, the use of CSS in cement factories is expected to be one of the best available techniques; in Italy its use is limited to cement plants with production capacity exceeding 500 tonnes per day and therefore subject to AIA and the legislation on co-incineration of waste, in line with similar European directives. With regard to cement plant emissions compared to incinerators, scientific studies also point out that emissions are generally lower than those produced from fossil fuels. The only limits for which the norm provides higher values are those of oxides of nitrogen as well as of pm 10, but for both have been verified improved effects with the use of CSS compared to fossil fuels. For dioxins, in particular, the high temperatures of the furnaces (over a thousand degrees) ensure the destruction and oxidation of all organic polluting molecules. This does not mean that the adoption of such a system makes us immune from any negative impact or relapse, but since it is undeniable that the management of waste in Italy still entails unacceptable costs for nature and people, it would be foolish to give up open-ended research and practice solutions that could mitigate, if not eliminate, such problems. In conclusion, the use of CSS cannot be the instrument to transform cement factories into incinerators, but to guarantee them the use of an alternative fuel to fossil fuel to help meet European environmental commitments and offer concrete solutions to specific problems in our country. A modern and integrated waste management cycle must necessarily combine the reasons for technical feasibility and economic viability with those of environmental protection and even more of people's health. Too many cases of negligence, omissions and dramatic errors that have led to environmental and human tragedies have caused mistrust and aversion to politics and institutions. The answer can certainly not be the 'immobilismo', which would represent, as has happened so far, the most serious damage to our country, but rigorous choices transparent and able to reassure, like those we ask the Government with this motion. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u54	I call Senator Arrigoni to explain motion 141.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the North League has always addressed environmental issues as issues that start from the bottom up, that is from the population, and has always indicated its own positions that can be taken as a model and constitute a trend and a driving force for human action. We certainly do not agree with the action of the Monti Government which, at the beginning of the year, on the one hand suspended Government Act No. 529 on the use of the SSC in cements, because it was not shared by Parliament, and on the other hand, by an act of force, substantially replaced it, in fact causing similar effects, first by Ministerial Decree No. 22 of 2013 and then by the Decree of 20 March 2013. It is the confirmation of a modus operandi of the Monti Government: the continuous recourse to the imposition of trust issues or ministerial decrees provided that it compresses and does not pronounce the Parliament. However, as a North League we do not give up our contribution to the subject of the motions. First of all, we express our failure to share the motions presented by the 5 Star Movement Group and the Mixed-SEL Group. These motions, in fact, show a braking position relative to the infrastructures and are contrary a priori to the practice of burning the waste, regardless of whether this practice is used for the recovery of thermal or electric energy in the incinerators or in the thermo-towerizers and whether this practice can be carried out following a process of management of the waste cycle that in any case provides for the separate collection and recovery of the raw materials potentially recoverable. In our view, the weakness of the two texts is mainly that it is not true that separate collection is the solution to the problem and may not be forever. We say this from experience in the field as former local administrators who have helped develop excellent management forms in the North, with differentiation tips of 70 and 80 percent, including compost. In addition, these motions create alarmism about pollution, without taking into account that cements are highly polluting plants even if they burn diesel or coal and that the use of CSS fuel instead of coal leads to lower emissions. Not to mention that already today, ladies and gentlemen, cement factories (and they are paid to do so) are allowed to burn waste of all kinds such as animal meal, tyres, the CDR, which I would dare to call the CSS dad, but also the simple CSS that already exists on the market today. The second consideration is that it remains indisputable that the country must establish a clear line of reference with regard to the production of energy and the reduction of emissions, both those climate-altering, and those harmful to the health of the population. But alongside these problems there are those, in some dramatic cases, of the disposal of waste, which present themselves as bad practices, typical and almost exclusive of our country, indeed - let us say - of widespread areas of the South (in Sicily, Calabria and Naples, where the fines imposed by Europe for repeated infringements are also economically heavy), but also of the center (Rome on all with the landfill of Malagrotta, which will return in the next few days to represent an emergency, a shameful emergency). In this context there is a catastrophic action, sometimes fed by the media, which has demonised some models of waste disposal, such as incineration and heat-to-energy. This action is the origin of laxism, which paradoxically justified the inertia of many incompetent administrators of the Centre-South, responsible for widespread practices of bad waste cycle management. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Disaster actions which, for some subjects, also represented the strength and then the success of their electoral campaign also in the Centre-North. The North League has always shared a position in favour of waste reduction. The municipalities and provinces administered by the North League, in their different roles, have always proposed and implemented forms of waste management that have achieved internationally recognized excellence. However, we are convinced that after the reduction, differentiation, selection and recovery of waste material, we must also consider the possibility of producing energy through the treatment of residual waste. This must be done in such a way as to provide a further opportunity for the whole community. Let us think of waste-to-energy, district heating, the possibility of using waste for the production of thermal energy, rather than fossil materials that are not infinite. Environmental policies are linked, on the one hand, to the information, education and awareness-raising system of the citizen towards environmental issues and, on the other hand, to the control of emissions, with particular reference to the lowering of emissions of air pollutants by industrial plants, means of transport, thermal and energy plants. School can also play an important role in the training of young people in environmental policies. There are important examples. Let me mention a project that has been going on for about ten years now in my town of Calolziocorte, where I was mayor until a few months ago. Every year all classes (about twenty) of the lower secondary school are put in healthy competition among themselves to those who collect more paper. Each student of the first three, who comes to collect up to 20 tons of paper each, is given a voucher of 20, 10 and 5 euros. In addition, the school as a general prize is given a computer equipment. This is a small virtuous example, a project between school, municipality and public society that manages waste collection. The third and final consideration is that Italy cannot lag behind our European partners and must however govern the production of secondary solid fuels (CSS), and in particular the distinct CSS-combustible of greater and certified quality. We reiterate that the objective must be to contribute to the reduction of polluting emissions, including emissions of greenhouse gases, to the increase in the use of renewable energy sources through sustainable use for energy purposes of biomass contained in waste, to a higher level of waste recovery. The incineration of waste for the production of heat certainly means a reduction in the environmental and economic costs associated with the disposal of waste in landfills and with the controlled use of CSS in existing cement factories - which I stress will continue to be such and will not be transformed into incinerators - perhaps and finally we will be able to say the end to the shameful problems of the Centre-South, with often abusive landfills and many unnecessary and costly commissioners. With our motion we ask the Government to undertake, before any direct action, to regulate the use of the CSS in cement factories, to promote however an in-depth debate on the matter by the competent parliamentary committees, providing an updated picture on the current use of the CSS and the CSS-fuel in cement factories, both in Italy, unbundled for Regions, and abroad, that can analyze the issue through appropriate hearings of the representatives of the regions and the economic subjects involved and in-depth examinations of specific scientific studies. In particular, the study will have to refer to: emissions of pollutants and the possible environmental, health and social consequences, also as a result of possible malfunctions or management errors (in any case, the limits imposed by the AIA for emissions will have to be similar to those provided for plants dedicated to heat-to-energy); the consequences of traffic induced relative to the transport of the SSC and the effects of traffic induced on local territorial realities and, above all, the restrictions that need to be identified about the circulation in other regions of the SSC coming from urban waste, guaranteeing however the criterion of proximity and that the plants for the processing of urban waste in SSC are nevertheless located within each region where the waste is produced (in substance, Sicilian urban waste, calabresi, bells or Lazio must be treated in the same Regions); strict compliance with the hierarchy of waste management provided for by the Community directives in the chain of production of both CSS-fuels, and the normal SSC, in order to avoid the disincentive of the differentiation and the supply of materials reusable in production cycles; and in the instruments of information and consultation in relation to the production chain of the production, both to the production of the production and to the operation of alternative processes for the use of waste and to be carried to the environment, and to be carried with regard to the management of the use of the use of alternative fuels, and to the use of the use of the use of these fuels. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u56	I declare the debate open. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when waste is burned - and the SSC is in fact a waste - substances are formed: dioxins, heavy metals and particles. dioxins, a large family of 200 compounds, are really very dangerous and concentrate in our body for that process called biomagnification. If it were true what you said that at 1,000 degrees dioxins disappear you should explain what happened in Mantua. In this town we had a beautiful incinerator that burned all the dioxin in Seveso. The qualitative and quantitative concentration of Seveso dioxin is exactly what is in Mantua, so if at 1,000 degrees it disappears, why should it be there? Experimental work of the University of Louisiana in 2006 and today Canadian scholars, confirm that when dioxin is burned, during the cooling phase of the fumes it is reformed. So it's not true that incinerators make dioxin disappear. As far as nanoparticles are concerned, however, I would like to remind you that the dangerous ones are not PM10, but PM1, which are not 10 times smaller, but 1,000 times smaller. These enter the blood [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and once in the blood they create a problem of thromboembolism. Studies of the University of Milan show that those who live near the highways where there are so many particles die more than strokes and pulmonary thromboembolisms. Moreover, these substances pass through the bloodstream and when the woman is pregnant they are found in malformed children. That nanoparticles are dangerous is well known by President Formigoni, who, with two regional resolutions of 2008 in 2009, invited citizens not to light wood stoves in the autumn period in the plain because they produce nanoparticles. Unfortunately, I'm a doctor, I'm a pathologist, and I'm also from Mantua. I have performed 2,500 autopsies and I could show you the nanoparticles not only in malformed fetuses, but also in dogs, cats, which do not smoke, as the Ilva commissioner says. I could say a lot, but the four minutes at my disposal are ending. I would like to remind you that the ashes are put in cement and here our free plaster lead and mercury, which we breathe. It has already been said that they are against the European Community. It must be remembered, however, that as early as 1960 doctors knew that asbestos caused mesothelioma and it took us thirty years to make a law. Doctors have known these things for 15 years now. How long do we have to wait? How many dead are we gonna have to cry? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by calling for the full text of my speech to be appended to the documents. I also ask you if you can give me a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes of your time, so that I can show you the images of my malformed fetuses undergoing autopsies. Finally, I would like to ask you to vote at the same time on all the motions that have been tabled, so that you can tell those parents why our colleagues have not prevented this disaster. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u58	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u59	Mr President, first of all, I am also a doctor, and I wanted to point out that the combustion of waste in part replacing fossil fuels is a practice that makes immediately available for the incineration of waste, with an extremely simplified procedure, the 59 cement plants located on national territory, which would be flooded with the already many incinerators available: Italy is in fact third place in Europe for the number of operating incinerators. It is not incinerated waste that we need nor the pollutants and toxic ash produced by this practice. The question then arises as to why we are not inspired by the precautionary principle, starting with the European Commission's COM (2001) 31, which should be adopted in cases where there are suspicions of adverse effects on children's health, but not established scientific evidence. On this occasion I would like to address all the medical colleagues present in this House, to any parliamentary group they belong to. I believe that every doctor should care about the health of his patients and citizens. As doctors we are aware of the relationship between environment and health: it is no accident that we are discussing this in the 12th Commission. We continue to bring substances of all kinds, largely toxic, into the ecosphere, which are causing sudden changes, with consequences - as we have heard - that affect both adults and children and (which is worrying) also many pregnant women. I believe that as doctors we must first be indignant and immediately afterward fight these evil practices. Chronic diseases (such as type 2 diabetes, childhood obesity, neurovegetative diseases and autoimmune diseases) are on the rise worldwide, and have been related to environmental changes, mainly caused by the introduction of pollutants into the ecosphere by industrial activities based on high temperature combustion processes. We often feel that the problem of health is the decision-making infiltration of politics: as Senator doctors, we make sure that the health represented by us in legislative institutions is free from the mistakes and horrors of the political class. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let our fellow senators understand that we are here to defend our health, not only of those who voted or supported us, but of all the defenceless in the face of our wrong choices, even in good faith. As a doctor, I would like to be placed in the best position to consider waste as a resource to be used, not as a problem to be destroyed; I would like to be able to improve and enhance separate collection, to reduce waste production, to promote good practices; above all, I would like waste to be a source of work, economy and a common good and not just an object of profit and a good for the lobbying of secondary solid fuels and cement. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u61	Mr President, let us make some technical notes. In the context of this beautiful definition of secondary solid fuel (i.e. in the general installation) the main objective of any waste policy should be to minimise the negative consequences of the production and management of waste for human health and the environment and should also aim to reduce the use of resources and promote the practical application of the waste hierarchy. What does the hierarchy say? Let's do a little review, because here we have to postpone everyone to September. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He says that first of all you have to prevent, then you have to try to reuse, then recycle, then recover, eventually burning, and then, if you really can't, throw away the rejection. The good Italian experiences tell us that you can get to throw away 4 percent, following correctly the hierarchy. However, going further, this directive says: if you really can't respect the hierarchy, because technically you can't do it or because it's not economically viable or because of environmental protection issues, you can do something else. But all these obstructions are not there, because in Italy there are good practices according to which these three problems are not such, and they become so only if someone thinks they want to do something else with these waste. Then what is the concept? The concept is that with this directive you are also told that under certain conditions you can promote and not degrade from rejection to raw material-second: it is a promotion. So I would like to know - and not just myself - with what test one says that, while the incineration of waste is placed in the fourth place, that is, there are three better options, something better than this practice must still be placed in fourth place: that is, we burn waste in cement factories, which are furnaces, because they produce heat, they have no other kind of recovery. Remember that purely thermal recovery is even less efficient than recovery in an incinerator, and we already do not agree with incinerators, let alone if we agree with this practice of burning these blessed CSS in cement factories. I will conclude by saying one more thing. I heard a thermodynamic abortion here. Some say that it is absurd to take these objects and use them in other ways, because we could recover all the thermal energy inside: we save on the energy bill if we burn these substances. But all the raw materials we use to produce them, all the fossil fuel we import, that costs us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So it's actually fake! You have to stop saying that there is energy to go and get, because if you look at the LCA studies (life cycle assessment) you realize that much more energy is wasted to do them than it is recovered. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u62	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u63	I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u64	Mr President, I have prepared a short text to explain this subject which is quite complex and also lends itself to easy exploitation. I shall proceed in a nutshell and then give my opinion on the various motions. The production and use of CSS (secondary solid fuels) is part of all the environmental, energy and industrial policy interventions that Italy needs in order to fulfil its European and international environmental and energy commitments. In this respect, the production and use of CSS-fuel offers significant potential. The growing price of oil and other primary fuels (e.g. coke of oil and coal), a symptom of an incipient shortage aggravated by a general context of economic crisis, makes the search for alternative energy sources urgent. Italy is one of the industrialized countries most dependent on external imports of energy sources, which causes chronic imbalances in the balance of payments. Strategic considerations also require the maximum diversification of the energy mix, the reduction of dependence on fossil fuels and greater security and stability of supply. Considering the scenario, it is therefore necessary to promote not only the development of renewable sources, but also the use of alternative fuels, with particular regard to those produced by waste, in particular secondary solid fuels (CSS), as best defined in article 183, paragraph 1, letter cc), of legislative decree no. 152 of 2006, whose valorization in certain industrial sectors (cements, thermal power plants) allows to transform a problem into a resource for a productive sector and for the community. Some types of secondary solid fuels have commodity qualities that justify, from a regulatory point of view, their classification as a genuine fuel product. The use of alternative fuels, with particular regard to secondary solid fuels produced from waste, is also particularly indicated in terms of industrial policy. The increasing use of fuels based on virgin biomass, for example, also raises economic concerns, as it causes distortions in the market for food products (cereals, maize and other) and some important national industrial productions (paper, furniture and so on) helping to reduce dependence on imported fuels and to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of Directive 2009/28/EC. In addition to the challenges arising from the above-mentioned issues, Italy is also faced with some purely national problems related to waste management. The quantity of waste constitutes an environmental and territorial problem common to all the industrialized countries, but with more serious connotations for Italy and, in particular, for some areas of our country that still make extensive use of landfill disposal, of which many, among other things, are being exhausted. The practice of landfilling represents not only a potential environmental risk, but also a huge waste of material and energy resources such as materials that can be obtained, after recovery, from waste. (11.40 a.m.) (Following CIRILLO, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea). Although the export of waste carried out by some Italian regions to other Member States contributes to resolving, in the immediate future, the serious emergencies in progress, this is an unsustainable practice in the long term both in view of the environmental and economic costs of transport and treatment and in view of the net economic losses resulting from the non-exploitation of the materials and energy resources contained in the waste shipped, for consideration, abroad. From this point of view, it is urgently necessary to plan and implement viable alternatives in Italy, with the aim of achieving self-sufficiency at national level. In the energy, environmental and industrial context described above, Ministerial Decree No. 22 of 2013 offers an important contribution to the solution of the highlighted problems. Consistently with the dictates of article 184-b, Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 the decree of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea February 14, 2013, n. 22, establishes rules for the production and use of certain types of secondary solid fuel to take place in the strictest respect of the standards of protection of the environment and human health. Ministerial Decree No 22 of 2013 established a specific legal framework to regulate the production and use of secondary solid fuel in selected industrial plants which, for the guarantees provided in the environmental and technical fields, are particularly suitable for this purpose. The use of alternative fuels in cement factories is common practice and widespread in Europe, in particular in member countries with high percentages of separate collection and at the top of the European ranking of the virtuous countries for waste management, from which we often say we want to take an example. It is therefore simplistic and in any case not technically correct to identify it with incineration, since these are completely distinct industrial processes and with considerable specificity. Furthermore, it is recalled that the use of secondary solid fuels in cement factories is recognised, through a very recent regulatory decision (European Commission decision of 26 March 2013), at European level as best available technique (MTD) or best available technique (BAT). From the latest available data, the European average for replacing traditional fuels with alternative fuels is 30%, and in some countries 60% is higher. Germany has reached heat replacement rates in its cement kilns of 61 percent, Austria of 50 percent, France of 27 percent. Italy is still at 10%. At the level of individual plants, there are now plants in Europe which have reached a level of 100%, fully replacing fossil fuels with alternative fuels. Italian cement mills could achieve replacement rates similar to or higher than those of other countries, in complete safety. From the current 10 percent heat replacement, Italian cement mills could technologically already be able to reach levels of 50% today, value at least comparable to that of the replacement rate achieved in Germany. That being the case, the use of CSS, fuel in accordance with the characteristics of the Ministerial Decree, does not represent at all a form of waste incineration, but rather the use of a genuine classified fuel product, in turn obtained from a process of material recovery. Ministerial Decree No 22 of 2013 aims to ensure that the production and use of certain types of secondary solid fuel takes place in the strictest respect of environmental and human health standards. Having said that, I move on to the wording of the opinions. On motion 121 (text 2), with the first signatories, Senators Moronese and Nugnes, I express the opposite opinion, as well as on motion 131 (text 2) with the first signatory, Senator De Petris. Instead, the opinion is in favour of motion 135 (text 2), with the first signatory, Senator Morgoni. With regard to motion 141 signed by Senators Bitonci and Arrigoni and other Senators, I give a favourable opinion, subject to rewording. I propose to replace the words "engaged" by the Government, before any action aimed at regulating the use of the SSC in cement factories, with the following "engaged" by the Government to assess the appropriateness of "implemented."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u65	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u68	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I am voting in favour of motion 135 (text 2), which sees Mr Morgoni as the first signatory and which I myself have signed. I also agree with the words of the Secretary on the documents which have been submitted. Our document is a document which I consider to be much more balanced and constructive than those presented by other political forces and on which I am voting against, partly because I do not share the alarmist tones that have been used in this House. The subject is certainly sensitive, but it must be considered on the basis of the scientific data in our possession, but also taking into account the dramatic situation that Italy is experiencing in the field of waste disposal and that the Undersecretary has just highlighted. I believe that doing nothing, and then leaving the problem at the dumps in Rome and finding ourselves in the current situation is absolutely not a good behavior. I believe that this problem must be addressed and, in our opinion, the production of secondary solid fuel becomes necessary at this point in order to avoid further landfilling. In addition, the emissions resulting from the treatment of cement plants offer more guarantees than those of an incinerator, because the emission limits imposed on cement plants are more restrictive than those imposed on incineration plants, the temperatures are higher and the times are longer and therefore this ensures a more complete incineration of waste and therefore cleaner emissions. In essence, a cement factory thus gives more guarantees than an incinerator. Therefore, in our opinion, the line adopted by the previous Government must be reconfirmed, but providing for very specific precautions, constant monitoring and precise precautions, which are all contained and listed in a strict and precise manner within the document that I myself have signed and which gives us, as I have already said, all the necessary guarantees. Moreover, the use of solid fuel in cement factories gives a breath of oxygen to a sector that is experiencing, for the state of construction, a heavy crisis. Also in the Province of Trento, it has been decided that the cement factory of Sarche di Calarino can use the residual sludge of the purifiers for the energy supply of the same plants: this will avoid the use of pet coke, currently used, which is a much dirtier fuel. In this way unnecessary transport will be avoided, residual sludge will be recovered and, above all, we will have cleaner emissions. This operation, however, will allow the cement factory, which does not become an incinerator (because the incinerators treat anything else like waste) to reduce energy costs and thus guarantee the current levels of production and employment. We therefore declare the vote in favour of motion No 135 (text 2), which I myself have signed, and I vote against the others, except for the one for which the Undersecretary proposed a mediated text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u69	Before continuing with the explanations of vote, I would like to give a statement to the House. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic informed me that he had appointed Professor Giuliano Amato as judge of the Constitutional Court by decree today, countersigned by the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u72	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Senators and Senators, there is no great concern for you. We have seen, not only in this debate, but also in recent days, a picture of absolute inadequacy with regard to the size of the problem. In terms of the environment and the living and health conditions in our country, we must know that it is not alarmism what I am and that we are doing in today's debate: we have entire, important and strategic areas of our country at risk of environmental crac. When I say this, I say something simple and dramatic: we read about the level of irrespirability of the air or about the impossibility of drinking water even from the aqueducts, because with percentages of pollution and poisons such as to determine death for human beings and for living beings; we have strategic areas of our country already entered this shadow cone. In illustrating the vote in favour of the motion presented by us, as well as that presented by the senators and senators of the 5 Star Movement, I say: be careful, let's stop, because the reasons presented by the Government, listened with great attention, represented an additional element of concern, because we invest in this practice of leading to the burning of millions of tons of something that often in Italy (we are not talking about who knows which other country) no one is able to say the composition and effects on emissions. This is the situation of our country, this is the situation that exists in Rome and in the Province of Rome; this is the situation that exists in the area of the valley of Sacco, Epicentro Colleferro, with a cement factory, with a thermo-energy plant, with accidents that have already been determined. So we're not talking about what's gonna happen, but we're talking about something that's on the threshold of environmental crac. We have already paid millions of euros for the infringements that Europe obviously sanctions us. Then we must overthrow this pyramid. It is clear that the speech is different when it comes to the example of some virtuous countries, European and non-European, in which at the end of the chain there is an absolutely identifiable product. But today we have cement factories which, by virtue of the law, can be much more free and therefore burn secondary waste, because they are considered to be a less controlled industrial activity, as should be absolutely necessary with regard to this kind of waste. I believe that in this sense we must be careful, because if we want to move in building a virtuous circuit, we must first understand what to put at the head of the pyramid; then we will come to evaluate the final path. We now have situations like that of Malagrotta, to remain within the framework of Lazio, but there are also others that have been illustrated, that are not given as an element of alarmism, where we have already squadernato, unfortunately, those that are the damages, in some cases irreparable. It will then take hundreds of years to put those territories back into the original state and restore to the populations civil conditions of life within those vast territories. Here, let's try to stop first, changing the cut of our initiatives, the path, the perspectives. We do not see this in the other motions, but only in those in favour of which I said that we will vote, namely the one presented by the Mixed-SEL Group and the one presented by the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group]] and M5S).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u75	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, the motions put forward by the SEL and M5S groups are contrary to the practice of burning waste and to the implementation of the related infrastructure, regardless of whether they are incinerators, waste-to-energy or cement, regardless of the possibility of reducing emissions and the guarantees that citizens need to be assured of the adoption of the best sustainable techniques and the carrying out of strict controls and whether this practice can be carried out as a result of a waste cycle management process which in any case provides for the separate collection and recovery of potentially recoverable materials. It must be said that all three motions, even the one presented by the majority, do not distinguish between the use of the CSS, which has been in practice for several years, and that of the CSS-fuel, governed by Ministerial Decree no. 22 of 2013. All three motions do not take into account the fact that cement factories are already allowed to burn waste, after regional AIA: they burn animal meal, out-of-use tyres and waste in general and are paid to do so, and they also burn CSS that already exists on the market. In Italy, Germany, Austria, Finland and the United Kingdom, the industrial use of SSC and similar energy products is a well-established industrial practice. The inclusion of limits to guarantee the quality of the SSC and for the control of emissions carried out by the Ministerial Decree does not actually change the current situation, indeed it could introduce quality elements that we would like to check through an appropriate debate, which we ask for in the arrangements of our motion. Our motion differs from the others also for some stakes that it intends to include in the debate on the possibility of burning CSS or CSS-fuel in cement factories, recognizing that this is a complex situation on which it is necessary to clarify and that requires a thorough examination by the Government immediately and also by Parliament, which must involve the economic world and the territorial authorities concerned. I would remind you that the balance in the calorific value of coal requires 1.8 kilograms of CSS per kilogram of coal. Therefore, there is undoubtedly an increase in the traffic induced by the transport of materials, which increases by 80% and presupposes a different organization of the transport, so as not to create unsustainable impacts from the local territorial realities. These aspects must be considered within the framework of plant authorisations by the regions. Moreover, we must take into account the fact that, as highlighted in our motion, the regions and local authorities of the North - we would like to emphasize this - have achieved self-sufficiency in the differentiated management of their waste, giving priority to the criterion of proximity for the purposes of recovery and disposal, which allows administrations to reduce the additional costs of transport and avoids citizens from lending their territory to dispose of waste from other territories. According to our principles, it is necessary to identify some restrictions for the circulation in other Regions of the CSS coming from municipal waste, guaranteeing however the criterion of proximity and implementing strict controls so that the plants of transformation of the municipal waste in CSS are still located inside each Region where the waste is produced. The transformation of waste into CSS must not become the excuse to allow the transfer of municipal waste outside the regional territory. The citizens must then be properly informed upstream, not downstream, of important decisions such as those taken by the decree; and they must be informed of what is happening in their territory and of the projects that the Regions and individual cement manufacturers intend to implement for the use of alternative fuels and fossil fuels. Unfortunately, there are marked differences between the various territorial realities of the country in terms of controls. Therefore, a network of inadequate controls, often with the satisfaction of the local authorities, can make the system workable, allowing organised crime to be included in the waste management cycle. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the system of controls throughout the national territory both through an environmental monitoring network of pollutant emissions from cement factories and through checks and investigations on the process of training and management of SSCs used in such plants. The possibility of burning CSS or CSS Fuel in cement factories therefore presents itself as a very complex situation, of which the communities of the territories that live around the cement factories are very concerned. We therefore call for an in-depth examination by the Government and Parliament, which must also involve the economic world and the local and regional authorities concerned. Our motion attests, however, to a pragmatic approach to the issue, as is characteristic of the administrators of the North League, who, as I said in the illustration of the motion, over the years spent as local administrators, have contributed to the realization of excellent practices of the management of the waste cycle. Our motion, therefore, goes in this direction. Therefore, the Lega Nord Group considers it important, before any action to regulate the use of the SSC, to promote an in-depth debate on the matter by the relevant parliamentary committees. We therefore reject the Government's proposal that we should remove this peremptory part of the promotion of the debate before the use of cement factories, because we are not satisfied that the Government will consider the opportunity to do these in-depth studies. As a Group of the North League, we believe that these insights should be done upstream. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u78	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, the motions in the vote are born in response to the decree issued last February by the then Environment Minister, Corrado Clini, to use municipal solid waste to feed the clinker's cooking ovens, the main component of cement. This measure has been implemented and in line with the relevant European provisions. It is a solution based on the end of waste principle, i.e. the cessation of the waste classification provided for in Article 6 of the 2008 European Waste Directive and in order to alleviate the problem of disposal of the garbage, even by ripping it off the circuit of the organized underworld. The substitution of traditional fuels with alternative fuels is strongly opposed by some environmentalists, for whom the combustion of waste in cement factories involves a variation of the emissive type of those plants, in particular dioxins and heavy metals. It should be made clear that these are not the famous ecoballs, much less waste taken from roads, but fuels obtained from complex industrial treatment and regulated by specific legislation. The use of SSCs in cement factories is widespread throughout the advanced world, leading Europe, which has even declared it one of the best techniques available. So in the Netherlands, Germany, France and Austria (and I don't think these are countries that are not at the heart of their citizens), just to give examples, the CSS constitute a large part of the fuel used in cement kilns. These are all countries where separate collection is at much higher levels than in Italy (e.g. in Germany, 50%). This shows that recycling and recovery are not contradictory. In Germany, Holland and Austria, they burn waste from Naples transformed into CSS. In Italy, CSS's demand is still blocked by the complexity of bureaucratic procedures due to the lack of social consensus: when it comes to burning, the revolt is immediately triggered. This is 6 million tonnes of waste that could be absorbed by industry. Today, however, we are at a standstill at 600,000 tonnes. Why are we at 8% in Italy, despite the immense problems of waste management that our municipalities have? Evidently, many in our country are interested in continuing the use of landfills, which are despicable of the various infringements that the EU has imposed on Italy in this matter, or in the construction of new incinerators, which are unaware of the inevitable protests of the population. Meanwhile, our European competitors use waste shipped at a high price in our country and turn it into CSS to use it in their industrial processes. As regards the formation of dioxins, this depends on the presence of chlorine and combustion temperatures; in fact in cement factories the presence of chlorine in furnaces is minimal, both for process issues and for respect of the quality of the final product. So, not only is there no harm to health, but the production and use of CSS contributes to minimizing the use of landfills and would reduce the waste disposal tax by around 14%, according to some estimates. According to a study by Nomisma, the savings for local administrations and, therefore, for the pockets of citizens in which I think many do not want to get their hands (let's really do this), would be about 210 euros per tonne of waste. The Legambiente itself admits that burning CSS in cement factories does not worsen polluting emissions and, indeed, imposes more restrictive legal limits and, therefore, the use of better abatement technologies. As Stefano Ciafani, vice president of Legambiente, says, burning CSS in cement factories makes them more controlled. It obliges them to monitor some pollutants - such as dioxins - which the law does not require to control when other craps like petcoke (coal derived from petroleum distillation) burns, or coal dust, much worse than CSS. These are the things that burn now in our cement factories. According to the environmentalist, therefore, with equal results, burning CSS in a cement factory is better than in an incinerator from the point of view of CO2 emissions, it being understood that cementic emissions produce them independently, pollute themselves and from the point of view of health are still a problem. That's the quote. The motions of SEL and the 5 Star Movement are based on unjustified alarmism, in the assumption - wrong - that industrial practices commonly applied in other countries are harmful to health. I therefore declare our Group's vote against this. The motion signed also by the representatives of the Environmental Commission of Civic Choice commits the Government to find the right balance between environmental protection, industrial production and waste disposal. It gives, in our opinion, the right weight to the protection of the health of the populations living near the cement factories, because it conditions the disposal of CSS in cement factories to the respect of precise parameters and environmental controls. At the same time, it goes in the direction of reducing the competitive advantage that foreign cement producers today have for being able to use CSS, could alleviate the costs of municipalities (and therefore citizens) for waste disposal. Once again, as in the case of Ilva di Taranto, it is necessary to find a high compromise between economic development, respect for the environment and the defence of public health. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u81	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, Mr Arrigoni is right to say that we are opposed to incineration. But this is not an ideological position: we are opposed to incineration after at least seven years of studies and hearings, first as simple citizens and now also as an institution. We've audited the CSS for the environment doctors. The data reported are not ideological: they are reliable and accurate data of scientific studies. So - I am sorry to have more time than my medical colleagues who had a lot to say and had to do it quickly - we must note that with waste incineration we clearly have a heterogeneous and difficult to control matter; we have an increase of 421 milligrams in mercury emissions, of 4.1 milligrams in lead emissions and an increase in nanoparticles. In fact, they have explained to us that with the increase of heat PM10 particles (which are those of pollution) disintegrate, lose mass and become up to 1,000 or even 2,000 times smaller; when they cool, unlike dioxins, which tend to regroup, due to lack of mass they do not have the ability to regroup and therefore remain fine dusts, which arrive in the foetuses. I have seen the photographs that my colleague Gaetti produced in his studies, and I invite you to carry out a search, because this is not ideology. I call on all of you, who have a huge responsibility, to deepen these studies, because it is very serious what we are going to do. Yet, all this has been highlighted, but I do not want to lift you from listening to him again. In the same way, it has already been pointed out that we are failing the European directives on the production of nanodusts, and in fact we have been taken over by the European Union several times. Also with regard to the waste hierarchy, the last European report of May 2012 has been mentioned, stating that the waste hierarchy must be fully respected and that - this is the real crux of the matter - burning recoverable waste will be banned by the European Union since 2020. So, what do we do? In my opinion, this is the point, this is the focal point: we simply don't call them waste anymore! In the transition from the previous legislature to the current one, there has been an abuse - because it is a matter of this - which is not formal but substantial. In fact, on 11 February 2013, the 8th Commission of the Chamber of Deputies rejected the so-called decree Clini, but only three days later, on 14 February, the ministerial decree was published. It is lawful, but how many lawful things are unjust? It was already in the drawer! This has also been pointed out, but I want you to reason with me. Why is this forcing, this haste, this new demeaning of Parliament, by means, moreover, of a government that was resigning, that was leaving and that had to deal only with the ordinary? Was it a requirement to do the right thing, or was there the very strong lobbying pressure of cement producers? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]] How is it possible not to respect the opinion of the 8th Chamber Commission (a decision taken conscientiously: the reasons for the refusal must be read)? Then, this happened, but with that forcing it was established that the CSS is no longer a refusal. I see at least three very serious points here. First of all, unlike what my colleague Dalla Zuanna has pointed out, it is not true that there are accurate procedures for transforming the refusal into CSS according to Article 184-b of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 3 April 2006. That is not true, because in the transposition of the European Directive, Italian law provides that it is sufficient to make an accurate manual selection. Does this mean turning a waste into a by-product? In my opinion, that is not the case. In fact, it has also been said that we do not have such facilities to treat waste and turn it into CSS, as happened in Campania with the CDR. This creates very serious problems. But it is enough to make - precisely - an accurate manual selection. Moreover, the CSS certification is issued by the same manufacturer. What guarantees do we have of what we are putting on the market by eliminating the designation of refusal? What does it mean to remove the designation of refusal? First of all, in 2020, when the European Union tells us that we can no longer burn recoverable waste, we will be able to answer: "Keep it!" And I do not make the corresponding gesture (study by Di Battista, but I am not Di Battista). We can tell Europe that the SSC is not a rejection. So go! Burn it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then, this refusal can circulate freely. Today the refusal is subject to rules established by laws, so it cannot circulate regularly; with this forcing, instead, the CSS can circulate freely throughout the territory. In addition, Article 184-b of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 lays down certain conditions under which the product coming from waste, from a processing, can cease to be called "waste": it must spring from careful processing (and this is not there), it must have a market (and this is there, because we have the market), it must be the object of specific purposes (and this too there is, because we have to use it instead of fuel). The same article, however, in point (d) of paragraph 1, also states that the use of the substance or object will not lead to a total negative impact on the environment or on human health. That doesn't fit. Therefore, in my opinion, the CSS cannot be included in the post-consumer materials for which the refusal status ceases. It's a rejection. Among other things, it is a solid urban waste committed to special waste and burned in impacting plants, category 1, which are harmful to health. But we do not say that burning oil or coal in cement factories is not a problem: it is a problem. But burning waste is a bigger problem, not only because the product you burn is heterogeneous and difficult to control, but also because you burn a material that you have to recover. The problem of thermodynamics, to which my colleague Mr Martelli referred, is a real fact. How much energy is needed to produce a material that we then do not want to recover and instead burn it claiming that we produce heat? We need to shift our attention to the issue of energy problems. At other times I have been saying this in this House, other times my colleagues have said it: we have to draw up a national energy plan of different approaches. Instead, we are continuing with hydrocarbons, drilling. We have auditioned ENI representatives who contradicted everything that had been said in previous hearings. We have the problem of waste, and instead of really recovering it, as the second raw material, we want to burn it. We are merely subjugating to the interests of particular lobbyists, when the interests of the people are different. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is something else and must be respected! Stop! This is not an infinite linear world that we can consume without limits. This is a circular world: what we take we must put back into the circle. It's a circular world. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u84	SMALL (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary-General, our Group will vote in favour of the motion tabled by the majority, at the first signature of Senator Morgoni. It proposes a comprehensive set of indications on the potential use of secondary solid fuel in certain specific types of industrial plants: cement plants in particular. The document sets out as an expression of a first phase of direction oriented to respond with concrete initiatives, I would like to say 'of doing', to complex issues in environmental and health protection that require urgent action to supplement the policies that have so far been activated, in the light of the increasing increase in the production of waste and the search for new solutions, in the light, moreover, of the need to provide, at all stages of implementation, clear indications to the local communities closest to the plants. Given the vastness of the matter, it is only possible to dwell on a few points. The first point is as follows: In particular, the motion requires the Government a series of actions that, if read in an isolated way, may seem obvious but for which, on the contrary, an overall analysis is required, aimed at highlighting its methodological significance and the potential of the system. I'll explain. What, on the whole, the motion requires with force and immediacy is an activity of comparison with existing experiences, of careful analysis and technical-scientific analysis of the effects of each action, without preconceptions, hasty conclusions and lack of checks declare a priori the percorsibility or non-corribibility of a solution. The second point I would like to make is the following. It should be recalled that the re-use for energy and productive purposes of secondary solid fuel has already been the subject of special discipline, in particular - as provided for in Ministerial Decree No 22 of 2013 - regarding control activities. In the same way, the results of experimental scientific studies have made it possible to detect an improvement in the emissive impact of the combustions carried out in cement factories when CSS was used in co-combustion. However, there are questions to be answered in detail on the combination of technology - human health - and the environment. Thirdly, while maintaining, therefore, a constant activity of technical research that allows to update the technological and operational conditions to be followed carefully in order to allow the use of CSS in industrial plants, initiatives are proposed to the Government closely related to the concept of transparency in the application of industrial processes. Precisely in order to combine the pragmatism of the initiatives with the protection of the health of the citizens and the compatibility with the environment, there is a system in which the use of secondary solid fuel is subject to constant monitoring and information. In addition to the provision of specific rules for the full compliance with Community provisions and the establishment of appropriate monitoring bodies, it is important to require the activation of a system - as already mentioned in other interventions - of permanent environmental monitoring, with the obligation to publish results on line as they are collected; in this way a clear and dynamic system of comparison with the territory where the plants are located is launched. Among other things, it should be said that this scheme for the control of effluents and monitoring and reporting of operating conditions can be ensured by effective and reliable systems for detecting indicators, both general and punctual, against reduced costs. It is clear, then, as a system of authorizations for the exercise, structured on the basis of elements of clarity and equipped to provide continuous information, it is a tool of greater guarantee for the success of investments too often subject, in our country, to continuous uncertainties - I would say uncertainties until the last bolt, with a joke - with the very harmful consequence of discouraging investors. The fourth point to highlight is the following. It is therefore a question of sharing a method that subsequently leads to the construction of an implementation model of greater guarantee than the policies so far followed. It goes without saying that such a step also requires a constant and objective search for the instruments that will demonstrate the greatest degree of adequacy to all the underlying problems. The motion thus provides a set of very precise methodological indications (many twelve points) which require a strong guarantee of the seriousness of the approach. These include a commitment to update sector legislation as a result of the suggested process. Fifth, it is considered appropriate to recall the comforting experience - also mentioned in the motion and in other interventions - of other European nations, in some of which the reuse of waste in cement factories is a widespread, tried and tested practice, considered beneficial for the environment when compared with the use of fossil fuels and with practices of high compatibility. The technologies applied have allowed the combustion of SSCs to be recognised at European level as the best practice available with ever-growing heat replacement rates for fossil fuels. In 2011 these values were 98 percent in the Netherlands, 61 percent in Germany, 45 percent in Austria and Poland, 30 percent in France. Values that you comment on yourself. Sixthly, on the whole, the actions of analysis, information and monitoring are therefore asked of the Government immediately, so that the practice of the use of secondary solid fuels eventually becomes operational and I would like to say serenely applicable also in our Country, including among the good practices aimed at guaranteeing a long-term solution in the treatment of waste or of a portion of them through, it is clear, the preparation of specific guidelines to follow with scrupulousness. Many other points could be highlighted in support of the contents of the motion. What deserves the most from a final remark is the need to implement - it must be reiterated - a new methodological approach to the problem we are dealing with. In conclusion, the choices of action or non-action should not be the result of ideological sentiments, but require unprejudiced insights aimed at a complete transparency of the scientific results acquired for the benefit of citizens, businesses and for the very future of our country. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u87	Mr Manassero (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, the problem of waste and its disposal is one of those issues whose resolution will be strategic for the future of our environment and also, I think, for the economic turn of the same. The situation is complex and I invite everyone to face with the optimism of good will some ideological blocs by committing ourselves to putting in place all the energies deriving from our concerns in order to intervene where the norm allows us to improve and focus our attention especially on the issues of the protection of health and the protection of the environment. The debate in this House has been thorough and timely. I record the four points that we are concerned and involved about this problem. The production of waste is still too high and is characterised by growth which is in contrast to EU 27 data. The phenomenon of the illegal disposal of industrial waste, but I would also say the management of landfills and the management of waste collection, is still too much the focus of the Ecomafia and the malfare. The country must make enlightened choices, aimed at reducing waste, disposal/use of waste and this must be done to the best, to the fight against the evil that works and develops around the waste system. Respect for the environment, air, water and soil and, above all, for the health of citizens with proposals and instruments that give valid answers to the legitimate concerns of citizens for their health and also of the operators who have to operate on the market. Despite a movement of strong awareness and involvement of families, productive sectors and trade, the production of waste does not tend to decline. I am saving to the Assembly, which is attentive and informed, the data relating to the production of our country's refusal in relation to those of Europe. But while in Europe over the last five years the consolidation of the implementation of Community policies and regulations aimed at reducing waste destined for landfill and, in particular, biodegradable waste, has yielded good results, as there has been an important reduction in the production of waste, our country, in contrast, sees (ISPRA data) in 2010 an increase of 1.1 compared to 2009, with a production of just under 32.5 million tons of municipal waste. What worries us most, however, is that, always on the basis of ISPRA data, more than 50% of these wastes continue to be disposed of in landfills. We therefore need a policy that starts immediately with a far-sighted and comprehensive vision on this subject, which aims to define integrated solutions, aimed primarily at achieving European objectives (since we have seen that they have demonstrated their effectiveness on report data) and above all in line with what is defined as the hierarchy of activities, that is, prevention, treatment for reuse, recycling, recovery (however, when we talk about recovery we must also imply that energy recovery is planned; this we cannot forget) and finally (last and only last) their tombale destination through their disposal in landfill or incinerator. If we want to prevent the use of landfills and incinerators for the consequent risks of environmental pollution and health that concern everyone, as long as access to these methods of disposal is too easy and as long as there are no alternative solutions, we need to think about deterrent measures, therefore a strong policy on recycling and prevention. So, at this point, we cannot forget that recovery for energy production is one of the feasible ways. At this stage of the absence of other facilities, doing nothing or blocking means promoting the continuous disposal of waste in landfills or incinerators. I come from a Province of which I was also an administrator, the Province of Cuneo, which within the integrated waste cycle, managed entirely by the public, uses until yesterday the CDR-Q and today the CSS inside a cement factory. Having a cement factory inside a mountain valley, in a totally mountainous province and therefore in its mountains sees its richness, it has never been easy, neither before the use of the CDR-Q nor today, because the cement factories are polluting regardless of where they use fossil fuels. Therefore, the secondary solid fuel that is produced from waste, but that is not generic waste (it is not the solution of burning everything), must respect those classification and specification characteristics identified by European technical standards, laws and regulations that define punctually the conditions and requirements of the processing operations of specific types of product that only in the end can be defined as CSS. Always reporting personal experience, in our company that produces CDR-Q there is a maximum attention to these levels of production regularly monitored. The production and use of the CSS is therefore part of the different options on the waste process. From the data it is naturally better than the landfill or the resort tout court to the incinerator; it does not dissuade policies in favour of separate collection because it is a matter of working a different product than glass, plastic, paper, wet, everything else can be recovered differently. The use of CSS as an alternative fuel in cement factories is defined at European level as the best available technique (BAT), because it favours the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as well as CO2 produced by landfills. At European level - as has been pointed out earlier by the speeches - it is widely used: 98 per cent in the Netherlands and 61 per cent in Germany. However, what we cannot do is convince ourselves only of the possible goodness of this practice; instead, we believe it is important not to underestimate today and never the concerns expressed by local communities close to the plants that use CSS as fuel in cement factories and also all the citizenship, especially as regards the risk of increasing pollutant emissions, such as dioxins and mercury, with heavy consequences on the levels of protection of health, the environment, air, water and territory in the immediate and in the future. Today - I have this hope and optimism in me - we possess the necessary technology and intelligence to improve it, that is, it is time for research and technological development to be committed to achieving the objective of maximum safety for the health of citizens and for the protection of the environment. This remains the guiding principle for us. The wording of our measure is very detailed, so I remember only three fundamental points. The first is as follows: the protection of citizens' health, environmental protection, water, air and soil, through all the instruments we have listed, of punctual monitoring of emissions, of transparency of data and of comparison with citizenship, of involvement of local authorities and regions, of precise adaptation to European norms and standards. The second point is the withdrawal, immediately, of every act that goes in the direction of converting cement factories into incinerators. We want to avoid entrepreneurial activities being started on this chain before we have the comfort of the technical checks and the evaluation of the results, in order to ensure safety. Thirdly, it is necessary to speed up the system of controls both through the setting up of the Supervisory and Control Committee provided for by Ministerial Decree No 22 of 2013, which has the task of monitoring the process of production of the SSC and its use, and through instruments aimed at creating a modern and effective system of environmental controls, more generalized and aimed at the environment as a whole, useful to guarantee the levels of safety and to give answers to both citizens and market operators. I therefore declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour of the motion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u89	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u90	D'ANNA (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote against the majority motion, not so much because it intends to enter the debate on the health of the process of thermal incineration of waste, but because this measure would create an unsustainable effect in certain areas of Campania. We come from a region in which, in the diatribe between what is good and what is good, we have created twenty years of absolute paralysis. We continue to allow ourselves to export our waste to the Netherlands, with great cost for the Municipality of Naples and the Region. We have 8-9 million bales of such which are incinerated in the only plant that has been built, namely that of Acerra, overlooking the Municipalities of Maddaloni and San Felice in Gate (Province of Caserta), which, especially the Municipality of Maddaloni, has two cementifici. If the application of this rule were to lead surreptitiously to identify cement factories as the place to burn waste, we would have solved to the detriment of the populations of the province of Caserta the problem of the location of pseudothermovaluers through the use of cement factories, and we would have created in the city of Maddaloni a unique case throughout the world: a thermovaluer (the only one that exists in Campania and that is located in Acerra) four kilometers in line of air from Maddaloni, plus two thermovaluers in the two cement factories located in the municipality. Therefore, I invite you to take into account not a generic possibility of using the combustion in cement factories, but also to look at situations that seem localistic, but concern hundreds of thousands of inhabitants, who have not only been penalized by the installation of the only heat exchanger, but would see tripled in that area, through the use of cement factories, the air pollution that would be caused in that area. Therefore, I can only declare my vote against this motion. [[Applause from Senator Langella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u92	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u93	PEPE (M5S). Colleagues, what you are preparing to vote for is the death sentence of the Italian people. [[Comments.]] Let me explain why. You have to explain to me if this fuel that goes to replace pet-coke, as the gentleman said I do not understand where he has acquired the skills in the field, since in fact it burns the BTZ, an industrial fuel that I know having worked in that sector... Mr Caleo (PD). Colleagues senators, not gentlemen. PEPE (M5S). This is not about improving the combustion of the BTZ product used in cement factories, as someone wants to pass. What is happening is the institutionalisation of the disposal of toxic waste, which already happens in Italy. In Campania we already have 93 landfills full of toxic waste. We have thousands of sites filled with toxic waste. Do you want to see that it burns well in the cement works? Who are you fucking kidding? [[Happy comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u94	Senator Pepe, please use appropriate terms to where you are.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u95	PEPE (M5S). You're right, I'll say "sit down." The matter... president. You've already finished your speech, Senator Pepe.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u98	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I believe that the ways in which he has addressed the other senators by calling them gentlemen of unqualified competence are absolutely unacceptable. I say no more about the turbulentness, which I believe cannot be accepted. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, LN-Aut, GAL and For Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u101	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in line with what Mr Ghedini has said, insults from your benches, from you, fellow senators, towards Senator Pepe are equally unacceptable. They too, therefore, must be resumed by calling the senators to order. Everyone can express their opinion and if this constitutes any violation of the Rules of Procedure that we must stick to, but the insults while a person speaks are not correct.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u102	Colleagues, any senator has the opportunity to express his opinion and his vote in an indisputable way. He will then respond to what is happening in this House from the point of view of the insults to the dignity of the institution and of the people, which is a prominent value over any other conduct. The speech applies to everyone, but we must avoid provocations that provoke reactions. I invite everyone, now and forever, to avoid triggering a spiral that is then difficult to stop. Returning to the agenda, I would like to ask Senator Arrigoni if he accepts the request for reformulation of the final part of the motion proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u103	Mr President, as I announced in my explanation of vote, we intend to maintain the original wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u104	I wanted to make sure I understood correctly, Senator Arrigoni. Therefore, the rewording proposed by the Government is not accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u105	I ask you to speak, Mr President. I would like to make a comment on this. [[Protests from groups PD and PdL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u106	If you wish to declare your vote in dissent from the Group, Senator Fucksia, you have the right to do so, even if you would have done better to notify the Presidency in good time, as your colleagues have done.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u107	FUCKSIA (M5S). Excuse me, Mr. President. I would like to reflect on my perplexity with regard to today's vote, because in all the motions I found some very interesting aspects and at the same time of the criticalities. I do not think anyone in this House wants to be flooded with waste. We are all aware of the European directive, but perhaps it is the practice of what is being done to differ from intentions. I regret that no motion has specified that it would have been appropriate to distinguish the only refusal (or CSS) that could actually be burned in cement factories, to protect the environment and health. I am referring to those wastes which cannot otherwise be disposed of, in order to reduce the risks to 99.9 per cent... [[Protests from groups PD and PdL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u108	Please conclude and state your disagreement or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u109	FUCKSIA (M5S). However, I would like to say this, which has not been said, Mr President. I am referring to those wastes, such as the morchies of the tanks and the sludge, which otherwise could not be disposed of, while if brought to high temperatures, over 800 degrees, could produce live lime, which with the gurgling in water and carbon dioxide, as the only effect, and therefore with the production of lime and baking soda,... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (M5S). ...may only have an acidification of the soil. What should be specified is that a cement mill... [[Protests from groups PD, PdL and SCpI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u110	Senator Fucksia, I have already invited you to conclude twice: you cannot take advantage of it. If you do not conclude, I will have to take your word for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u111	FUCKSIA (M5S). I should like to end by apologizing, Mr President: what I wanted to say is that what is a thermo-to-energy plant has not been sufficiently distinguished from a cement plant... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u112	Thank you, Senator Fucksia, we understand. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 121 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 121 (text 2), tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 121 (text 2), 131 (text 2), 135 (text 2) and 141 (president). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 131 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u115	SANTANGELO (M5S). In this case, too, we are asking for a simultaneous vote by electronic means: if necessary, the Rules of Procedure may be able to amend the text of the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are already working on this. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in order to shorten the speaking time, I would like to ask you for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote, by electronic procedure, including for all subsequent votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u116	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 131 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 121 (text 2), 131 (text 2), 135 (text 2) and 141 (president). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 135 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, already made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 135 (text 2), tabled by Senator Morgoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 121 (text 2), 131 (text 2), 135 (text 2) and 141 (president). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 141. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, already made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on motion 141. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u118	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). I would ask colleagues to move away from me and try to respect the senator who speaks, that is, with the utmost silence. Please, Senator Centinario. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, can we wait a few seconds so that colleagues can get out? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invited colleagues out with the noise of the steps, not the sound of the conversation. Please, you can start talking, Senator Centinario. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am simply speaking to bring to the attention of the House a somewhat paradoxical situation which has arisen in a small town of 11,000 inhabitants in the province of Pavia, Gambolo. Gambolo is a municipality in Lomellina where many elderly people live. During the summer period there was a sign at the entrance of the post office with the following words: Post office closed from 5 September to 9 November for work. We asked the mayor if there had been a communication on the start of construction work, but unfortunately there is nothing. The fear is that Italian Post Office or those who do for it to Gambolo what happened elsewhere, that is to say start to close the post office, saying that it is works, and then, on November 9, will arrive the communication with which the citizens of this country will notify in the province of Pavia and will tell them: gentlemen, unfortunately the post office is closed. We hope that this will not happen, because we have seen that in Gambolo there are many elderly people and the nearest post office is several kilometers away. We will also present a parliamentary question, as well as carrying out this intervention, because we believe that such behaviour by the State, or in any case by the Post Office, towards citizens who pay taxes, perhaps elderly people who have worked a lifetime and who at this moment are also seen to take away this service, are quite unworthy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u119	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u122	PELINO (PdL). Mr President, I would like to ask the answer to the question which I signed and published on 18 July, Act 3-00249, among other things, as a matter of urgency, also in the light of the information that was given here yesterday by the Minister of Justice on the reorganisation of judicial districts.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u125	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to refer to a speech at the end of last night's sitting. You didn't preside, Mr. President, but Vice President Gasparri was there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I still know about it. Barani (GAL). My colleague Maurizio Romani spoke of violence against women, particularly as regards the fact that the House of Deputies had been refused the pill of the following day, in disapplication of Law No 194 of 1978. In addition to voting on the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women, it is necessary to revise Law No. 194 of 1978 and perhaps also No. 40 of 2004. However, Mr Romani is a doctor and I do not know why he did not intervene. I am a doctor who does not object to conscience and I make myself available to colleagues both in the Senate and in the House, for anyone who has such a need, very happy to give my performance at such an important moment, because if we talk about violence we intervene immediately. Allow me, however, to make one final point. Since we cannot be an anti-caste in alternate ways, I believe that colleagues in the House could also turn to the ASL and stand in line, like all citizens, leaving the Chamber and Senate service only for emergencies. What would be different would be if important votes were taking place in the Chamber or in the offices of the Chamber or the Senate: at that point it is necessary that you and the President of the Chamber Bodrini make sure that there are also doctors who are not objectors in the sanitary offices inside the Chambers. It is obvious that the parliamentarians should also be instructed, with health and sexual education, that there are methods that make sure that they do not require the use of the next day's pill. Sexual education should also be taken to the Chamber and Senate classrooms. I believe that the intervention of the double doctor and senator, Maurizio Romani, must be taken into consideration in preventing women from continuing to suffer violence and being properly educated also from the sexual point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u128	ROMANI Maurizio (M5S). Mr President, I completely agree with Senator Barani: I am very willing to prescribe the next day's pill. I didn't do it because I didn't know the episode, I learned it from the paper. I believe that those who are in here have had ample opportunity to do their own sexual education. I do not think the problem is that of a lack of education: I think it is a road accident, perhaps due also to man and not only to the female subject. Having said that, what I wanted to emphasize was the fact that in a facility such as the existing medical clinic within the Senate and the House there are all conscientious objectors doctors not available to prescribe the next day's pill. In general, I consider this to be wrong, given the existing law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u131	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, yesterday more than a hundred pages were delivered to the Supreme Court with the reasons for the ruling on the events that occurred at the barracks in Bolzano during the G8 in Genoa. The words of the judges leave with stone, listen to them: The absolute gravity lies in the fact that violence has unleashed against unarmed persons, others already in submission with their hands raised, other dormant people who have suffered unjustified, vengeful and direct violence to the humiliation and physical and mental suffering of the victims. A pure exercise of violence. He had been well understood by the leaders during the preparatory meetings of the raid, held in the police station, that the image of the police had to be "ransomed." Well, that was a way to redeem yourself. It's shocking. In the aftermath of the final closure of the judicial events that have lasted for twelve years, in which thousands of acts of barbaric violence have been examined, which count to the Bolzano 93 arrests with 87 people injured even in a serious way, two of which almost fatally, only some responsible have paid, others have got away with it. Starting with political and government leaders: Scajola didn't even resign; Fini and De Gennaro were also unharmed, as were the leaders and police officers who were not identifiable. Not to mention the 33 prescriptions. Among those who have paid and were convicted, Mortola, former head of Digos, today banned from public offices, has in the meantime managed to be at the center of other episodes of violence while he was transferred to head of Polfer. Canterini wrote us a book instead. But only after the final conviction. The state today, at the end of the story, must apologize. This Parliament will soon have to discuss and approve a law on the crime of torture (it will arrive in these classrooms), which also demands from us the European Union and which would have avoided the prescription to many, and a law on the introduction of identification numbers on helmets. But that's not enough! The Government and Parliament must start a profound reform of the entire security sector; introduce effective and meritorious criteria for the selection of staff, for agents and especially for managers; implement investigative services instead of militarizing the squares and the territory. It will bring more benefits to everyone, including the police and citizens, and much less violence and less trials. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr President, I was in Genoa, I saw what happened and I cannot tolerate the idea of further violence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-101.ana.u132	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 10.01 p.m.
