ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 896-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u5	Mr President, we have proposed to Article 3 amendments aimed essentially at abolishing it. We believe that, although it may be understandable that the situation of drug addicts and psychotropic addicts is still delicate, this should not, however, be regarded as a title for benefit. Therefore, if a person who is addicted or addicted to certain substances commits a crime, albeit a minor one, he must atone for his sentence in full. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefani, would you also like to explain the amendments to the following articles? STEFANI (LN-Aut). No, Mr. President. I will explain them later, so as to make their exposure more understandable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u6	Mr President, I am against Amendment 3,301.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u7	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u8	Amendment 3,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,301. SANTANGELO (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.44 a.m. and resumed at 10.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u11	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak about the vote and to ask you a question which I believe should be of interest to the whole House. Yesterday, after the explanations of vote in the Chamber of Deputies on the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No. 76 of 2013, the decree-law of employment, were concluded, the final vote was suspended because a second version of the text was received by the Senate. The examination in the Commission, the general discussion and the examination of the amendments took place in the Chamber of Deputies on a text which was not then put to the final vote. In view of the fact that the evaluation of the Committee of the Nine did not consider the wording of Article 9, paragraph 16-d, from the text, the oppositions left the Chamber and did not proceed to the vote. I am therefore asking whether the correct version is the first version that the Senate sent to the Chamber of Deputies or, alternatively, whether the second version is correct, and what text this House voted for, because in any case, since there are two communications, one of the two texts was wrong, and I wonder why. The suspicion is that, by removing the part related to the research institutions, that lack of coverage reported by the Accounting Office, corresponding to 13 million euros, has been settled. In any case, I believe that the examination by the House of Members has not been a proper examination, since the text and its amendments, discussed in the Commissions and in the House, was another one than the one voted on. But these are the problems of the House. I would be interested to know which text we voted on, which text was sent and why the Senate sent a wrong text to the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u12	Senator Calderoli, if you had been able to read the Senator's shorthand report, you would have already answered your questions. It is the fact that a sub-amendment, recognized as such, led to the emergence of that contested staff, at the request of Senator Azzollini. A material error was subsequently committed. I think it is understandable; we too have received a number of wrong messages from the House of Deputies. We have understood that it can be a human error, which - precisely - as such must be understood. I remember that Senator Palma, just yesterday, spoke of an amendment on stalking, which did not come in time (he came to the Commission well beyond the term); the draft anti-mafia law also contained some errors. In this respect, I think we can understand the situation. However, I would like to reassure everyone that the correct message has been transmitted, in accordance with the report of sitting No 83 of 30 July. The House of Deputies has taken note of this. Therefore, I can reassure you that everything has been clarified. I have also sent a formal letter, which has even been read in full to the House of Deputies, in which I have taken account of the situation. It seems to me - I repeat - that the situation is very clear. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President, also for your courteous earrings for not reading all the synographical reports. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She didn't want to be an ear tug. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). This means, however, that the shorthand report has not been read even by those who sent the first message to the House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, it was a humanly justifiable mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u13	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,301. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,301 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3-a of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 3-a.200. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I remind you, Senator Stefani, that the time available is over. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to give a brief illustration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give you just a few seconds to explain the content of the amendment. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, although we briefly agree on the possibility of having benefits for the companies that can then give the opportunity to the released prisoners to work, we have only raised a few considerations aimed at improving the text. In fact, there are other amendments, on which, however, there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission, aimed at extending the period of time to obtain contributions and benefits. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u15	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 3-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u16	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u17	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u20	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 3-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u21	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini Rita, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3- bis.200 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 3-a.207 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a.208. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3- bis.208, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a.209. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3- bis.209 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a.210. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 210, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 211. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 211, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 212. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 212, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 213. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 213, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 214. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 214, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 215. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 215, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 216. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 216, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 217. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 217, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 218. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 218, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 219. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 219, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 220. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 220, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3-a. 221. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3-a. 221, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 3-a. 222 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u22	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u23	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u24	Amendment 4,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u27	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments tabled in Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u28	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Stefani and Bitonci to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 4.201. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.202. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.202 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,203. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4,203 tabled by Senator Caliendo, then withdrawn by the proposer and made by Senator Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 4,204 and 4,205 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,207. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4207, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,210. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.210, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.211. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.11 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.214. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.14 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 4.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 4,215, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, until the following words have been put to the vote: I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 4.215 and subsequent amendments until 4.228 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.237. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4,237 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 896-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the agenda of the G4100 on Article 4 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u29	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G4,100, I shall return to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u30	Mr President, with regard to the G4100 agenda, the Government calls for the formula for introducing the device to be amended as follows: The G4100 agenda was thus reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u31	I ask the presenters if they accept the rewording proposed by the Government. WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, we accept the rewording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u34	Barani (GAL). Mr President, the Group of the Great Autonomies and Freedoms will vote in favour of this 'empty prison' measure, because we believe that this is necessary and indispensable. However, we do not do so with great enthusiasm because we could do more and better. Surely the reinstatement to the House of the specific recurring continuing crimes was not a good service. We have not had the courage to delete Article 3, which provides, in the event of a crime of theft in the apartment, that those who declare themselves addicts for less than a year have not been in prison; I remember that we have 3 million thefts a year and we have also encouraged the non-security of our fellow citizens. What we want to stress is that the House has made two major changes: increasing the penalty for the stalking crime, bringing it from four to five years (and I recall that President Palma complained that the Commission was not the relevant article), and that of the illicit financing of parties. As for stalking, I felt partially responsible and, since it was my guarantee amendment that had brought from four to five years the penalty for the crimes for which you could not ask for preventive imprisonment and having read in all the newspapers that you could release tens, hundreds, hordes of people who had committed this crime, I allowed myself to go to visit the 200 Italian prisons to see how many people were going out. Well, from all my visits came out, confirmed, Mr. Undersecretary, also by the Government, that there is no one in prison for stalking. Therefore, the House, in an urgent way, changed a text launched by the Senate but in prison there was no one: absolute zero. Since I was making these visits, I also wanted to see how many prisoners were convicted for illicit funding of the parties, since they wanted to change that text urgently because the subject was of great social interest. Well, in this case too, there is no one in prison who is convicted of this crime, or awaiting trial. So, Mr President, the question that came to mind is: why did the House change the text? The House changed it because the newspapers intervened. Here it is legislated on the basis of what certain newspapers say because there is a class of justiceists, present in this branch of Parliament, but also in the Chamber of Deputies, who do not legislate for their intrinsic capacity but because they obey orders that come from certain opinion leaders, from certain newspapers, like We have a clear evidence of this in what has happened in recent days, which Mr Mussolini rightly wanted to read to us in this House yesterday. Mr Buemi pointed out that the Neapolitan comedy was not to be done here. Dear Buemi, the Neapolitan comedy is not even done in the classrooms of justice; it should be taught first of all in those classrooms the mother tongue, which is Italian, and above all the right. Ladies and gentlemen, the axiom must not be respected. Would you respect the surgery of a professional who misses the surgery and, instead of removing a kidney, removes the liver? Would you say you have to keep that surgeon operating? No, those who are wrong must pay and, like all citizens, must pay the magistrates, as well as doctors, engineers, lawyers: anyone who is wrong, of course in Italy. There can be no caste above all that, in the name and on behalf of the Italian people, does damage, like that of the criminal justice, which cost 31 billion to the Italian people (and always, indeed, in the name of the Italian people). Mr President, we believe that we should approve this text which we are considering at the third reading, because it is necessary to ensure that the constitutional dictation is applied very simply. Our Constitution in the fourth paragraph of Article 13 reads: It punishes all physical and moral violence against people who are still subject to restrictions of freedom. The third paragraph of Article 27 lays down: Penalty cannot consist of treatment contrary to the sense of humanity and must aim for the re-education of the condemned. The first paragraph of Article 28 provides: The officials and employees of the State and public bodies are directly responsible, in accordance with criminal, civil and administrative laws, for the acts carried out in violation of rights. The same article, in the second paragraph, provides: In such cases, civil liability shall extend to the State and to public bodies. Again, in the first paragraph of Article 32: The Republic protects health as a fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived, including of course prisoners. Not to mention the dictates of the European Union, dear President Manconi: more must be done with his Commission; the government must be forced to ensure that inhuman treatment is no longer carried out in our prisons. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Article 3 provides: No one may be subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Well, the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly accepted the appeals of the proposers, especially with regard to matters relating to the administration of justice, both as regards the duration of the proceedings and as regards our institutions of punishment. Since 1999, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, with the adoption of Recommendation No (99)22, has called on the Italian State to urge prosecutors and judges to use as much as possible alternative measures to detention and to limit the use of imprisonment, both for rights reasons and for matters relating solely to the prison emergency. The above recommendation points out - I read - that enlargement of the penitentiary park should rather be an exceptional measure because, in general, it is not suitable to offer a lasting solution to the problem of overcrowding. It also states: It is appropriate to provide for an appropriate set of sanctions and measures applied in the community, where appropriate graduated in terms of seriousness. Finally, it provides: 'Member States' - and Italy above all, I would add - should consider decriminalising certain types of crime or requalifying them so that they do not require the application of sentences deprived of freedom.' I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is a step forward, it is a breath of air, but the problem still needs to be resolved. How? With an immediate reform of justice, to be done urgently, because the sovereign people ask us, and of course, immediately after this, with the referendum presented by the Radicals, which I invite everyone to sign, for the indult and the amnesty. In this way we will be able to bring Italy back into line from the point of view of human rights and justice, to the level of international justice, and to have judges a little more prepared and that... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u35	Finish the sentence, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u36	Barani (GAL). That they listen less to their masters, that is, certain opinion leaders and certain newspapers that only hurt Italy and the Italians. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Falanga.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u39	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking briefly because I had the opportunity at first reading to explain to this House and to the Government the reasons why we in the Left Ecology and Freedom component of the Mixed Group very much share the philosophy that inspired the Government's action on the subject of prisons. In fact - this is even a paradox - on the specific issue of prisons we are in tune with the action of the government, probably even much more than some majority forces. It will be a joke due to the particularity of this political phase, but we recognize that there is indeed a reversal of the trend on this point compared to the past. At the same time, we also mark a very strong distance with other opposition forces. We have not shared what has been said in this House by colleagues in the League, in particular, but not even some of the positions of the 5 Star Movement. Instead, we listened carefully to the debate held in the House and considered it positive, unlike some colleagues, also because we think that the text returned here is better than the one fired by the Senate, since it is closer to what was the underlying inspiration of the Government. The only regret - as the Government and colleagues know - is that we would have preferred if the idea of dealing with this matter were born as an autonomous political initiative of Italy. On the other hand, we believe that it has been too stringent - fortunately, from our point of view - the pressure that the Court of Strasbourg has put on us, which through a pilot judgment has given Italy a time limit within which to take a series of measures to remedy the violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the one on inhuman or degrading penalties. But in any case, our judgment is a positive one. Of course, we think that this is only a first step, that we must continue along this path and that we must take action in particular on two laws which, from our point of view, have been those which, over the years, have strongly created overcrowding in prisons: the law on drugs and the law on immigration. I have heard in this House that overcrowding is an atavistic element of this country, which is of course true, because for many years now in Italy we have been dealing with a particularly degrading prison system. However, it is equally true that over the last ten years there has been, if possible, a further acceleration of the conditions of degradation, and I believe that the manifest law of all that has been wrong during these years is Law No 251 of 2005, the so-called ex-Cirielli law. As I have said several times in this House, it is an ultra-warrantist law towards ultra-guarantees and zero tolerance towards the weakest, the outcasts and those who live in a situation of difficulty. I would also like this House to tackle sooner or later a little less ideologically, blowing a little less on the fire caused by the factories of fear, the theme of repeated recurrence and specific recurrence. I would like us to seriously discuss this, in an unideological way, also because we could demonstrate, together with the associations, as well as in the event of repeated and specific recurrence of prisoners who can access the benefits and alternative measures to prison incur much less in the crime than those who instead have to atone for the sentence within the prisons. We are talking about percentages which, according to statistics, are even halved or reduced to a third. I also say this to my colleagues in the PdL and, in particular, to Senator Caliendo, with whom we have had the opportunity to reflect in the Commission on this subject: I would like at least to have a debate between us, as free as possible from ideological considerations and as much as possible linked to material conditions. I would therefore like to conclude my speech by hoping that, over the coming weeks and months, we can continue along this path. We will then, with great seriousness, also address another series of issues relating to justice, on which we are also working through the collection of signatures, both on some radical referendums and on some legislative proposals. We hope that the Senate will soon be able to approve the law that introduces the crime of torture. We believe that this is an act of civilisation, which I hope these House rooms will be able to approve very quickly, partly because the news of the last few days shows us how urgent this is: Mr President, let me finish my speech by talking about this fact. Yesterday I asked to speak in this House - although I did not do so in view of the extension of the time of the afternoon sitting - to put to the House a subject which probably has little to do with today's debate, but which has a great deal to do with the need to deal fully with open issues concerning Italian justice. The press has been talking about this these days and we hope that it will continue to do so, even by lifting the veils, breaking the walls of silence that are usually opposed to matters such as this. GIOVANARDI (PdL). Are we sending the Carabinieri to jail? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). A Tunisian drug dealer, named Bohli Kaies, was detained on the night of June 5 by a police patrol in Liguria, in the municipality of Riva Ligure, near Sanremo. Well, on the way from the carabinieri's car, from where he was stopped at the barracks, this gentleman, a 36-year-old Tunisian drug dealer, died. GIOVANARDI (PdL). You did the trial to the Carabinieri. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Since this gentleman is a drug dealer and since he is also Tunisian, it is possible that politics does not deal with it itself, while this same policy is very attentive to the difficulties and judicial troubles of people who are neither drug dealers nor Tunisians. And since I think that the state must protect in a sacred way (if I can use this expression) first of all the life of the one in his hands, I believe that this story needs great attention from the political side, during the coming months. [[Applause from Senators Uras, Cirinna and De Pin]] This country can't do Aldrovandi any more... (Senator De Cristofaro, moved, interrupts.) Excuse me. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG Groups]] . (Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Airola and Giovanardi). AIROLA (M5S). I'm not with thugs! Do you understand, Giovanardi? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator De Cristofaro was speaking. Other interventions are not allowed at this time, especially if we speak from one side to the next. Senator De Cristofaro, continue if you can. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I apologize to colleagues for waiting. I conclude by saying that over the years our country has already had to tolerate too many cases such as Aldrovandi, Cucchi, Uva, which are genuine open wounds. I hope that on these events we can break the wall of impunity and silence. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Cirinna and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u42	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in some respects we are a little sorry for the lack, in this third reading of the decree-law, of a confrontation in this House. No one has spoken, but I am glad that at least there is someone who makes explanations of vote. I have the feeling that everyone really wants to go on vacation. But let us realize that it was this Senate, this House, the last time, that dismissed a text with amendments that were well examined, well structured, well thought out. We see, however, that then comes back from the House a decree that in some of its parts, and especially on that of relapse, has been again modified. I wonder, isn't the government always the same? Isn't the majority always the same? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Why are we going to modify parts of such important matters? Too fast was given to the examination of the decree. And again, as we recalled in our last speeches, it is not possible to go and discuss penalties in a decree-law, with the tight times that a decree-law provides. But where is the need in this case? Where's the urgency? We are faced with a decree-law that affects the system of procedure. This method cannot be used. There are other ways to intervene. The urgency is that of overcrowding in prisons. But then, let us take real steps to resolve this problem: let us build new ones, let us move forward on this issue! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] As far as the powers of the Commissioner are concerned and their extension, well, let us continue on this too. But it is still a matter of extensions. We are again and always in Italy: a rule is launched, there is a way not to apply it and there is also a way to extend it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] However, this extension has not been made for judicial districts. Therefore, in some cases it extends, for others it does not; it changes the extension depending on the subject. Overcrowding in prisons is a problem. We have understood this, although - and I still remember it and I regret that we continue to raise the same issue - it was proposed to carry out cognitive investigations in this area, but they have not been initiated. In this way we already admit that we do not know the problem fully (and I do not want to say anything about this). Do we know there's a problem? Let's analyze it. How many people are gonna get out of prison with this decree? To what extent? How will you quantify? Nobody knows. What does it change, though? What's important? It is important that our citizens see that the norm is always made Italian: one small piece is placed here and then another one is placed. It affects the procedure and the code, but the overall view is lost. And the feeling of the citizen is to ask himself whether this crime will be prosecuted, whether it will punish those who have committed that crime and what punishment it will have. And the criminal will say that we are in Italy and that somehow he will find a way out of prison. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are talking about suspension of the sentence, early release, home detention and permits. True, human beings are the ones who have to go into prison. We know they are human beings, but in a true system of law, one must know that if he commits a crime he goes to jail and pays. Wrong people pay! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The possibility of redeeming oneself, the possibility of seeing each other again and the possibility of being re-educated must be allowed, but if we go to talk about the relapses - we said that in the Commission, justice in the Senate, and here again in this House - we must remember that the relapses are the relapses. We thought we had actually made a good assessment, but no: the House changes it, and we go back to talking about relapses. We understand that the relapse could also be a person who committed a crime twenty years earlier, but it is not only that: the relapse can also refer to those who commit the crime and after two years, after a year or after a month commits another. We in the North League, therefore, cannot defend this measure. We have to fight it. And we oppose it. We oppose this measure and the one on testing, which will arrive on our desks in September. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is another measure that talks about putting people who have committed crimes free. That is not the way to deal with the problems. We do new prison facilities, we do what needs to be done. This commissioner, what does he do? We need to know what level the prison plan is. We really need to solve the problem, and not continue to procrastinate a situation that leads us to this type of buffer solutions, which do nothing but destabilize the citizen who can no longer understand, first, what we do; then, if there is a criminal code, what crimes are there, what are you doing. A person does something and doesn't even know if it's a crime. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What is our hypocrisy, of Italy and - I am sorry to say - also of this Parliament? It is that as always, even in this case, we talk about penalties, about increasing the penalty for the crime of stalking. Protective custody wasn't enough, and you raised the line. How do we solve the problem? I am referring here to what Mr Barani said, who said that we first introduce the rule and then raise the penalty for the stalking crime because we are now talking about the stalking crime in the newspapers. But it's not just about stalking, because there are so many crimes, so many hypotheses that are important. I remember some newspaper news (this is news that goes back a few years ago, when we were talking about indult, because these measures, at the end of the day, are indults): "Rome - Beneficial of the indult, he leaves the prison, returns home and then hits his wife in the middle of the street." Liguria - (...) arrested for attempted robbery five hours after being released from prison. And then another one where we talk about an individual who goes back to jail in record time, because he found the carabinieri, immediately afterwards, with a pair of scissors trying to break in. These are the cases before us. I also want to conclude by inviting you to go and talk to the victims of crime. For small or large, the victim of the crime suffers him. He suffers from theft and suffers, of course, from much more serious crimes. Let's go tell the victims when they see their executioner walking down the street. What will our citizens feel? How will we feel? But does justice exist or does it not exist? You tell these people what to do. We must not create a state where one - who does not say and do not want to! He thinks he can do justice for himself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Therefore, as a North League we still insist. I am sorry that we were left alone here in making a firm opposition to the measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are the only ones in this House right now. I would have liked to hear more statements. We would have liked to have dealt with all of you to a greater extent and instead we are in this situation. There's the problem of vacation. But what is the problem of holidays? Here we have a problem of crime, security and certainty of punishment! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u43	Senator Stefani, I invite you to conclude: your time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u44	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. We have a shortage problem in police and carabinieri personnel. We need to see more control at this point. Who's gonna check it out? Who's gonna check out who's under house arrest? Who's going to check our territory? Every day we read about crimes, small or large, that continue to happen. We need to make our lives safe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So we insist on saying no to this indult. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group [[They stand up and show a banner with the words: "Stop deception and illusions." Government Read at home. Immediately elections will be held and papers containing various written texts will be unveiled.]] You're from the LN-Aut group. Shame! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u45	I would ask the parliamentary assistants to take the banner and the various papers out of the Chamber. Senator Stefani, you finished your speech. She's gone beyond her time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u47	You have the right to do so. (Transmission between the benches of the LN-AUT Group). Sunta (SPI). Mr President, let the comedy run out, or rather the farce. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group raise red cards and use whistles). It is good to suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u48	I call on Mr Bitonci to work with the Presidency to restore order in this House, otherwise I would ask you to sit outside the Chamber. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group continue to display red cards and use whistles.) Sunta (SPI). President, stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We don't need referees. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Get out! Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bitonci, are there any more surprises, or are you done? [[Comments of Senator Bitonci]] Let's proceed with our work. Senator Susta, continue with your intervention. Please be quiet in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u49	Mr President, there are cases where perhaps we could suspend the sitting. Or do we have to allow this? I understand it's August 8th. [[Senator Crosio's comments at Senator Susta's address]] What do you want? Don't worry. I understand you're hot, but we all are. It's 40 degrees, and I understand that I can make trouble for you. [[Senator Crosio's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u50	Senator Susta, please begin your speech in an explanation of vote. Let's avoid provocation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u51	Sunta (SPI). Let us also avoid turning Parliament's classrooms into suburban theatres, however! [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u52	All right. Senator Susta, if you start talking, maybe we'll get back to work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u53	[[Comments of Senator Crosio]] Sunta (SPI). For non-replica education, however, thank you, President. I believe that we have come to the final lines of an important measure, Mr President and my fellow senators, which is not definitive. We know perfectly well that it contains partial and non-solving aspects of a huge problem: the effectiveness of the sentence, of the execution of the sentence and of the relationship that, in a rule of law, must exist between the need for the preservation and protection of the rule of law itself compared to those who violate the rules of civil coexistence. From this point of view, we sincerely feel that we do not need lessons from anyone, but we also believe that the rule of law must promote the creation of all conditions, not only to defend ourselves against crimes, but also to prevent them and, above all, to prevent them in the future. Of course, none of us is deluded to erase evil from society; no one morally deludes himself to building a perfect society, but the public value of the effectiveness of the penalty is directly linked to the vision we have of the rule of law, of the values of the Constitution, of our being part of the democratic order. While we support Civic Choice's vote in favour of this provision, we must also remember the truths. We know that it is a partial measure, not a decisive one, but it represents an important step, also from the cultural point of view, for the affirmation of some values and for the completion of a process, which took place thirty years after the end of the Second World War with the launch of the Gozzini law, which will have to find further improvements and changes on the way of redefining our sanctioning system and the limiting tools of personal freedom to make the community more protected and protected compared to the spread of crimes. However, we must tell some truths and debunk some elements of propaganda. Seven years after the indult, the indulgent relapses are 33.9 percent (I thank Senator Manconi who provided these data yesterday); the unadulterated relapses, i.e. those who serve the sentence and who then turn out to be relapses, are 68 percent: this shows that the prison sentence alone is not sufficient to redeem, amend or guarantee that effectiveness of reintegration into the society that we all want. As far as foreigners are concerned (hear, hear!) the percentage of relapses that have benefited from the indult is even lower, being equal to 31 percent. I believe that the effectiveness of a measure such as this cannot be assessed in itself, for what we are doing today: the implementation of a measure such as the one we are examining, with the whole legislative system downstream of the condemnation, must start from a profound integration between the different administrations of the State. The social services of the territory must function, the regions must function in the planning and assistance phase, the ordinary judiciary must function well and the health system must function equally well. This is the way to give concreteness to the measure that we are taking and to the other measures that will complete the general framework of reform of the whole system of the execution of the sentence in our country. This is the culture that must inspire us. This is the way to deal with the problem and these are the reasons why, to a measure certainly partial and not resolving, but that represents a small piece that starts from the emergency prison and justifies the decree-law, we will give our vote in favour. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u56	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in these hours we are talking a lot about the rule of law, about the application of the past sentence in court and about many issues that are extremely serious and that, of course, I want to reiterate, cannot be subjected either to the comicity or to the hilarity of the House, but there is a rule of law that belongs to the State: the laws, which the State gives itself through its democratic bodies, must be respected in the first place by the State. It cannot be expected that citizens will comply with the laws, if the State, where it has responsibility, does not respect the laws that it has given itself independently and freely. It is clear that the situation in prisons does not respect these principles of the rule of law. Prison regulations are there and there is our Constitution that says that punishment must have a reeducational purpose. Yes, in our prisons there is a pedagogical but non-reeducational goal: our prisons are very often the universities of crime; we enter prisons with empirical experience, perhaps in some areas only and we go out with the "graduate" very often in other areas, because promiscuity, idleness, lost time, harassment and violation of the rule of law are a permanent fact. I do not say that I have only visited a few hundred institutions of punishment, but international conventions, the judgments of the international courts; it says, sometimes, even some of our own courts. Therefore, the action of the State to recreate the conditions of the rule of law within its institutions, the most delicate ones, is an obligation, not a faculty; there can be no folklore manifestation or other of the friends and colleagues of the League that can make us derogate from this principle. We must restore legality in our country to all levels, in politics, in the institutions and in the bodies of the State (I associate myself with the considerations of my colleague De Cristofaro: this fact happened in recent days is serious and must be verified in its various aspects), and we must bring the rule of law back to our prisons. Two words of truth on the question of indult, because the commonplace is one thing, while the data have already been recalled by my colleague Susta. The indult has produced additional benefit; it has performed a pedagogical function in this case, because the relapses that have benefited from the indult are less than the others who have not enjoyed it. The indult has a deterrent function in this case, because if you commit a new crime you have to serve the penalty that has been indulged. It seems to me that, from a certain point of view of deterrence, it has proven its effectiveness. I would like to acknowledge - in this sense I disagree with my colleague De Cristofaro - the much reproached ex-Cirielli law that I opposed in Parliament, in the House, when I was in that branch of Parliament. From the point of view of the data, which are recognized in the statistics, it also had a beneficial effect and, therefore, we must give Caesar what is Caesar's; we must reconsider with the utmost objectivity the issues and the facts as they are. I'll make one final point. I think we need to stop thinking that prison can be the touch of all criminal behavior. I also say this with regard to the problems of these days: the rule of law is guaranteed, if the penalty is certain (there is no doubt), if the penalty is balanced and if we are able to enforce it with justice. This recalls the principle of balance and the need to assess, first of all, the options that must be provided for in prison by the legislator and the judge. We should all do self-criticism, because if we adopt rules that empty prisons, on the other hand we introduce the detention system for crimes that could be sanctioned otherwise. The decree in the process of conversion, as I said yesterday, would need some further development. However, the situation is so serious and urgent - and it is not a matter of summer vacation, but of an urgency that it has been going on for years - that it is necessary to vote in favour of its conversion, while maintaining the perplexities of an inadequacy, which we certainly record for some points. I would like to conclude by recalling an issue which I have raised with the amendments and which has only been accepted on one agenda: we have a duty to reassure and calm public opinion - and I agree with colleagues in the League - but the answer cannot be just prison. The answer is the electronic controls that modern technology makes available and the different penalties that can be applied as an alternative to prison. Therefore, I urge the Government to make the effort to apply with greater openness the instruments that modernity makes available. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Longo Fausto Guilherme.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u59	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, without wishing to be presumptuous, we recognize that the 5 Star Movement probably has a great advantage: our point of view, our position, which allows us to analyse the issues under discussion, the legal provisions and the analysis of social, political and economic phenomena without the weight of the ideological or demagogic baggage of which I believe we have also heard in this morning's speeches. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I am referring to the attitude of the League, which continues to catch its old language of speaking to the belly, feeding fears, almost suggesting that approving this measure is about to leave thousands of terrible criminals free, on the streets of the country, which we know is not true. This attitude must be censored and we distance ourselves, once again, from the political language of the League, while obviously sharing its spirit, intended to emphasize the need for certainty of punishment, the defence of legality and everything that is present in our program and also in our battles on the territories. However, gentlemen, let us tell those who are listening to us: we are not talking - fortunately, I add - about an act of indult or amnesty. We are not releasing anyone, we are trying to calibrate two great shames, among the many that we have in this country: the shame of having an unworthy prison system of a civil country, which forces thousands of citizens and not citizens in indescribable conditions - and we feel the shame of our Italian being every time we verify, beyond the sanctions measures of the European Union, the conditions in which we keep the population held - and the shame of not being able - not us, excuse us, but the political system that has ruled over the last decades - to create a system of administration of justice that is fair, respectful, reasonable and worthy of a civil country. If the League continues to talk to the belly and to sobbilare the fear, then we wait for it at the entrance, to know what its determinations will be when we talk, not already about the extra-Community in prison, but maybe the leader of a political force whose political destinies will have to be evaluated also by the colleagues of the League! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let us also say to our colleagues in the SEL component of the Mixed Group, who, on the other side of the bell, continue to call for values that are more or less acceptable (I do not want to go into this matter here), but close the eye, and that is to say by expressing a favourable vote in this crowd of legal civilizations in favour of prisoners. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about this text. The advantage of the 5 Star Movement is that it is free from ideological baggage, from interests to be protected, from business that can be concluded in the sale and disposal of prison institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We're free! We are not so presumptuous as to think that we are better and perfect: we have so much to learn. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, let me finish. I am saying that we are not so presumptuous because we do not lose the opportunity to reiterate our inexperience, the fact that we are not politicians and that for the first time we are dealing with these shortcomings. Let us say, however, that here we have the pride of being able to say that we represent... [[Comments from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] Mr President, they will be able to criticize me even after that. I was saying that we are free to really take a pragmatic attitude, which is what, in my opinion, Italy needs. Turning then to the explanation of vote, I would stress that we have approached the measure in the vote by analysing it. There are two distinct parts to be assessed: one relates to the measures relating to the prison population and therefore to the possibility of home detention (and not already freedom in the streets), to promote the work of the detained population; the other part is that of the notorious Article 4 which establishes, or rather extends, the figure of the government's extraordinary commissioner for prison infrastructure. I remember that on this figure, already at first reading, the 5 Star Movement Group voted against the underlying concerns, not already on suspicions or ideological prejudices, but on the pragmatic verification of the experience of extraordinary commissioners in our country: this is a failed experience, behind which they have very often hidden, hide and fear will hide turbid interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, the M5S Group will vote against this measure, but I want to make it quite clear to those who listen to us that this is not an opposition to measures that tend to limit the detention tension: nothing in this regard, even if it could have been done better. I would remind you that we have made an attempt in this House. I myself have tabled an amendment to my own name to ensure that the offence of personal aid, referred to in Article 378 of the Criminal Code, falls within those categories of offences secured, i.e. for which it was not possible to have house arrest together with that of stalking, of which so much has been said and which have been dealt with by the frankly singular trick of increasing the penalty (let this matter stand still). Therefore, the Movement 5 Selle has addressed to you, colleagues, the pragmatic invitation to include, together with those of stalking and ill-treatment in the family and other offences excluded, also the crime of personal aid. This is the behavior through which prosecutors very often manage to acquire new food for investigations; in fact, the aider may take on a collaboration in terms of competition and complicity (to use non-technical terms) with respect to the crimes committed. Unfortunately, the vote of this House, blind and aimed at obedience to the Parent Company, which says yes or no, without even reading the text of the amendments, meant that the offence of aiding did not fall within those circumstances. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] I was talking about the pragmatic attitude. With our vote against, we want to say to the citizens and the population in prison that we have not put any obstacles in the way of the possibility of home detention in cases where the judiciary will prudently assess the compatibility it had with the requirements of public security; however, the figure of the extraordinary commissioner, despite the changes made to the Chamber of Deputies, finds us absolutely opposed, but not because of ideological prejudices. Let's go see what the extraordinary commissioner has done up to now, figure established in 2010 (say Franco Ionta). First of all, a premise: so far, in these three and a half years, the Extraordinary Commissioner has not created a single additional place in any prison. FINOCCHIAR (PD). That's not true! BUCCARELLA (M5S). Senator Finocchiaro says that's not true, but I already know what she's referring to, and I tell her that those pavilions are already structures made operational by the DAP, and so they're not the work of the Extraordinary Commissioner. Attention, the Extraordinary Commissioner has created zero prison posts! Rather, for what has the figure of the Special Commissioner served? To recruitment, to the assignment of positions to legal advisors (I am referring to the first commissioner's management, that of Dr Ionta), to the loss of 228 million euros of FAS funds, to which my colleague Giarrusso has already referred in his speech yesterday. The current commissioner instead, Dr Sinesio, has previewed to regime, by December 2014, the creation of a certain number (some thousand) of new places of prison in new pavilions to create, but from the data to us we see that of all the yards cited in the plan prisons of the commissioner (Syracuse, Lecce, Sulmona, Parma, Trapani, Taranto and Caltagirone) only that of Syracuse is to the state of precantierizzazione. Since the estimated time for the construction of the new 200-seater pavilions is four hundred days and for those with 400 seats of six hundred days, we can already reasonably say today that in December 2014, when you are to provide for the extension of the powers of the extraordinary commissioner, who will find himself judging the work of the commissioner at the end of 2014 we will be afraid, again, in front of that "zero". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your time is running out. BUCCARELLA (M5S). A few seconds, Mr President, just to refer to the fact that, thanks to a change in the Chamber of Deputies, a limit has been placed on the possibility of derogating from the Code of Procurement. This reassures us a little, but not enough to justify our vote in favour, because behind the possibility of abandoning the great historical prisons, those that insist in the historical centers of big cities such as Rome, Milan or Catania there are important economic interests. The government has accepted an agenda in the House... On the second call, I'll take your word for it. BUCCARELLA (M5S). ...with which he is committed not to resign Regina Coeli, San Vittore and the prison of Catania. Attention: the 5 Star Movement on this transaction of disposal of large assets, of securitisation of real estate in prison, will make its operation "breath on the neck." We will be using the telescope or the microscope to verify the absolute transparency of any disposal of real estate so that it cannot represent a profit operation in favor of friends or friends of friends, who sit or not in this or other classrooms (we do not care). Transparency and truth. Our vote will therefore be against. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u62	TORRISI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Berretta, the Senate will shortly finally approve the decree-law on the execution of the sentence. I believe that this can be claimed as a result of a composite majority (including the contribution of part of the opposition) and a correct dialectic between the two branches of Parliament. A text, presented by the Government to deal with the phenomenon of prison overcrowding, has been significantly improved by the intense and profitable work of Parliament, thanks to the changes made during the conversion both by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. First of all, it should be remembered that the limit for detention in prison is raised to five years (Article 280, second paragraph of the Code of Criminal Procedure). The Torreggiani judgment is often mentioned in relation to the prison overcrowding and the conditions of the prisoners, but we forget to mention the recommendations contained in it, especially as regards the application of protective custody and its duration, which should be reduced to a minimum, compatible with the interests of justice. With this measure, we have therefore helped to bring our legislation into line with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law of its supervisory bodies on protective custody. It is worth remembering that about 40% of the prisoners in Italian prisons are persons who are subject to protective custody pending trial, and it is regrettable that half of them will eventually be declared innocent. We have therefore helped to achieve a twofold result: an effective response has been given to the problem of overcrowding, giving a concrete reference to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and, at the same time, has put a stop to the abuse of protective custody, often used as an instrument of investigation. The increase in the penalty for the stalking crime, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies and confirmed by the Senate, adds to these objectives the protection of people who are victims of a despicable crime, such as that of persecution. In this respect, the other important amendment made by the Senate at first reading, which, acting on the discipline of house arrests, states that the judge, when laying down such measures, must assess the suitability of the domicile in order to ensure the protection of the offending person. Article 1 gives a response to the phenomenon of the so-called revolving doors: the deductions of punishment will be anticipated, so as to limit the entry into prison for short periods of detention. Specifically, for particular categories of convicted persons (pregnant women, mothers under the age of ten, persons in particularly serious health conditions) if they have to serve a sentence of less than four years, if they are in a state of freedom, they will be able to access the detention without necessarily entering prison. However, thanks to the intervention of the Senate Justice Commission, such suspension of the order of execution of the sentence will not be possible for those convicted of forest fire crimes, house theft and rip-off. Article 3 of the Decree-Law deals with Article 73 of the Single Act on drugs, which regulates the production, trafficking and illicit possession of narcotic or psychotropic substances. The original text of the decree-law intervened to allow the convicted drug addict to be admitted to public employment. In the course of the examination of the bill of conversion at first reading, the Senate introduced additional requirements for the application of the measure of the work of public utility; in particular, the work of public utility can only be arranged with reference to a different crime committed for a single time, in relation to its condition, and it will still have to be a minor crime and must not be a crime against the person. The Senate also included article 3-a to support the reintegration of ex-convicts into work. In particular, paragraph 1 intervenes on the contributory reductions for the employment of disadvantaged persons, while paragraph 2 grants a tax credit to the companies that hire prisoners, granting a monthly tax credit to the maximum of 700 euros for each prisoner admitted to outside work, and 350 euros for each semi-detached prisoner. Article 4 extends the tasks assigned to the Government's Special Commissioner for Prison Infrastructure, who will be able to continue in his activities of extraordinary maintenance, restructuring, completion and extension of the existing prison structures, without, however, underestimating the importance of the small prison structures, the maintenance of which will be promoted. In order to make the planning and implementation of the prison plan more transparent, the Senate has added the obligation of an annual report to Parliament, and some amendments, approved by the House of Deputies, have limited the powers of derogation over the procurement code. As you can see, albeit briefly, I have mentioned some of the many and most significant substantial and positive changes introduced by the Senate during the first reading, which were largely confirmed by the House of Deputies; changes that are in line and often reinforce the original spirit pursued by the decree-law, imposed by the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, of an incisive action of deflation penitentiary, without which this can mean the renunciation of the inevitable demands of security of citizens. The Torreggiani judgment of January 2013 condemned the Italian State because of the absence, in the internal law, of effective instruments of protection of the rights of prisoners, especially on the side of the injury produced by the phenomenon of overcrowding. This decree represents a first urgent response: the objective is to promote the decarceration of the perpetrators of minor crimes, without prejudice to the use of imprisonment against those sentenced for crimes of particular gravity. The real urgency of the problem can no longer allow - I say this to the friends of the League and also to the 5 Star Movement - exploitations or ideological divisions, or the search for consensus. It is necessary to tell the truth: it is not a masked indult or an amnesty; it is the moment of seriousness, responsibility, affirmation of the principles laid down in Article 27 of the Constitution and Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. What needs to be clearly clarified, then, so that there is no margin for ambiguity, is that it is not a penalty discount: the penalties remain, as they have been paid, the sentences remain, the certainty of the penalty is not affected; the execution of the penalty is changed as an alternative to prison, in line with the objective of social recovery and rehabilitation declined by our Constitution, which corrects in a modern and consistent sense with its solidarity spirit the principle of punishment as value itself, as remuneration for no other reason than that of suffering. The measure before us is therefore motivated by reasons which every citizen can appreciate, because of common sense and legal civilization. From this point of view, therefore, this legislative intervention does not mean to go back one inch compared to the action against crime, on the contrary, those who are socially dangerous will have no other chance that this and the other laws allow. This measure represents, as I said, a real structural measure, a point of balance between the needs of security, certainty of punishment and recovery of the sentenced person; as integrated and enriched in the parliamentary process, it will be able to have a substantial and positive impact on the prison system. That is the sense of the work done on several occasions in the Commission and which we are doing in this House. It is a first step, I repeat: it is right and necessary to carry it out. To deal with this situation, we need emergency measures such as these planned at this time and longer-term interventions that we are still dealing with in the Commissions. It is for these reasons that I announce the favorable vote of the Parliamentary Group of the People of Freedom to this legislative text, in the conviction that the path to bring back the prison sentence and the conditions of Italian prisons towards a complete and definitive revision and reorganization does not stop here. That this measure represents the first step to create that climate of sharing necessary - called for by the Head of State - to face the reform of justice, that reform that the Italians ask us for justice for all. [[Applause from the Pdl Group and Senator Ferrara. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u65	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, with the decree-law before us, we are taking a first step forward; others we must take. The issue of prisons is a complex, very sensitive one, and it is clear that the instrument of the decree-law does not lend itself well to dealing with its complexity and to finding broad and shared solutions in Parliament. We had the need, as our Constitution provides, to do quickly, because the urgency is well-motivated. It has also been repeated several times in this House that the Court of Strasbourg has rebuked us, but with the Torreggiani judgment it has not been limited to a rebuke: it has imposed precise indications on us. That is why it was necessary to accept this decree-law, to improve it, as both the Senate and the House have done, and to approve it, as we will do in this House today. The Senate improved the text proposed by the Government. We have made sure to better select the crimes to be excluded from the benefits: forest fires, theft in the apartment, theft with tear. We have also made a proposal, discussed with the Government and approved here in the House, asking that serious and specific relapses be excluded from the benefits, and the Senate has thus voted. The House has made another choice, which does not convince us: it is a choice that does not agree with us, but must be accepted. Bicameralism provides for these solutions. On other points, the House improved the Senate text. For us it was important not to give wrong signals about the illegal financing crime of the parties: that is why on this point the exclusion from the benefits decided in the House is another step forward. A probably forced alarm was then created on stalking, but the House has received it and I think that even in the Senate we fully share this choice. The 5 Star Movement has repeatedly called attention to the function of the extraordinary commissioner. For this reason, in the House, where there has been cooperation with the Movement, it has been decided to strengthen control by Parliament both during the implementation phase and during the programming phase. We will have the opportunity to ensure that the Commissioner does not leave the line of legality in accelerating an answer that we need. Colleagues, we can safely tell the country that we have chosen a serious and rigorous way: the mobsters are inside, article 41- bis of the penitentiary order is not touched, the corrupt have no advantage. We have selected the crimes to be excluded from the benefits; someone else could be excluded, but we will have a chance to return. We can therefore finally say that we have taken a step forward; but we will have to make others. We will therefore challenge the Government, with which we will cooperate, so that we have more courage in bringing together two dimensions that often conflict: reeducational treatment, which is the function of punishment, and the need to ensure greater security for our citizens. In a mature democracy, more treatment, more education and more security must and can go together. We need to find the right solutions. For example, we must not divide ourselves on the issue of drug addicts, because we have found the solution that helps us to keep up the educational, treatment dimension, the possibility of better treatment, without giving in to any permissiveness; we must deepen this point, reflect together and find more advanced solutions. Prisons cannot reproduce a system of social discrimination: for those who are less wealthy, who are in difficulty and who live in marginalization, prisons are wide open and the penalties are severe; those who are powerful, those who are white collars have a thousand measures to avoid prison. We must avoid this heavy contradiction that we have in our country's prison system and make sure that the law really is the same for everyone. In these years we have thought, wanted, built a double track, but it must not be based on a social difference: white collar or unemployed, drug addict or immigrant; the difference must be between those who commit serious crimes (mafia association, corruption and other crimes of particular social alarm) and those who commit crimes for which it is possible to grant more opportunities for work, re-education, treatment within the prison system. We will therefore have to intervene within this framework and we will have the opportunity to do so already in September, when we examine the measure on the testing that came to us from the House. We also have the Senate's own initiative measures, such as decriminalisation, in which we can improve the capacity to intervene, without giving rise to imbalances, without exceeding permissiveness and without giving side by side to a discriminatory and social reading of the use of prison. Mr President, that is why I very much appreciated the spirit of cooperation and cooperation that has taken place, particularly in the Justice Commission, among all the groups. What we have witnessed today by the North League was a negative fact, and I am sorry, because in the Committee on Justice, both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate, an attitude of attention to merit, study and cooperation prevailed. This happened also with the 5 Star Movement and with SEL and, in this regard, I thank for the choice, announced by Senator De Cristofaro, to join with a favorable vote in the path initiated with the decree-law under consideration. We will certainly ask the Government to ensure that the Commissioner's use is correct and that a policy and an idea are followed, which we must produce. In these weeks of work in the Commission, justice has not convinced us of the idea of closing small prisons indiscriminately: some of them must be closed, but others must remain open, because we must have a different idea from what we have lived in our country so far and which has not borne good fruit. We must ensure that there is a differentiated and integrated circuit, because if we only have a model of prison, based on a concentrated pole, in which thousands and thousands of prisoners are imprisoned, we will not be able to differentiate the penalty, intervene selectively and achieve those results that our Constitution, the maturity and civilization of the country impose on us. That is why we will also have to discuss this aspect, namely the basic idea that the Commissioner will have to have and that the Ministry and the Government will have to produce. We will also have to intervene a little bit further ahead and have the courage to open a reflection here on the three degrees of judgment. We will have to understand that the current system is not able to give an effective and efficient response in the various degrees of judgment in our country: not only in criminal or civil, but also in administrative and tax. In short, we must have the ability to free ourselves from the obsession, cultivated in recent years, of social discrimination in justice and to recover a modern and advanced model, able to give efficient answers, with which we say to the citizen: your security is guaranteed, but be careful not to violate human rights and to ensure that the prison system is in a position to give an educational and treatment response. Can we do that? It is an open challenge and we in the Democratic Party will do everything we can to win it. This challenge can in fact help our country to emerge from the crisis, to restore confidence in itself and international credibility and to make sure that on this subject too ours is a great country and a better country. That is why I am announcing the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u68	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u69	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u72	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I saw five lights light up in a row where only four senators were seated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u73	Thank you, Senator Cotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u76	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, I must denounce a very serious fact: there is no freedom of action and there is no freedom to act as a senator. I have already tolerated (and I have not denounced this) statements concerning the behaviour of certain groups in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] However, I read today in the press that Senator Crimi sent live on Twitter some news about the work of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunity, despite the fact that there is a bond of secrecy about the activity of this body, a bond that represents the rule in that chamber of council. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups and Senator Buemi]] But some people don't know how to stay in a board room. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to ensure that the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure which assist the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities are respected. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, SCPI and Senator Fravezzi groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u79	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, you must allow me to reply to Senator Caliendo, who I invite to read in detail what I have written, rather than relying solely on the press. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] And I also call on the Presidency to take measures against me which it considers appropriate if I have violated any of the rules. I am prepared to subject myself to any sanctions that may have been applied in the event that he has violated any rule. The communications I gave were in fact of a general nature and concerned the conduct of the work and never - never - the contents, nor the names, nor what was said and by whom. Finally, I would like to add that all the minutes relating to the session, the summary reports that report in detail what we said in Junta, are published (for those who did not know) on the Senate's website. CALIENDO (PdL). You're wrong! That's what we said last night! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, let him finish. CRIMI (M5S). Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure for the Verification of Credentials states that there is a duty of secrecy with regard to the results of the checks and the prospectuses drawn up for the verification of electoral data, as well as the investigations of the offices held by the senators, and certainly not the work, their conduct and their order. Senator Caliendo, I invite you to read what is on the Senate's website, www.senato.it. (I tell everyone, for those who did not know it): on the page relating to the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity are published the summary reports of all the sessions where, Senator Caliendo, I am sorry, it is written, word for word, what you said, which I would never have allowed myself to do through Twitter. If you are unable to use these computer tools, adjust! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u82	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, yesterday evening in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities I put the matter with some of my colleagues. I was just talking about the rule of law with reference to the prison situation: the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, also applies in the Senate. The rules are those written, and the written rules say that the meetings of the Council are confidential, that there is an obligation of confidentiality. Regulations change. I have nothing against the Council's meetings being public. But these are the rules at the moment. And if we bend the written rules to every convenience of ours, there is no more rule of law! It applies to the sentences of the leader of the People of Freedom [[Applause from Senator Casini),]] But it also applies to Senator Crimes! That goes for Senator Buemi too! Otherwise it means that we are no longer in a Parliamentary Chamber, but in a tavern! [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups and Senator Albertini. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u83	Senator Buemi, please stick to the subject raised. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). And I'm not quoting bivouacs, out of respect for history, but I'm quoting taverns that are best suited to your behavior!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u84	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u85	Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities reads as follows: The members, officials and staff of any order and grade attached to the office of secretariat of the Junta, or who have cooperated, in any capacity, in the work of the Junta itself, are obliged to secrecy with regard to the results of the checks and the prospectuses drawn up for the purpose of verifying the electoral data, as well as the investigations on the positions held by the senators. This is Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure. Then, since these behaviours have been the subject of the House's attention, and I believe that the President of the Council will be able to give me a report on what has happened (the report of which the President himself assumes responsibility), the bodies responsible for this will decide on the matter from a disciplinary point of view according to our rules, which we will try to apply. At this point, the debate on this subject is absolutely closed. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and M5S groups.]] [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] I would like to draw the House's attention to the item on the agenda for the sitting. The Presidency has already spoken on this subject. There will be times and ways to continue, eventually. The debate is closed. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI, Aut and Senator Mussini groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u86	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the request for an urgent statement on draft law Nos. 356, 396, 406, 432, 559, 674 and 685. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. [[Senator Puglia is trying to draw the president's attention. Comments from the desks of the M5S.]] Senator Marcucci has the floor to explain the request. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am asking you to speak on a point of order. You have to give me the floor! [[Comments from the PD and PdL Groups]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I gave Senator Marcucci the floor. Senator Santangelo, please sit down. If you want, you can ask to speak up. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group benches.]] Senator Santangelo, I invite you to sit down. This is the Presidency's first call. [[Applause from the Pd and PdL Groups.]] Senator Marcucci, I give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u87	Mr President, I believe that the issue that we are dealing with is of interest to all of us and particularly to the Italians. Today it is almost impossible to find in all political groups someone who spends words of support on the current electoral system. It is not only, or so much, the disapproval made public for several years by the recognised father, at least until yesterday, Mr Calderoli, but it is precisely impossible to find statements, statements or interventions that boast the benefits of the electoral system introduced in 2005. On the contrary, there are serious defects on every side. Yet, by now two legislatures all attempts to amend the law have been frustrated. After eight years and three elections the Court of Cassation had to intervene, accepting the appeal of a group of applicants who raised doubts of constitutionality. The Supreme Court has put on paper what each of us has verified in its political experience before and after parliamentary, namely that the majority prize to the Senate creates an irrational mechanism that in fact contradicts the purpose that it would like to pursue: to ensure governance. The different bonus for each Region is added the Cassazione, leads to a random sum of regional prizes that end up eluding each other and can even reverse the result obtained by the lists and coalitions on a national basis. The Supreme Court then raised doubts of constitutionality about the mechanism of the so-called blocked lists, stressing that, with this law, it is at stake the freedom of the vote when the elector is taken away from the faculty of being able to choose the chosen one. There is therefore to be asked - I quote - whether it can really be considered free when the voter is taken away from the faculty of choosing the chosen one and whether it can be considered personal a vote that is instead depersonalized. The mechanism of blocked lists is also responsible for another disaster: the progressive disaffection of the electorate. How many times, in how many fora, in how many party initiatives, we have been approached by citizens, by voters, by friends who have told us: if you have already decided who should go to Parliament, if I do not choose with my vote, but your secretary, well, then I do not go to the polls at all. In practice, with the porcellum the vital and fundamental link of every representative democracy between the parliamentarians and their college, between the parliamentarians and their community of reference, has been scientifically removed. Before that, I was referring to attempts to modify the porcellum that had been empty over the years. One of the last, which many of you will remember, dates back to last autumn, when the central theme of the political debate, even then, seemed to be that of electoral law. The Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs, also thanks to the stimulus of the then President Enzo Bianco, the parties discussed and argued a lot about how to modify the current one. Then came December and the government crisis to frustrate any hypothesis of change. Last year, failing that commitment to finally send the porcellum to the attic, we all assumed a very heavy responsibility, a political responsibility that does not call everyone into question in the same way. It does not call into question, for example, my colleague Roberto Giachetti, who began a hunger strike on 5 July last year, which lasted 123 days. We lost a year: this is the bitter truth. And a year and an election later we find ourselves struggling with a law that will be sanctioned as unconstitutional and that we can really no longer afford to keep alive. Once again we needed a corsair political initiative, such as the request for urgent procedure initiated by Mr De Monte in the House of Giachetti and the Senate, to change the order of political priorities of this legislature. It took, and I am delighted, the clear, clear position of the President-in-Office of the Council to clear the field from interested illations, such as those feared by some who wanted to enshrine the will to change the electoral law in an attempt to obstruct or interrupt the work of the Commission. In fact, President Letta wrote: "Excellent emergency procedure decided in the Chamber for electoral law. Now everyone will have to assume their responsibilities. I'm no porcellum. Today we are trying to change this electoral law because it is unworthy of a democratic country, because it has altered the mechanisms of parliamentary representation, because it has created more ungovernability, because it has further weakened the relationship between elected and elected. Today we are obliged to change this electoral law as a matter of urgency, including to amend the responsibilities of the past, also in order to accept, albeit with months of delay, the appeals and warnings of the Head of State and the President of the Council. If we then started with the request for urgent procedure, signed by as many as 100 senators from the various groups, on the basis of seven draft laws deposited in this legislature which provide in various forms for the restoration of the Mattarellum, because colleagues, we need to reread the parliamentary and political history of recent decades through the electoral systems that have gradually been adopted. A story that can only begin with the referendary season started by Mario Segni in the early 1990s, and especially with that second referendum of April 18, 1993, date symbol of Italian politics. That day the Italians decided to cancel the Senate election system, a choice that was interpreted as a turning point in the majority and antiproportional sense. It is the sense of that turning point that we must today preserve and strengthen, starting, for example, from the clarity and governance guaranteed by the electoral law for the municipalities and for the mayors. Does this Parliament have the strength and ability to approve and share a radically new electoral system, for the good and for the sake of the country? That is a question we do not know how to answer today. That is why we must start from what we have to do: repeal the porcellum starting from the easiest way to achieve this objective, namely to place on the agenda of the 1st Commission and then of the House the draft laws that provide for the return to the Mattarellum. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this choice will take place as soon as possible and in the broadest and most shared way. I say this without controversial veins, but as an act taken by a reality that has also made its way in the center-right: we must avoid until the last rifts and divisions on the electoral matter. The larger the majority that will approve the new system, the better for the institutions and the country. In return, of course, there must be a pact, which unfortunately failed even at the end of the last parliamentary term: no more melina, no more instrumental delays. We must avoid repeating the history of 2005, when for the first time in republican history an electoral law was passed against half of Parliament to predetermine a result in the elections that took place the following year. I went to reread the parliamentary records of eight years ago, when, on October 13, 2005, the House sent the Mattarellum to the attic and approved the porcellum, which two months later was permanently fired by the Senate. I would like to pay tribute to the lucid prediction of two colleagues who then intervened in this House and scientifically matched the future that we had in our destiny. I am referring to Mr Ugo Intini and Mr Sergio Mattarella. Intini said, in the explanation of vote of the SD (Italian Democratic Socialists) contrary to the new law: A Parliament will be created, not of elected members, but of appointed members. And like the exponent socialist, the father of the law that was decided to repeal, Sergio Mattarella said: You are trying to make sure that those who will rule after you have to operate under less stable and more difficult conditions. Today, and I conclude, by overcoming the calculations of the parties and the evaluations involved, we can all together, ladies and gentlemen, respond to the hunger for democracy, to the desire to participate and to choose. We can simply do the right thing for Italy: the country asks us and we owe it to it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u90	[[Senator Ciampolillo points out that he wants to intervene. Comments from the M5S Group]] Senator Ciampollo, I gave the floor to Senator Nencini. Please, Senator, you have the floor. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I understand that I have the floor. I'm trying to figure out why they're freaking out. That's how I was raised, to remain silent when others get agitated. Now I exercise my right, since you gave me the floor. The electoral laws, when they are done, have goals to achieve. When the electoral law was drawn up, about which Senator Calderoli told us a significant part of history a few hours ago, that law, reported the newspapers after the approval, had three objectives: to fix in a bipolar setting the history of the Italian political system; to fix the Italian political system in European normality; to allow the maintenance and stability of governments. If we look at which of these three points has been reached and achieved over these years, it seems to me that none of the three can be considered to be achieved. The reason why we stress and endorse the reasons for the urgency of the amendment of the current electoral law is, in addition to a condition that concerns each of us, that each of us must be freer before the law is changed and after the law has been amended. A greater freedom that allows us, therefore, to choose freely the moves of each of us. The law, which has extraordinary and excellent nicknames, has achieved three reversed objectives: some of these children of the Italian political and social situation, others linked to a condition that this law has worsened. With this electoral law we have done something that was once done respecting the Constitution: we have modified the Constitutional Charter by depriving the Head of State of powers enshrined in the Constitution and effectively abolishing the centrality of Parliament provided for in the Constitutional Charter. With the existing electoral law we have helped the Italian political system to become more dependent on personal parties, in two-tone form and not only monocolour. Often the personal parties, have left the boss. We have overturned an English motto that has been at the basis of democracy: the motto "without a party not a leader" - we have overturned it without a leader - there is no party. It is the most serious vulnus brought to the history of Western democracy since the last century. The third condition that we have negatively achieved is that we have not helped Italian citizens to return to worry and to deal with public affairs. The first thing we must and can do is give citizens the right to choose and, in the meantime (for our Group has presented a bill now many weeks ago Senator Fravezzi), return to the status quo ante that allows us to set a criterion. Then, when we have set the framework for the future political-institutional system, we will be able to arrive at a definitive solution. This choice, first illustrated by Senator Marcucci, carries others, but above all carries one, and it is the declination of Article 49 of the Constitution exactly as Mr Calamandrei had then interpreted it. It is a declination that is missing and that has opened over time a vulnus still without scar in the Italian institutional history, because existing parties can correspond to an article 49 of the Constitution not declined and not interpreted, but to weak, fragile or non-existent parties must necessarily correspond to an article 49 of the Constitution that gives order to the structure and the many architraves of Italian democracy. This urgency brings us under the condition of defeating Bertoldo's cleverness that, as we all know, I never found a tree to hang from. Today the tree must be found and the urgency serves this, but it also allows comrade Briatore to finally spend a peaceful summer, because with a law that sets the reasons for bipolarism will know whether to vote Marina or Matthew. And it's no small matter. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Casini, Tomaselli and Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u93	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of the statement of urgency. We are doing this firmly because we have also expressed, through the presentation of a bill, the need to modify the electoral system in Italy. In our initiative we wanted to underline the fact that we must be able to combine representativeness and governability: in this historical moment we consider both requirements absolutely important and fundamental. There can be no model in this historical moment that makes our country system weaker from the point of view of governability, but at the same time it is no longer tolerable that representativeness can be so watered down, in these unique lists and in this impossibility to support those who, from the human point of view, want to represent us in the institutions and in Parliament. Not many days ago, the government received support from a large group in this House to address constitutional reforms and from several parts and sectors of this Assembly came a clear, very clear indication: the reforms must be profound, important and must also make a contribution to the change of the country, make it leaner and make the institutions more capable and suitable to follow the need for change that is felt in the country. We had imagined - and we continue to imagine and want, and we repeat this in this speech today in the Senate - that the electoral law can only be consistent with the institutional changes that we want to make. We therefore support this statement of urgency and the fact that it is immediately the competent Commission and the Assembly that address the issue of the reform of the electoral law as an act due first of all taking into account the statements of unconstitutionality expressed. Let us put the cards in order, but let us not change our vote today, the path we will take in the Commission and then in this House, into a definitive de profundis for the constitutional reforms that we have already incardinated in this House. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]] Let us not throw it, as usual, in caciara or (something better suited to the place where I speak) in politics: let us not ruin what we have already, in a fast and concrete way, started. This work can be carried out in parallel, and I share the position of Senator Nencini: let's get in line from the constitutional point of view and restore a minimum of flexibility from the point of view of the electoral law, but let's reserve the right to give our country the electoral law more consistent with the new structure that we want to create and do this with great urgency. You see, we've come from a very special time. We forced Italian citizens to vote in one way for local elections, another for regional elections, another for politics and then according to the European electoral system. This too must be taken into account in the construction of a harmonious system: the need to give uniform choice to Italian citizens from the point of view of the electoral system. We will retrace the long discussions that have taken place over the years, for example on whether to be the mayor of Italy or to modify the electoral system of the administrative, but it is clear that in the constituent effort that this XVII legislature wanted to start we cannot fail to take into account the overall coherence of the country system. So, if we say today with conviction that there is an institutional, democratic urgency, dictated by the Constitutional Court, to change the electoral system and we do so - I repeat - firmly and with the right urgency required by the matter, we cannot but historicize this measure and not frame it when we live. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a time when the Group of the Grand Autonomousists and Freedoms believes that the legislature has a duty to provide the country with the tools to start a season in which institutions are an integral part of society. The personalisms and body struggles of the last few days give us a strange, wrong impression. Every morning in the newspapers they follow the statements of this or that other political leader. It seems to me, Mr President, that today we can change the well-known saying as follows: I declare, therefore I exist. Today it seems that the certificate of existence in life of the politician is determined by what he manages to declare or to have the news agencies resume. Yet, in living parliamentary life, we realize that, beyond the proclamations or the short turn of glory of a title in a newspaper, Parliament has the clear ideas or, at least, through its official acts shows that it has the clear ideas on what we imagine and want to give the country. Among the ideas that we consider to have clear respect for what our country needs are certainly constitutional reforms, and we have always considered electoral law a fundamental tool for the implementation of the constitutional plan. So, objectively, we are dealing with this issue with some discomfort and we cannot have an idea of what the Italian Parliament reserves for itself and for the institutions when they complete the reforms. We also know that the worst evil would be that of a follow-up to the Constitutional Court's ruling; we know that it would be worse to pretend nothing than to do so. Therefore, in this spirit and with these intentions today we will vote in favour of the statement of urgency, but stressing the wish and genuine adherence to the spirit of reform that this House has already shown it wants to have. We will make all our efforts and efforts so that we can really get to the definition of constitutional reforms as soon as possible. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u96	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we welcome the fact that we are going to vote today - hopefully - on the statement of urgency, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft electoral law. As you know and as my fellow Senators know, already at the time of the request for the urgency procedure to frame the constitutional bill for the start of constitutional reforms, we have strongly stressed - it is one of the issues on which we have focused on the issue of the draft law establishing the Committee for Constitutional Reforms - what we have defined as a sort of safeguard clause. I am referring to the fact that it was absolutely essential for us that Parliament, as a preliminary step, should begin to examine the issue of electoral law, repealing the porcellum and, as a safeguard rule, restoring the pre-existing electoral system, namely the Mattarellum. It is a battle that we will continue against that approach of constitutional reforms. In fact, I recall here that the electoral law had been placed at the end of the complex and comprehensive reform of Part Two of the Constitution. In addition, Mr President, I will offer you a complimentary work that we have done as a Group. It shows that an institutional structure of a certain type does not have to follow a certain type of electoral system; it is enough to see the experience gained in other European countries. This demonstrates the fact that, in an attempt to include in the title of the constitutional bill for the establishment of the Committee's electoral matter, we have read the attempt (we continue to repeat it, then we will see it in fact) to bypass, not to address an urgent issue. But urgent why? I would like to remind you that two years ago, precisely in these hours, we were printing the signatures collection forms, after having promoted, together with other forces, to other parliamentarians, the referendum for the repeal of the porcellum. I want to remember this because the collection was extraordinary: in a few days 1,2-1,3 million signatures were collected (and we take into account the months August and September). This shows that there was a huge expectation on the part of citizens who wanted to rule against this law, demonstrating that that law was clearly identified by citizens, long before the order of the Supreme Court was issued, which today again raised the questions of constitutionality with respect to the majority prize and blocked lists, as a strong impediment to the free exercise of voting and the possibility of choice. In fact, it identified itself as a very strong and further element of the expulsion of citizens from the institutions and of disaffection, linked not only to bad politics but also to the fact that politics had not been able to amend an electoral law that had given birth to parliaments of nominations, without guaranteeing absolutely - as has been understood in the course of the various experiences, as well as of the current one - the governability, nor clear majorities because of the system identified for the Senate. This element has also been reversed over other elections, in which this electoral system does not exist, and the mechanism of mistrust, expulsion and total detachment of citizens has eventually expanded further, as has been apparent during other electoral rounds. I wanted to recall the referendum (thank you, indeed Senator Calderoli for having anticipated it) because we have always fought this system, even when Parliament was reforming the electoral law, then in the adoption of the porcellum, which repealed the Mattarellum, with acts of obstruction and therefore with open-faced battles. Then we said that this would create a vulnus in the democratic system of our country, a strong separation between Parliament and the citizens, would give rise to a superpower of party secretaries and, unfortunately, alas, all this happened. The first act that the SEL component of the Mixed Group made was the presentation of our bill to repeal the porcellum and restore the Mattarellum, I repeat, as a safeguard legislation. There may be different opinions on the electoral system, but we believe that the Mattarellum had two strengths; it guaranteed a choice mechanism on the part of the citizens, because the collegial system ensures that there is a much more direct relationship between the citizens and the parliamentarians, and between the parliamentarians and the territory and, above all, it offered a very clear system from a majority point of view for a bipolar system. We could probably also discuss this matter, further deepening the issue of the electoral system. But what we are concerned - and this is the fundamental question - is that there is no longer any alibi on the part of the parties and parliamentary groups, that there is no alibi, as I have heard in some speeches, to wait for constitutional reforms, but that we should proceed without delay with the urgency procedure. I remember the ruling of the Constitutional Court that, alas, rejected those referendums, saying that an electoral regulatory vacuum would be created; today our draft laws do not create this void. We must therefore proceed without any kind of alibi, postponing the choices on constitutional reforms, in order to repeal the porcellum. This will be the possibility that we will put in place, before the final ruling of the Court, to recreate, even if it is not simple, a system of public confidence in the institutions. I really hope that this time it is the Senate that the House will take seriously, that everyone will assume their responsibilities in voting on the urgency procedure today and in quickly starting all the routes in the competent Commissions to repeal the porcellum. This will be a very important act, much more important than what you think you are doing with constitutional reforms through the derogation from Article 138 of the Constitution, which we consider very serious. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senators Gambaro and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u99	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, after yesterday's speech, I would have given up speaking, having already announced my vote in favour. However, in relation to the speeches that have been made, for the spirit of realism and love of truth that was introduced yesterday, I would like to add a few details to the story. I first listened to the exponent of the Socialist Party speak with respect to the law. Yesterday I said that there were the dwarfs of the right and left who had asked for the lowering of the barriers; today I say clearly that the Socialist party was one of the applicants for the lowering of the barriers for which even the best of the losers could be elected. Then, always for the sake of truth, because I don't want to upset someone for being forgotten, it is clear that when I said that there was Follini, Secretary of the Union of Centre, it was equivalent to saying that the same request came with the same force from President Casini then. So let us give Caesar what is Caesar's. I thank President Marcucci for his recognition of paternity, at least until yesterday, as he remembers, but also in past years. You began by saying that there was not one who expressed a word of praise for this electoral law. It is true, however, that I the mea culpa, mea maxima culpa, have done so many times and I think that we should all do it here because, in alternate phases, the government was the center-right and center-left, and nobody changed the law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Palermo and Marino Luigi.]] I remember the period of the Prodi government: there were two years to change it, but Bersani said that they could not change it because the Communist Refoundation would not have given its votes for the return to the Mattarellum. But there were the votes of the League, so there was a majority: therefore, it was not wanted to do so. The porcellum was not abolished to return to Mattarellum because Veltroni was convinced that by that law he would win. That's all, and that law remained in place. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] However, let us give Caesar what is Caesar's. Yesterday I said it was Fini who asked us for blocked lists, but I don't want to do a wrong to DS: the inventor of blocked lists are then DS, today PD; It was you who invented the blocked lists, you Tuscans, because they did it in Tuscany the first example of a blocked list in the history of our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Then it must also be noted that if you want to deny the blocked lists completely, it is right that you do not ask for urgency for a bill in which I do not remember if 178 or 173 seats are still on blocked lists: if you have to elect, they all elect in the same way, from generals to soldiers. Keep 173 seats in the House only for the generals, "n' va minga ben." But let's try to clarify the ideas with respect to the process that we will have to follow. At first I had heard a part arguing that electoral reforms should be a consequence of constitutional reform. It's a road, a line of thought. Some say: let us secure the current electoral law also in view of the assessment of the Constitutional Court. There is uncertainty here, because among the draft laws that are urgently required on the one hand there are those that actually have a transitory character; there are at least two or three that instead introduce an overall reform to the regime that seems to contradict, putting in writing the number of Members and senators in the law, the will to reduce the number of Members and senators. On this I believe that if the reform were to be carried out, a reference must be made to what will be the reduced number in the Constitution, without freezing a current situation. I mentioned the Constitutional Court. But are you so sure that the Constitutional Court will admit the appeal and decide on it? I am not so convinced because it would be the third time that the Constitutional Court, even if for different reasons, examines this measure. It has already spoken twice because of the referendums, giving a message to Parliament to change the law. I have some doubts about the fact that the Constitutional Court can declare an unconstitutional law that is mandatory, because at any time we may be called upon to use an electoral law; therefore, I have doubts as to whether it is unconstitutional, just as I have doubts that such an extensive interpretative judgment can revive the Mattarellum or introduce a threshold above which the majority prize is triggered. We must not think of the Constitutional Court either as a trap or as a solution to the problem: it is the political will that must be put in place, and that is what I am asking for today. Yesterday, at the end of my speech, I said that it is curious that the House should speak on 31 July and today we are here to declare urgency, and I also suspected that it might be the reason for a conflict between the two Presidents of the House and the Senate not to arrive at a solution. I have a suggestion, and I draw the attention of President Finocchiaro, because we could give an answer today. Having checked this morning, and as always happens, after 31 July has been declared urgent, nothing has happened to the House. So, if we are all convinced that this is urgent, I propose to President Finocchiaro: today we are sitting and today we are incardinating the electoral matter in the Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I also tell you why: not only for a competition compared to colleagues in the House, which sometimes takes us, but also because I am convinced that the House that begins the examination of an electoral reform cannot be what - like it or not - is more daughter of the "porcello," because from that came down a pre-constitutional majority, which everyone judges abnormal. The Senate is much more balanced than the House of Deputies, and it is therefore right that it should begin to deal with a subject that will also have a strong impact on its nature, considering the content of constitutional reform in the future. I know that many of my colleagues have booked flights, it is also clear from the working rhythms that the 'general August' has whipped everyone, but I am willing to stay this afternoon to proceed with the incardination of the electoral law, which will thus remain in this branch of Parliament. We would be so ready in September to resume our work on this matter, this time really and not by pretending. Mr President, I would ask you not to have the urgency of all the draft laws put forward as a whole, but to proceed separately, because in my view, for four proposals, I believe that there is an urgent need for three of them, since they relate to a regime-based electoral law. This contrasts with our pre-determination to deal with regime-based legislation only after constitutional reforms.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u100	Can you specify the numbers of the bill? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I would like to vote together on the urgency of the draft law Nos. 396, 406, 432 and 559: a single vote is sufficient on these measures because they actually introduce transitional rules. In a second vote, it could be decided on the urgency of the draft law no. 356, 674 and 685. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, we'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u103	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Choice Group will vote in favour of the statement of urgency. I remember that the current Government (an emergency executive, as we know) has bound - and has done well - its duration to an effective and timely process of institutional reorganization. It is important that, after this phase, a new path begins, with truly decisive elections to determine who governs, able to implement the legislative programme submitted to the voters, in an updated and balanced framework that includes new guarantees and counterpowers. And this cannot happen only with an electoral reform. But, as we have been repeating for a long time and as we have also argued during the debate on procedures for amending the Constitution, there is a pressing need to get out of the porcellum, out of the piggy, to use a famous definition, of which - we learned yesterday - Senator Calderoli was victim. Everyone tells it their way, but the real reason for the porcellum is another. So (do you remember?) The House of Liberties took more votes in the proportional arena, where the parties presented themselves, compared to the majority arena, where the coalition presented itself with common candidates. This was the case in the 2001 elections (the difference was over 1.5 million votes) and 1996; the opposite was true for the then Ulivo. Among the reasons for these different coalition returns, there was the fact that the electorate of the center-right tended to vote for the parties of the House of Liberty, but not always its candidates in the colleges. That is why we wanted to change the electoral law. Of course, this attempt had nothing to do with the idea of reducing fragmentation, of ensuring the formation of less heterogeneous, more stable coalitions. The fact was much simpler: it was thought that it could gain something more in the electoral challenge and above all to undermine the stability of the next government. But this is the point: the real piggy, let me pass the famous definition, is precisely to use the electoral law or constitutional reforms as the ground of a possible meeting, of mediation between parties that are in conflict with each other on the ground of concrete policies, giving - so was then - the League the devolution and the UDC the proportional, guaranteeing to Fini Roma capital. And then we'll see. Today, as then, the parliamentary debate should clarify precisely this: whether the reform can consolidate or weaken bipolarism, whether it can increase or reduce the fragmentation of the party system and whether, above all, it favours the ability of governments to last and decide. These are the questions to which we will have to answer and which represent the issues to be resolved in order to effectively improve the functioning of our democracy. Therefore, this also applies to today, because there are structural and constitutional problems that in several pretend not to see, like that of a government hung from the electoral results of two different Chambers, with young people between 18 and 25 years who vote only in the Chamber of Deputies and not in the Senate, pursuant to Article 58 of the Constitution, whose electoral behaviour is for now very different from the rest of the population. Therefore, even by aligning the electoral formula of the Senate with that of the Chamber, it is not at all said that the winner is the same in the two Chambers. So either you take off the vote of confidence in the Senate or you line up the electorates, and you get the young people to vote in the Senate between the ages of 18 and 25. Without this constitutional intervention, there is still a high risk of new non-decisive elections. Even the restoration of the Mattarellum will not produce such immediate results, and not only because it is a matter of redesigning and rewriting the colleges, but because any law based on one-name colleges - which is the solution in my own way of seeing better in relation to the relationship between elected and electors - in itself does not produce a sure winner of the elections in the presence of three almost equivalent camps. More generally, for about twenty years the path of rationalization of the parliamentary form has been pursued in terms of the innovation of electoral legislation. It is true that this innovation has been inconsistent, encouraging at the same time bipolarization and fragmentation, and also regressive - this is the case of the porcellum - but it must also be said that, after these contradictory interventions, the system did not seem able, even if it had been better urged, to configure itself as a basis suitable for the functioning of an efficient form of parliamentary government, because it requires a structuring, if not biparty, at least bipolar, with cohesive coalitions around a leading party, whose internal leadership, party, and external, government, is unified and undisputed and also requires that the number of coalition components be limited. In short, it requires another political system. In the absence of these basic requirements, electoral laws cannot function as rationalization rules, or very little can do so. As we know, the life of this Parliament can be short and there is a pressing need, as I said before, to get out of the porcellum, especially if we consider that the order of the Court of Cassation, which forwarded the acts to the Constitutional Court, poses the political problem of finding bridge solutions capable of healing the two major legislative defects indicated: we must therefore do quickly. We can try to outline two possible solutions on the two critical aspects: I say this only as a solicitation to face the node of the purposes. In relation to the relationship between the elected and the electorate, which is the simplest, and thus limiting intervention to a minimum, it is easier to foresee the soft overcoming of the long blocked lists, so the Spanishization of the current districts at a provincial or pluriprovincial level would be sufficient. On the other hand, with regard to the possible recessive nature of the majority prize, this requires clarification of the aims, because if one pursues the objective of a ruling democracy, in a similar way to all other levels of government, the most rational solution is that of the ballot between the two lists or the two coalitions most voted on in the first round, in case no one has reached the threshold, sharing the national prize also in the Senate. Taking other paths, such as the removal of the prize, directly or indirectly, means making an opposite choice to a ruling democracy, which is likely to repeat the path of the great agreements forced to the center, for a long time. I say this because Senator Crimi explained it in a very recent interview. The 5 Star Movement is concerned that there is less governability possible to accelerate the collapse of the system; it is useful that there is as much proportional system as possible to impose again the broad understandings so that the false prophecy of an equivalence occurs among all: "all are equal"; it is useful that the individual parliamentarians are more at risk in their autonomy and, therefore, not elected in single-member colleges. It is a choice that can only be made and motivated if you take that objective, but if that objective is considered wrong, that choice must not be made. Civic Choice believes that we must move definitively from a political conception and practice based on a choice of belonging to a political practice and a conception of politics based on the responsibility of choice for the government of the country. Civic choice will support this effort. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u106	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, while we are waiting for the Constitutional Court, when examining the order for the dismissal of acts filed by the Court of Cassation on 17 May 2013, to decide quickly on two questions of constitutional legitimacy relating to the current electoral system, we must reiterate some concepts, namely that the freedom of vote has always been understood as a prohibition of undue external conditioning that affects the determination of the elector and also what the need to offer them the choice between several competing and unblocked lists. We have already asked, with a written question, whether the Government intends to be a party to the judgment in the Constitutional Court and, if so, whether it intends to defend the constitutional legitimacy of the legislation before the Court and whether it intends to request the swiftest fixing of the hearing. In our view, very few people in this House intend to change the electoral law. A few weeks ago, in fact, we were told that the electoral law could be the subject of attention by the Parliamentary Assembly only after having put in place constitutional reforms; first it was necessary to change the form of government and form of state and then to draw up an electoral law consistent with the new architecture of the State itself. Now, a few days later, we are pleased to note that many people converge towards a goal that was still solicited by very few people 15 days ago. But here consistency is always something to be found with the lantern. We are of the opinion (although some of us may be studying philosophy) that we must pursue the objective of enacting a law that is perhaps not the best possible, but at least not the worst possible. To be with you, in fact, we have learned that at worst there is never limit. I now come to the subject of some considerations that I have also elaborated and above all listening to many reflections that, in fact, I liked, except to remind myself (I still do not have Alzheimer's disease and I remember) that precisely those who produce them then in fact adopt completely dissonant behaviors, not to say schizophrenic. Many have reasoned on the freedom of the elector: it is fundamental, in fact, in a democratic system to give back to the electorate the ability to choose, but if the list is blocked and you cannot express preferences, this ability of choice does not exist and this is the vulnus, the vice that has been charged to the porcellum of which Senator Calderoli has indicated who in the past - and not only him - has shared the responsibility. When the freedom of the elector is denied by an electoral law designed to ensemble democracy and to make the partycracy survive, what is achieved, not according to the 5 Star Movement, not according to Nicola Morra, but according to the scholars of politics, that is, the politologists? As an obvious and natural result, we get abstentionism, the citizen's departure from politics. This is a result that we are gradually becoming increasingly aware of, and it seems to me that in the last local elections (and I would also like to say something about this to my colleague Marcucci) we have, in several cases, obtained a percentage of participation in the vote of less than half of those entitled. If this is democracy, it is certainly at the forefront of our model of democracy. This electoral law many say that they did not actually want it, but many battles are going on fighting and not simply saying that they do not want what, in fact, is not opposed (there is the omission of office, political omission and so on); all these practices have produced a de-accountability of the Italian citizen towards his duties, but also, in my opinion, towards his rights. Our citizens today have very little awareness, unfortunately, of what is theirs and what is their right (in addition to what should be their duty) because, chasing the myth of the leader (which - and I quote Senator Nencini - comes from a party tradition), has dumped on the leader the responsibilities that must instead be of everyone. Now, we do not want leaders, we do not want leaders, because, in our opinion, in a democracy we are all leaders of ourselves. [[Comments and ironic applause from the PD Group. Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Senator Giovanardi urges me to remember a principle that we all marry in words: one man, one vote. It is you who have produced, on many occasions, and above all in this, an electoral law that does not allow this principle to be manifested to the individual citizen. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Come on, Giovanardi, when I listen to you, I won't interrupt you. Maybe I can think about what she says mentally, but I don't normally interrupt. Now, in order for democracy to actually be such, it must be based on a wealth of knowledge that must be shared. This wealth of knowledge can be obtained and built when we work on education and culture, when we do not allow, for example, the conflict of interests, on which I have not known for how many decades we have still been waiting for legislation. It is in fact useless to make electoral law, if then there continues to be an information system that makes only some can make themselves felt and can reach the free, in theory, intelligences of individuals, conditioning them. We should remember that the formation of determination, and therefore of individual self-determination, takes place on the basis of knowledge. But if the materials on which all this is built are filtered, screened and selected, we will simply have a pseudodemocracy, we will have a oclocracy, but certainly we would not have politia or democracy. I am beginning to conclude by explaining why we do not even like the law currently in force to elect mayors and local administrators. I come from a territory (and I am always tied to the logic of coherence), in which I find myself, in my provincial capital, elected in City Council a councilman who, elected in the UDC, votes and supports a center-right majority, while, elected in the Provincial Council on a support list of the Democratic Party (exactly Democratic for the Province), votes quietly for a center-left majority. We arrived at the paradox whereby on the same act, when the Province is called to decide together with the Municipality, the same gentleman votes with the right hand when he is in the City Council and with the left hand when he is in the Provincial Council. This is the democracy that we reject. This is the quantitative democracy for which consensus is sought regardless. We believe that consensus should be free. But if it is to be so, it must also be informed. The parties that led us to this result are perched to defend these positions. A few minutes ago I spoke to a colleague who told me that there is no explicit will then in the fact of agreeing on a project that is shared of rationality and common sense. We as Movement ask for this. We demand rationality, common sense and justice. The citizens are asking us to do this. Instead you simply atrophied a system, allowing a vulnus that was already incardinated in our Constitution, the one for which the party is pulled out of the possibility of control by the law. You have endorsed and legitimized, over the years, the partycracy. These are tense - I repeat - as old as the cupcake. The country is in decline. The country - I don't mean that it's in a coma - is living very bad years because we can't, because you don't want to change the system. We are here to represent that hope that Italian citizens, those aware and who have also been able to... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] All of us: I know that even in other worlds they demand an electoral law; only then the demands go forward, but these classrooms never accept them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u109	BRUNO (PdL). Mr President, first of all I do not want to leave Mr Calderoli alone: I too, let us say, am the father - you are the father - of the so-called porcellum. This is a statement which I have always made and which I like to make in the debate on the measure before us. It is true what Mr Calderoli says about the genesis of that measure. It will not escape someone who came from a so-called Mattarellum law, who had a presumption. Today I have heard so many positive statements about it. Then I invite everyone to reread what was said about that law when we had to make the legislative amendment. In particular, I recall that the colleges were designated by the parties as colleges A, B and C: A was the good one for that political part; B was the average; C was the lowest. It is no coincidence that Senator Di Pietro went to Mugello, and it seems to me that he had other territorial origins. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups]] Just so you know, who went to replace him? He went to replace Senator Arlacchi, his countryman, President, who was at Mugello. The vote rate was 69 percent for Arlacchi and 69 percent for Senator Di Pietro. Not only that, but the father of that law - this time yes, because he had only one father, Mattarella - to be elected to the Chamber, went to Trentino-Alto Adige to run. These are the facts that have happened. Today, however, I feel that Mattarellum solves all the problems. There are about 64 or 65 electoral laws in the world: there is no one better than the other, but the one that the nation deserves at that time. Probably that Parliament that chose the porcellum deserved that law. In fact, we were all deluded that the porcellum law could give stability and governability. A historical and numerical fact led us to that consideration. In fact, Prodi's coalition won in 2006 with about 46 percent of the votes, and so having the majority prize that brought it to 55 percent was definitely a fact that in democracy - as they say - it stands, and the same was worth for the Berlusconi government that, in 2008, won with a percentage of votes around 48 percent. I'm talking about the coalition. Unfortunately, the porcellum highlighted all its defects, especially for the Senate, in the first two electoral competitions, also because the idea of bipolarism has failed today. Today we have three, perhaps four coalitions, and the big risk is that if these parties all stood at around 25-26 per cent, with the current law a party that would take 26 per cent, then one more point than the others, could enjoy a parliamentary representation equal to 55%. This is the anti-democracy of the porcellum, which can occur. To date, the law has not shown its support for such a harsh criticism, but it could certainly do so. The concern of this Parliament is then to take cover. I agree with Senator Calderoli when he says that there will be no decision by the Constitutional Court to undermine this electoral law, but certainly the messages that the Court has already issued with the two previous judgments are to make us review, if possible, the elevator about the majority prize and to pay attention to representation. Therefore, I believe that we need to take care of this and, as soon as possible, put our hands on the law, and that is why our Group supports the request for urgency. But, I repeat, without making any escapes forward. I give a few answers to someone who said that we needed to intervene after constitutional reforms. That's it. Today, however, we are in an emergency. Therefore, we will settle for a debate, I hope as soon as possible and as qualified as possible, in order to arrive at an emergency electoral law - let us call it what we want - which cannot, however, be the definitive electoral law, which must instead be voted on and approved after discussing and approving constitutional reforms. In fact, if it is true - as I hope - that we are going towards a form of presidentialism or semi-presidency, there can only be the double turn, which we are not obliged to choose today. Therefore, the debate must be held as soon as possible. We agree to put our hand in the reform of the porcellum. Two last considerations. I disagree with Senator Calderoli when he asks to put reform on the agenda of the Senate immediately. I say that because this is your job, Mr President. We will certainly vote on urgency today. You know that the Rules of Procedure provide for the agreement between the President of the House and the President of the Senate so that together they will determine which of the two Chambers must deal with this measure first. If it were the Senate we would thank you and we would be ready to begin in the first useful session the examination of this provision. Similarly, I do not agree with Mr Calderoli on the separate vote on the various legislative proposals before us today. On the other hand, I would ask you for a single vote, because at the moment we are not choosing the right electoral law or the one which, according to political confrontation, will be chosen by the majority of this House. We can't share today. We must judge all the proposals, and on the basis of these there will be a free conviction. I also do not agree - and here I advance the judgment on the next measure - that there may be urgency with regard to ineligibility, decadence and incompatibility. This, because the law already exists; it can also be modified - for charity, the Senate can do this and other - but the urgency does not exist, since there is already a legislative apparatus that, in cases of ineligibility, incandidability and decadence, allows us to know what is the choice that we must operate. Therefore, our vote will be in favour of all the proposals, including that of my colleague, Mr Crimes, which we may have to delete for the electoral law party, while our vote will be strongly against the other party. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u112	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, with regard to the earlier request and also to simplify and make it clear the spirit, I would, unless the authors had to give up keeping some draft law on the list, of the idea that there would be a vote on draft law No 356 and another vote on all the others. Let me briefly explain why: the first is a regime-based electoral law; all the others are the security of the current electoral law. While I agree on securing security, I would not support the urgency of a regime-based electoral law. On the other hand, compared to my request for inclusion on the agenda, I believe that this is for the Commission, and I would like to refer to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, where we read: The President of the Senate shall inform the President of the House of this in order to achieve the possible arrangements. I prefer that we inform the House to reach agreement and not that the House warns us that it has begun. I would remind my colleagues that, in the last parliamentary term, President Vizzini skillfully put electoral reform and constitutional reform on the agenda since the first sitting, precisely to take possession of this issue. I continue to believe that it is better for this branch of Parliament to take the first examination and then pass it to the House with a certain majority, because otherwise, once we have entered the House, we would find ourselves adopting a blocked text and not even putting our beaks in relation to the branch of Parliament that we represent. It is an indirect request that the Presidency of the 1st Commission be given full autonomy, and it has nothing to do with the split vote. If the proposal were to be maintained, I would ask that the first bill be voted separately and then all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u113	I'm clear. The request is for a separate vote on the bill n. 356 and a single vote for all other bills. On this request, since there is a diversity of views, I refer the matter back to the vote of this House. I put to the vote the request for a split vote made by Senator Calderoli. The Senate doesn't approve. So let us vote together: we have put the problem and the House is sovereign. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law no. 356, 396, 406, 432, 559, 674 and 685, related to the same matter, advanced by Senator De Monte and other senators. It's approved. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It is obvious that the Senate voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u114	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the request for an urgent statement on draft law No 452. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Crimes has the floor to explain the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, which intervenes with a few minor amendments to Legislative Decree No 235 of 2012 on incandidability, has a name and a surname, and is called 'Clean Parliament'. Why do I say that? Because it is with emotion, an emotion that I believe all my colleagues can share, that today we can say that everything started from here, and it was September 8, 2007. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It all started from here and I would like it to be clear: on September 8th 2007 we found ourselves in all the squares of Italy in what was nicknamed the V-day. That day was born what brought us here today. On that day, in a single day, 350,000 citizens, faced with 50,000 necessary signatures, signed a bill, namely "Clean Parliament." Find me a similar precedent and I will be happy to acknowledge it! The bill provided for three simple corrections: the incandidability for the condemned (fortunately then introduced by Legislative Decree No. 235 of 2012), the limit of two mandates and the restoration of preference. There were three corrective actions, at that time indispensable, in our opinion, that could be immediately made operational by the law in force, just to slightly improve that porcellum, which with some correction could also have had a different name. In the context of the draft law on the reform of the electoral system, we asked for its urgency to be declared, for some reasons, the first of which is that, if we talk about a new electoral law, we would also like to see our three proposals on the restoration of preference, on the limit to electoral mandates and incandidability, incarnating the bill together with all the others on electoral matters. It is good that the electoral law also provides for the causes of incandidability and ineligibility. It is also good that the electoral law has stability. In this country we change electoral law every two or three legislatures: when the air changes, we change the electoral law to get results closer to those who govern at that time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Our request is to listen to the voice of 350,000 citizens. I would like to point out that this is a bill of popular initiative, which has been closed for seven years in the drawers of the Senate, brought to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and held there, for two years, to jump from sitting to sitting. There have also been hearings, and if I recall correctly, Mr Grasso, a shorthand report shows that you too have been audited by the 1st Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u116	It's true.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u117	CRIMI (M5S). Because we have read the acts and tried to follow the bill in all its steps, hoping that one day it would arrive in this House. All we wanted was for Parliament to say yes or no. We did not necessarily want a vote in favour, although we certainly would have liked it, but we asked for at least one law of popular initiative to enter this House: at least one, since none of it has ever entered. That is what we were asking for, and today we have a chance to do so. Therefore, without going into detail and going into the substance (because the Commission and the Assembly will decide on the substance), we ask the Assembly, if electoral law is to be discussed, to include now, in the same procedure, the measure that 350,000 citizens presented here seven years ago, to the Senate. I think we owe it to the citizens: you don't owe it to the 5 Star Movement, but you owe it to those people who signed this bill. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] I have nothing more to add but the emotion of finally being able to bring and announce to this House the bill 'Clean Parliament', which has started all this. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. The Senators of the M5S Group stand up and make the sign "V" with their fingers.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u120	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to announce that we voted against this request. There is a specific and technical subject, which has evoked, distinguishing between the electoral matter and the annexes and the related ones, Mr Donato Bruno: we are not in front of a desert of legislation, but we are faced with a regulation that exists. Therefore, it is not a matter on which urgency should be stated, as is the case with the electoral vote. As for the arguments generously supported by the previous speaker, I would stress that they meet with our firm dissent. I would also like to find a certain bad faith because, if you really wanted - we would not agree, but it would be a viable way - to include in the draft electoral law all those annexes and related illustrated by Senator Crimes, then you should have the dignity to propose the electoral law in the Constitution. Senator Crimes, you didn't do this to go through that channel that you like about direct democracy, to celebrate that fateful September 8th, to which our membership cannot go. This is where our very firm vote against comes from. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u123	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we believe that the draft law under consideration, on which we announce the vote in favour of the urgent procedure, proposes to dissolve some of the problems felt, not simply by one or the other political force, but by a large number of Italian citizens. These issues are today interpreted as very serious limitations in the relationship with parliamentary representation, which over the last few years have led to a real crisis of legitimacy in the perception of parliamentary institutions: the morality of parliamentary representation, the need to ensure a replacement of the same representation, avoiding that that of parliamentarians becoming a real profession (a profession for life), the possibility for voters to choose their representatives without finding them imposed again. It is clear that today for Italian voters the resolution of these problems cannot be postponed and unfortunately it has already been for some time. The disaffection of the electorate and the distrust of politics and politicians are now a real democratic emergency and are probably the consequence of the fact that for too many years these issues have not been addressed. We think that we can be more or less in agreement with the recipes proposed by this measure, and indeed we are saying from now on that we are not particularly in favour of certain aspects (we will discuss them on the subject); we can agree with some of them and we can have some elements of disagreement. That is precisely why Parliament exists, which is exactly where the nodes are to be dissolved and where the debates are to be dealt with. However, we think with the same force that we cannot deny the absolute urgency of this debate and therefore we are absolutely in favour, as the Left Ecology and Freedom, member of the Mixed Group, of the urgency procedure and then reserve ourselves to speak on the subject. In conclusion, I would like to make a point, but I would like to clarify in advance at least as far as we are concerned, in order to avoid easy and predictable controversy. The decision to discuss this draft law with an urgent procedure cannot, in our view, be linked, and must not be, to a single case, although it is particularly exposed to public attention. This, in the sense that the obligation to address these issues, in our opinion, does not depend on their relative relevance to a specific condemnation or a specific case of incandidability, but rather stems from the urgent need to rebuild a relationship of trust between citizens and institutions, between representatives and representatives (he would have said an ancient master) that has broken down in recent years and that Parliament, in our view, has a duty to restore. The citizens must know that parliamentarians are required more morality than their voters, not less, because, probably, the privileges that Italians consider intolerable today reside exactly in this. And citizens must be able to rely on a fluid relationship, based on a possible exchange between civil society and parliamentary representation, otherwise it is absolutely possible, even if unavoidable, to create mechanisms typical of castes. The voters will also have to be given back (we will also do it with the electoral law) the power to choose who will represent them and not to see their representatives drop from the top. Since we believe that the need to heal these suspension has not been determined by any judgment, it is not linked, in fact, to a single case, but it has existed for years and calls into question the whole policy precisely because it has corrupted and eroded the credibility of Parliament and democracy, we would like to see this interpretation of our reasoning. We have to deal with these issues with courage, we have to deal with them with transparency. Perhaps, indeed, we should have done so long ago, and that is why we are in favour of adopting the urgency procedure now, with an inexplicable delay on our shoulders. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Gambaro and Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u126	DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Mr President, if everything is urgent, nothing is urgent. We have voted on the urgency procedure for the electoral law, but we will not vote on the urgency procedure for this draft law. Beyond September 8, 2007, today the 5 Star Movement represents the vote of more than 8 million Italians and has a pro-rata effect in the legislative process. Why - if everything is urgent nothing is urgent - do we not recognize the chrysms of urgency or the opportunity to include this bill in our calendar with urgent criteria? Because, while the part relating to the electoral law is clearly absorbed by the urgency procedure for the electoral law, with regard to the part on incandidability, having, like other colleagues, participated in the previous legislature and then in the months or in the past semesters to the approval of a serious plan - certainly improved - for an effective law on incandidability we could propose some improvements, but the chronicles of these days show that perhaps there is not all this urgency of a new law on incandidability. We finally got one that works. I'd say that's enough. Today we establish (then we will decide with the Chamber of Deputies, who will examine it first, who after) the urgency of the electoral bill and, for the reasons that Senator Maran has set out, we agree. On the urgency of the law on incandidability, the chronicles we believe speak, in order to avoid that since everything becomes urgent then there are no urgencys, that this request today does not have and should not have in the timetable of our work the chrysms of urgency. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Fravezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u129	BRUNO (PdL). Mr President, as I have already said, the Group of the People of Freedom will vote against the request for an urgent statement on the reform of the rules on eligibility criteria and cases of revocation and revocation of the mandate. [[Applause from Senator Mandelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u132	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I would like to remind you that we are here to take a decision on the request for an urgent statement on matters and not on the substance of the proposals. I say this because it is not indifferent to our debate. A few moments ago, unanimously, the Senate of the Republic resolved that the urgency is that of the electoral law and I believe that this also absorbs any other consideration about the urgency that is claimed by the 5 Star Movement on another bill, of which it is not the merit of course to import, but the content. And the content is, for the most part, the issue of incompatibility, as can be seen from the title of the law, on which Parliament has already systematically legislated in recent years, but which probably needs further amendments. I don't discuss that. What I am discussing is the fact that what the 5 Star Movement calls us to is a resolution on another theme. It is true that in the proposal of the 5 Star Movement there is a part dedicated to the introduction of the preferred vote. For what it's worth (but I think it's institutional), the President of the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs says that that part can be very well absorbed in the examination we're going to make of the issue of electoral reform. But the theme of incandidability is something else. Let me also say a few words on the quality of the debate that we are about to make with the statement of urgency. I want to express here a thought that is absolutely personal. My opinion is that, if our will is to achieve the result, the proof of this will - let me tell you - will also be measured by the capacity that each of us will have to ignore from diseases to models. I say that I am a signatory to two draft laws, one presented in the last parliamentary term and retabled, and another which I have built alone in this parliamentary term. We have three objectives, as has been said in today's debate: the governability of the country, the choice of voters and a homogeneous and coherent majority between the House and the Senate. These are the ends. Around them - said Senator Bruno just now - we can choose between a quantity of models, but also with respect to an ability to find instruments that reach these three ends, which must be considered our three polar stars, assuming that the metaphor can work in this way so imprecise. Finally, I would like to address Senator Morra. Of course, this House is also used to make politics, let us say so, however, to make its voters feel outside, to somehow root out a piece of its public identity. I think, however, that we cannot even betray the truth in this. I therefore believe that I must withdraw from the accusation that you have made that the party system as a whole, so there is someone in this House who does not want State control over political parties. I myself, together with other colleagues in my Group, am a signatory to a draft law on the implementation of Article 49 of the Constitution. It was one of the eight points of our programme, we hold very much and, beyond the fact that it is a perfectible text, the end was exactly that. If the political parties represent, according to the letter of the Constitution, an important part of the construction of the Italian democratic system and if - up to now and, again, if the elimination of public funding to the parties were passed - with the deduction of 1 per thousand, the State would still contribute to the life of the parties and if, according to the opinion of many, the State must also limit itself to making available to the parties seats, places and instruments, all this means that, on the part of the State, there must be control over the budgets of the parties and the internal democratic life of the parties. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] And let me say (I say this as a sculpture, let's say): I do not mean whether in the other parties you do or do not do, or start a discussion of the individual parties, but certainly in my party the secretary is elected! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Certainly in my party the secretary is elected. On the contrary, our question is whether it should be elected by the members or by an even wider audience, with the mechanism of the primaries. This, to say that the nature of a party is recognized by this, and is not identical in the Italian political scenario among all parties. This was the case once; it is no longer so now, in a context in which, on the other hand, there are leaders who, around the figure of the leader, organize themselves and recognize themselves and on the internal democracy of which, frankly, each of us could also find something to object. I apologize to the House for having entertained colleagues for a few more minutes. As I said before, I announce the unfavourable vote of my Group on the urgent request for the bill on incandidability presented by colleagues of the Five Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the Groups and SCPI and Senator Panizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u133	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law No 452, made by Senator Crimi and other senators. It's not approved. [[Applause from Senator Pagliari. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u136	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I saw that there were quite a few people walking during the vote. I would ask, therefore, if it is possible to make a counter-test.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u137	Senator Santangelo, the result is so obvious! I'm sorry, but those people who walked weren't senators. I saw them all sitting in their seats. [[Applause from the PD groups, Mr PdL]] and SCPI and Senator Zin. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u140	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, it is 1.30 p.m. and we should now discuss draft law No 884, the last item on the agenda. This is not a ratification which, as some colleagues may think, can be examined in five minutes, as is often the case with ratifications. It is a ratification that needs an in-depth debate, because it concerns a rather sensitive issue. Among other things, there are two agendas, which need not only the general debate, but also an illustration and a debate on the subject. I would therefore ask you, at this point, to welcome the circumstances, to postpone the examination to September, because this would allow us to examine ratification more thoroughly. Moreover, we are waiting - at least this was promised during the debate - to have the second track, because the first one is not even annexed to the ratification. In September we would therefore have the opportunity to carry out a more thorough assessment of the substance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u141	Since there are no comments, also given the importance of the argument, referring to the decision of the Conference of Leaders the re-alendarisation, with further elements, of the bill n. 884, which bears out and executes the Agreement between the Republic of Albania, the Greek Republic and the Italian Republic on the "Trans Adriatic Pipeline" project, made in Athens on 13 February 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u144	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a request. I do not know whether the competence is of the Council for the Rules of Procedure or of the Assembly for the elections and parliamentary immunities, but I was very impressed that certain information was actually reported on the Senate's website. Unfortunately, I had to go through the election committee and I can assure you that, because of their delicacy, the speeches, questions and answers that must necessarily be provided there, they must have - as you mentioned by reading the Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament - a guarantee of secrecy. Therefore, it should not be allowed for any comments to be made on the website. I have to admit Senator Crime reported what was already posted on the site. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, it is inconceivable that on such a delicate subject there may be an advertisement for the work, precisely to protect the senators and, first of all, the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u145	As mentioned above, the matter will be examined by the competent bodies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u148	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, since a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of elections and parliamentary immunity has already been convened on 9 September, I would suggest that, as is the case in western films where firearms are left out of saloons, colleagues are obliged to deposit electronic instruments which even last night allowed some of them to send out information in real time on what was happening. I believe that a measure of this kind would ensure that someone, without being identified, gives real-time information about what happens in some kind of boardroom.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u149	Senator Giovanardi, as you know, it is up to the President of the Junta to determine the procedures for carrying out the work of the body that presides. So it is there that you will be able to request the adoption of any measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u150	As has already been said, I repeat that the Commissions will be able to meet from Monday 2 September, in relation to the respective timetables for the work, without prejudice to the need to convene for urgent and urgent situations during the month of August. The Assembly will meet again at 11 a.m. on Wednesday 4 September to examine motions on the risks of hydrogeological disruption, against the spread of gambling, on the combustion of cement waste. (Brusio). Since there is a general exchange of good wishes for a good holiday, let me also make them the President. [[Applause.]] I wish you every success, with the hope that more than holidays it will be rest to recover your energy, so as to proceed more effectively to our work on recovery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u153	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone a happy holiday. I would like to draw attention to a problem that we are living in Italy, a bit in all territories, with regard to digital terrestrial. Forewarning that I have submitted a question about the signal disturbances in Piedmont. After the start of the digital terrestrial, which took place with the switch off of 2010, there were several difficulties in receiving the signal, in particular RAI channels, which caused disservice to citizens, who, among other things, regularly pay the fee. Over the years, there have been numerous requests for intervention from local authorities, which have succeeded in the assurances of the competent bodies, first of all the RAI and the Ministry of Economic Development, but which have not led to a definitive solution of the problems of reception, which have become on the contrary continuous, exhausting and frustrating. The disturbance to the television signal also affected my territory, Biella and the whole province, but we know that this is a situation that lives other areas of Italy, so we think that there must be a much more comprehensive intervention. Among the different episodes, I note that happened last December 2012, when the assignment by the Ministry of Economic Development of channel 23 of the UHF band to a local issuer caused for several days of the disturbance to the signal RAI, between Lombardy and Piedmont. This serious situation affects the entire local population, in particular the population of over 70, which according to ISTAT data, in our area, exceeds 20%. For these people, listening to the national and regional news, the reception of which is really bad, all fragmented, is an important vehicle of information, which is likely to fail due to the difficulties encountered in receiving the signal. When there are weather events of particular intensity, everything really skips. Given this state of affairs, I have decided to submit a question to the Minister for Economic Development, supported by many colleagues from Piedmont, also from groups other than mine, precisely because this is a problem that is experiencing many areas of Italy. We therefore call for all possible solutions to be put in place to resolve definitively the problems of reception, which damage the seriousness and credibility of the public broadcasting service, creating inconveniences for the citizens not only of Piedmont - in particular, in this case, to the citizens of my area, that is, the citizens of Biella - who have paid the fee on a regular basis. I am confident that there will soon be an answer and an intervention from those who are competent, to solve the disgusting and age-old problem. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u156	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking in support of the candidates for the 814 Firefighters competition, which was banned in 2008. Honestly, it is difficult for me to speak after six years when citizens have tried to bring to the attention of this House a law in this regard, but the caste has teamed up. Today I am therefore spokesperson for the eligible, pending recruitment, of the contest for 814 posts in the qualification of firefighter, banned by Ministerial Decree No 5140 of 2008. We start from the assumption that it is more indispensable than ever to reaffirm the autonomy of the National Firefighters' Corps, optimizing its functionality, through an economic allocation able to strengthen its staff. With the provision assumed in the spending review of the turnover reduction for the recruitment of police personnel and the National Firefighter Corps, we move from the measure of 100 percent to 20 percent, in the three years 2012-2014, and to 50 percent, for the year 2015, affecting the functionality and operation of the Body itself. In the meeting recently held by the trade union organizations with the undersecretary Bocci has confirmed, with a decree-law, the strengthening of the staff through the assumption of 1,000 units, divided to 50% between the stabilization of volunteers and the 814 suitable. We do not find equality and equality between volunteers and citizens who have successfully passed a public competition. This creates a clear inequality between class A volunteers and class B volunteers. The shortcomings of the National Corps exceed 15,000 units, according to European standards, so we think it is possible to open a phase of recruitment of the eligible of the public competition thus reducing this great deficiency of much. Paradoxical appears the fact that the aspiring stabilizers - about 3,000 still in the ranking - still have to be subjected to a test of motor selection and to the medical visits that prove their suitability for service, and it is forgotten that about 5,500 units, belonging to the ranking of the public contest cited, have already been selected at the highest levels and of these about 2,000 have been considered suitable for the service because they are also subjected to medical examination. We therefore ask you, Mr President, to be a spokesman for the Government to move in this direction, in order to proceed in time with the recruitment of the staff of the Corps. There are guys who have passed three very hard tests and a selection of 120,000 competitors who are waiting to receive the place for which they competed and for which they were eligible. It is necessary that in this country the meritocracy should reign again, if ever there has been. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u159	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the presidency of the Senate's direct interest in the very serious situation in Sardinia: some 1,500 hectares of forest are on fire. We have news of wounded, even serious, and of arson started in the Iglesiente, in the Park of the Seven Brothers near Sinnai, in Perfugas and Sassari, in Ghilarza in Oristano, and also in the areas of the Irriguous Campidano. This is a situation that is evolving in a very worrying way. To provide only one figure, President, each hectare of wood burning has a value of about one million euros and the hectares currently affected by this situation are 1,500. We therefore call for the direct intervention of the National Civil Protection and the Ministry of the Environment and, above all, for the immediate application of the decree of the President of the Republic No 194 of 2001 so that immediate integration of the operational units with all available volunteers is possible, in order to combat the fires in place, which are certainly arson. We also call for an interest from the Ministry of the Interior to initiate appropriate investigations to identify those responsible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u162	FLORIS (PdL). Mr President, I should like to speak briefly. Thank you for giving me the floor on a problem that is very dear to all Sardinians and to which Mr Uras has already referred: I am referring to the problem of fires. We thought that this problem was limited, as it had happened in the past, to a few sporadic initiatives of some of the scumbags, but this year it has re-emerged in all its bullying and in all its importance. The problem of fires certainly has a significant economic reflection for us, giving a fatal blow to the beauty of our flora and the presence of fauna; an economic value, as Senator Uras recalled, of great importance. In addition to this, the fear of fires keeps many tourists away from Sardinia. Therefore, I too would like to see your authoritative speech, as Senator Uras has done, to all the institutional fora, beginning with the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and all the others who can intervene in this matter. Although the season is now quite advanced I am sure that these will not be the last fires that will occur. I am aware that this is an action to be taken on a preventive basis, but to act in the territory, with the support of the various police forces present in Sardinia and with all the intelligence present in them, at your request, President, would be very useful for our island.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u163	Unfortunately, that of the summer fires is a reality that we also know in Sicily.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u166	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to apologise to you for raising my voice against Senator Giovanardi in the course of the sitting, but I was shocked by the statements he made during Senator De Cristofaro's speech on the case of the Tunisian who died in the course of an arrest, hoping for the death of other human beings, such as the Tunisian drug dealer, regardless of whether he is a criminal, and for the umpteenth time becoming the advocate of a despicable subculture that gives the law enforcement authorities the right to carry out these gestures. Senator Giovanardi has thus damaged the same law enforcement, because we must punish those who are criminals within them. Senator Giovanardi advocates a hypocritical culture, because he calls himself a Christian but evidently does not turn the other cheek and does not remember that, as there are good policemen and bad police, there are also good politicians and bad politicians. This culture of hypocrisy, in fact, also strikes this House: drugs have arrived here too; there have been honourable people who used cocaine [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , such as, for example, Cosimo Mele who in 2007 was letting an overdose prostitute die. Besides, Senator Giovanardi has written one of the worst laws about it that we have. I therefore find it absolutely shameful that in this House a senator, who should be the guarantor of our wonderful Constitutional Charter, who, even before the rights of Italian citizens, guarantees the rights of men and women. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , rejoice that a human being is killed by criminals who will then be the proxy to ascertain, on the merits, who they are. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u167	The fact that he was killed will surely be verified by the ongoing investigation. But I understand the meaning of your speech, Senator Airola. [[Senator Giovanardi points out that he wants to intervene]] There are still other registered senators talking. Then I will certainly give the floor to Senator Giovanardi so that he can intervene personally. AIROLA (M5S). It's institutional, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u170	PAGE (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the National Day of the Sacrifice of Italian Work in the World. I believe that this day should also be remembered in this House. Today it is the fifty-seventh anniversary of the tragedy of Marcinelle where, on August 8, 1956, 262 people lost their lives, of which 136 Italian compatriots came from Abruzzo, Calabria, Lombardy, Friuli, Emilia-Romagna, Campania, Marche, Molise, Puglia, my Sicily, Tuscany, Trentino and Veneto. We want to remember the sacrifice of many Italian workers who abroad make our country great. A reminder and a tribute to those who, seeking a better life, suffered exploitation, discrimination and racism. All this must be a warning so that the person's life comes before any other interest. And in remembering our victims we want to say thank you for the great example they have left us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u173	MALAN (PdL). Mr President, you wished the House and colleagues well. I thank you personally and wish you, as well as my fellow Members, for a good holiday, remembering that, contrary to what the newspapers write today, this Parliament works much more than others. I should like to quote a few figures, even to the comfort of my fellow Members, so that they may go on a light holiday, in the hope that she herself has made, that this period will serve to work with the necessary effort to recover. The French Senate held its last session on 25 July and will resume its work on 10 September. The French National Assembly held its last session on 25 July and will resume its work in September, on a date which has yet to be established. The French Members and Senators have an economic treatment of 50% higher than ours. Our bitter German colleagues held their last sitting on 28 June and are not yet called for the autumn because there are elections. But if they do not know yet whether they will be elected or re-elected, they already know that next year the holidays will be from 4 July to 8 September: sixty-six days, compared to the 25 that we are going to spend. They also have economic treatment that is more than twice as much as ours, as the Members of the European Parliament, who will have holidays of the same duration: from 4 July to 9 September. The House of Commons of the United Kingdom held its last sitting on 17 July and their work will resume on 30 September. They too enjoy greater economic treatment than ours. This is also to the information of the newspapers, which today headline with a sort of outrage for our holidays. I understand the directors of these newspapers who have to dictate these titles tirelessly from the vacation locations in which they are located, and we hope that they too will be useful to them these days. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u175	Senator Giovanardi, I hope you intervene on a personal basis. The various positions have already been represented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u177	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I am sorry, but absolutely nothing has been represented. I have been accused in this House with the miserable claim that I have rejoiced at the death of a human being and this statement will of course end up on the net. What the colleague said is an infamy: where did I rejoice? I just said that you can't prosecute and convict three carabinieri before anyone even found out if they committed some kind of crime. I pointed out that when Preiti was stopped in front of Palazzo Chigi, the carabinieri did not shoot him, but they blocked him on the ground, with his head down, and handcuffed him holding him. This is a way to stop a person. According to what has been said in some of the speeches I have heard in this House, if that gentleman had had a heart attack, he would have been included in this case in the torture offence, so that the carabinieri would have been sentenced to life imprisonment. Yesterday, with my colleague Mr Gasparri, I simply said that Parliament, the Government or the Heads of Police and Carabinieri must tell the law enforcement authorities how they should intervene to stop people caught in flagrant acts of crime who are resisting, since they cannot use weapons. The current methodology - as we all know - is the one used by the Carabinieri in front of Palazzo Chigi. If, however, a heart attack or death from asphyxiation occurs in such a case, must the Carabinieri be sentenced to life imprisonment and be put in prison? The magistrates will judge him during the trial. I have just said, and I stress this, that I refuse to consider the three Carabinieri torturers right now, because they have not done their duty at all. I don't rejoice at a person's death. I'm really sorry, but I'm on the side of the Carabinieri and all the law enforcement. Of course, I know that in COCERs and police unions the tension and concern are really skyrocketing, because if every time you put your life at risk to stop a person who commits crimes you risk a preventive lynching, it is clear that someone will say: Then you go and stop the person who resists the arrest. That is all, therefore, I have not rejoiced at anything, my dear colleague, but I do not feel able to pre-launch policemen and police when they intervene to defend all citizens. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u178	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-93.ana.u179	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Wednesday 4 September, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.49 p.m.
