ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.06 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.15 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1121. The Minister of Economy and Finance presented the Note of changes to the State budget for the financial year 2014 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2014-2016. This note was referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. Pending the completion of its work by the Budget Commission, I suspend the sitting until 9.40 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.16 a.m. and resumed at 9.53 p.m.) Let's resume our work. Before proceeding to the final vote of the budget estimate of the State it is necessary to pass, in accordance with Article 129, paragraph 2 of the Regulation, to the examination and the deliberation on the Note of Variations, with which the Government has introduced in the text of the bill of budget and in the annexed tables modifications consequent to the determinations adopted by the Senate in the examination of the law of stability. I call Senator Azzollini to report on the conclusions adopted by the 5th Permanent Commission on the Note of Variations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies senators and senators, this Note of changes to the State's budget for the financial year 2014 and for the three-year period 2014-2016 has been prepared for the purpose of transposing the effects of the 2014 Draft Stability Act approved by the Senate of the Republic. In relation to the above, this Note includes amendments: (a) to general summary frameworks for the three-year period 2014-2016 in terms of competence and cash; (b) the estimates of revenue (Table 1) and all estimates of expenditure by the Ministries (Tables 2 to 14). The amendments to the relevant technical annexes by chapters are also produced accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Note of Variations. With the approval of the Note of Variations, the text on which the Senate has pronounced itself in the previous stages of the procedure, with reference both to the articles of the draft budget law and to the annexed tables, will be modified accordingly. The final vote on the draft law will then be taken by electronic means. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the Note of variations. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 275 Senators voting 274 Majority 138 Favorables 205 Contrari 69]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft budget law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u7	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill No 1121 in the amended text, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorized to make any changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 278 Senators voting 277 Majority 139 Favorables 162 Contrars 115]] The Senate approves. I now have a very brief suspension of the House's work and then move on to the next item on the agenda. (The sitting was suspended at 9.59 and resumed at 10.04 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on document III, No 1. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by majority, to propose to the Senate to deliberate the non-validation of the election of Senator Silvio Berlusconi, pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 235 of 31 December 2012. The report has been printed and distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u11	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on a point of order, with reference to Rule 113 (3). My point of order is the same as that made by Senator Zanda at the sitting of 29 January 2009 on the agenda for the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the contested election of Senator Di Girolamo. This was an identical case to the one under discussion both from a structural and legal point of view. I can therefore use Senator Zanda's words: 'Mr President, I would like to make a reference to paragraph 3 of Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides, as we know, for the secret ballot for votes on persons. There is no doubt - I am always quoting Senator Zanda - that on the agenda that has been submitted to us, both in the device, where he makes explicit reference to activities that affect the person of the Senator................................................................................................... And again: If the literal text of this agenda is not sufficient, the main argument that cuts the bull's head has given it in his speech by the first signatory, explaining that he calls for a guaranteed vote with this objective. It seems to me that this subject has a very clear personalized connotation about Senator Di Girolamo and I believe our Rules prescribe, not as mere faculty, the secret vote. Here, Mr President, we would like us, as then, to be answered as did President Schifani, who said to Senator Zanda: 'Senator Zanda, there were no doubts on the part of the Presidency about the eligibility of the secret vote'. Mr President, we would also like to see no doubts as to the eligibility of the secret vote, not least because, in all respects, it is a case of decadence that has occurred absolutely similar to the one we are proposing today. I leave out all the arguments on the basis of which we believe that the decadence under discussion today is not applicable, but I just want to say that it is not possible that there are two equal situations dealt with differently. I am aware of what has been discussed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I know that perfectly well, and I also know that there is a disturbing and questionable opinion on which we must vote by clear ballot on the decadence that has taken place. But I would point out that the Council has only delivered an opinion, under Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure, on questions of interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. If that were not the case, Mr President, if it had not been merely an opinion which was offered to you by the Junta, we would have had to have an amendment to the Rules of Procedure which would have required a passage for your approval in this House. So, Mr President, it is up to you, in accordance with Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, to observe it, as I have just said. You should - you should, I mean, you couldn't - make that observation today based on what happened in the previous year. In fact, see President, a possible option on your part, which can precisely decide differently from what the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has done, for a clear vote, would prove in a plastic way - I say, in a plastic way - that we want to deal with this issue in the same way as a political issue. This is not possible because it is contrary to the principle of third-party ownership. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u14	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I treat this issue very calmly, and I would like to ask my colleagues a little bit of attention if they will be kind enough to lend it to me. The matter is quite clear. Following a specific convocation, the Board for the Rules of Procedure decided that the vote on the incandidability should take place by clear ballot and not by secret ballot. I come to the problems that I would like to put to the House. In the meantime, if the Council for the Rules of Procedure has in reality interpreted Rule 135-b, that is, it has made a real amendment of the Rules of Procedure. The question is not a minor one, because if it were to be an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, there was no question. But if the Rules of Procedure were to be amended in accordance with Rule 167 of the Rules of Procedure, this amendment should pass through the Chamber and could only be launched by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate. We believe, as we have already pointed out in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, that this is a real change and not an interpretation. Why do we say that? Because, as everyone knows, voting under Rule 135-b has always been done by secret ballot, and incredibly, in this case, without the technical incident required by the Rules of Procedure taking place, the Junta was deemed to have been invested. The previous practice, to which the Senate has always been united in the past, clearly denounces how this interpretation, which is obviously not adjective, because I do not intend to overheat the climate, is a real change and, as such, according to the Rules of the Senate, needs a passage in the Chamber and a qualified majority vote. If, on the other hand, it should be assumed that we are in the presence of an interpretation, then we should reflect on another circumstance, which is the following: is an interpretation allowed of a rule that is in clear violation of our Constitution and, in particular, that it is in clear violation of that part of our Constitution that our Constitutional Court declares unchangeable? Surely, in fact, unchangeable and fundamental principle of our Constitution is Article 3, which provides for equal treatment of citizens in similar situations. What is the problem that I intend to put to the House? In the opinion of the Council for the Rules of Procedure it is expressly stated that the vote must be clear and not secret because it does not concern people, but concerns the correct composition of the Senate. I have to say that in this respect there is a very strong force, because Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure provides for the secret ballot of votes in any case concerning persons. That is why our Rules of Procedure state that it does not matter whether the vote is directly or indirectly involving the person, but that whenever a person is involved, the vote must be by secret ballot. In any case, the assumption of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is that the vote is for the correct composition of the body. I want to follow this reasoning by asking all of you to keep Article 3 of the Constitution in mind. However, according to the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the votes on the incandidability which have taken place should be taken by way of a clear ballot; instead, the votes on eligibility, incompatibility and so on should be held by secret ballot. So if, by hypothesis, immediately after the vote on the incandidability that took place, we had to discuss, for example, another contested election but not due to incandidability, the paradox would occur, being both votes related to the correct composition of the organ, that due to the incandidability that would have occurred there would be the obvious vote, while for a contested election for different reasons the vote would be secret, reliving Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure, being that vote however involving the person. What is regrettable, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that in the Rules of Procedure we raised this problem and said that it was not possible to separate within Rule 135b the interpretations which would lead to a different discipline with regard to certain similar situations in an unreasonable manner. The answer that was given to us in that Junta was that, with reference to ineligibility, incompatibility, or any other type of contested election, one had to think about it. Basically, a deepening was needed; but a deepening of what? The ineligibility, the incompatibility, the contested election do not concern the correct composition of the Senate organ? And the correct composition of the Senate organ doesn't concern the so-called incandidability that has occurred? So why, beyond the singularity of this surgical interpretation or amendment of the Rules of Procedure, do we have to move forward with an interpretation that is clearly in violation of Article 3 of the Constitution? If it were decided in that Junta that all votes relating to Rule 135-b would take place by secret vote or by a clear vote, we would only discuss here whether it was at the time of interpretation or amendment of the Rules of Procedure; but in this case, the problem, which also exists, seems subvalent to me compared to the other problem that I tried to expose, namely that of avoiding, beyond everything (repeat, I do not want to overheat the climate) that with this vote there should be a blatant violation of the Constitution. There is no political concern, there is no moral or moralism whatsoever, there is no interest in shop that can allow the Senate of the Republic to violate our Constitution in such a clear way. I therefore formally request, Mr President, that Rule 113 and Rule 102 be re-invested in this matter. Will the Committee on the Rules of Procedure decide that the vote must be taken by a clear ballot? For the other cases, too? We will come back, we will discuss whether it is interpretation or modification, but we really cannot move forward. If we allow this further deviation from this scheme, we must all reflect on one point: this decision, which is so heavy politically and democratically, must not be accompanied by further criticism. The future serenity of this country is at stake. We cannot create with this vote, in the terms I have described, a further presupposition of conflict within this country. Perhaps we do not need national pacification, but we all need, for the good of this country, to calm today and to calm today for tomorrow, for the day after tomorrow and for the day after tomorrow still the general climate in which we are immersed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u17	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are no constraints on these matters, and I remember that we always act without a mandate. I believe that we cannot give up our right to vote freely and unconditionally by external pressure, which is enshrined in our Rules of Procedure, and that there can be no interpretation or force in this direction. I would also add that it applies, in my view, to a principle of equal treatment which must be reserved for all Members of this House, both for the present and for the future, as has been the case in the past, and our Rules of Procedure provide for the secret vote. This is a liberal principle, which has been affirmed not in recent years but has centuries of application in the liberal societies and institutions of our world. In this respect, I believe that there is no derogation and I support the views of my fellow Members who have said so here. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u20	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, just in view of the fact that Senator Palma called for a more serene debate on a certainly important day, I would like to avoid that the work that all colleagues know has been done in an intense and visible way in the junta for the Rules of Procedure should not be lost, it is not a wasted opportunity to bring us back to this House to repeat arguments that have already been dealt with and in some way resolved. I say this very briefly in favour of all colleagues who are not members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure: we have already decided, we have already made an assessment, at the request of the President of the Senate, on all the issues referred to by Senator Palma. What has been assessed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure? First of all, that the situation we are experiencing and the particular situation we are called upon to decide on today is absolutely original: this is the first time that this House and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure have been able to assess a completely new situation. This situation is linked not to the personal status of an individual, but to the fact of the composition of this organ, and it is only in this horizon that we are called to decide today. I am taking one step further than I have heard Senator Buemi say a moment ago: it is not even true that the direction for which this House decided and voted by secret ballot when it came to people is unique; indeed, as we agreed with our colleagues in the New Right Centre and forza Italia in Giunta per il Regolamento, gradually the practice of the Senate and the House, with precise deliberations of their respective bodies, has gradually restricted some of the spaces originally designed for the secret vote. I make a reference that is valid and useful for the decision that we are about to make today compared to what Senator Palma said. In particular, in 1993 and therefore already twenty years ago, the Junta for the Rules of Procedure of the Senate decided in an indisputable and peremptory way that for the deliberations made pursuant to Article 68, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Constitution (i.e. the permissions to proceed, the authorization to arrest, the searches and other restrictive measures of personal freedom, therefore very strong elements that affect the restriction of the freedoms of personal status) the vote was carried out automatically by obvious scrutiny. From that moment on, the Senate was called 34 times to decide on situations that were recalled by these cases, and as many as 25 out of 34 cases were decided by obvious scrutiny. In the light of this and an analogy with what was decided in a completely irrefutable way by the Chamber of Deputies, we have therefore assessed by a majority vote, in the junta for the Rules of Procedure, that this case must also be dealt with by a decision taken by a clear ballot. I call on Senator Palma and his fellow Members not to call for discussions that have already begun. Today we must have a rich debate, and I know that there will legitimately be other moments of discussion, other times of prejudice, but I would ask Members and the whole House to consider this matter closed, entrusted to the decision of the Council and to the President of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u23	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, the remarks made by Senator Russo are, of course, fully respectable, but very disappointing, especially for those of your colleagues - like myself and others - who are not members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Senator Russo's concern that the work he has done in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on this matter should not be wasted is entirely contrary to those liberal principles which Mr Buemi referred to (which I thank for the elegance with which he referred to them). Senator Russo, we would have preferred - not so much because of the references to Article 3 of the Constitution, which are always good, but because of the insurmountable walls of that "however" that is present in our Rules of Procedure - that the Council for the Rules of Procedure should not deal with this matter. About the previous one you mentioned, I was part of that 1993 Rules of Procedure Junta and I was part of that Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, of which a great gentleman was President such as President Pellegrino, no less than my colleague Stefano: it was not a day of glory for the Parliament of the Republic, subjected to a squadrista and fascist attack by deckers supported by the free vote of the House of Deputies on Mr Craxi. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u26	SCHIFANI (NCD). Mr President, I shall be brief, given that Senator Comrade has already spoken, but I cannot fail to make a brief comment. In making my own the words of Senator Alberti Casellati and the very articulate and valuable explanations of Senator Nitto Palma on the matter, I am obliged to express in this House what I have already said several times about the procedure which gave rise to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure through an abnormal path, such as that of interpretation. Almost by innovating - I would define - our rules, it has given rise to a constitutive, innovative interpretation of the article. On Article 113, paragraph 3, Senator Alberti Casellati said well when she called for the sitting on the case of Senator Di Girolamo: on that occasion, I presided over and, at the request of Senator Zanda that the vote be secret, I said that, because it is a vote on the person - because today we are talking about a person, a Member of Parliament, who is called to be voted by Parliament in accordance with a law, on whose legitimacy from the constitutional point of view we could discuss - the vote was secret. It has also been mentioned several times this morning. Well, I can only repeat that I do not agree with and do not agree with the path that has led to this innovation: this is a path that concerns us because the Rules of Procedure of Parliament is an internal Charter, almost a Constitutional Charter, which regulates the rules of the institutions and which even presupposes that you modify - as you, Mr President, will know - an absolute majority in the House of Members of Parliament. This is the sense of a Charter which requires qualified consensus in order to be innovative, because this changes a rule of life in this House. On the basis of this concept, in my view, we have now come to a clear vote in accordance with an unwritten rule, which was deliberated in the Council by a majority and not unanimously. There have been cases - my fellow Members will remember this - where in certain cases of doubt the unanimity of the Council or of the House has overcome possible moments of tension or difficulty of analysis: unanimity has sometimes covered certain procedural anomalies, but there was unanimity, which in this case was not in the Junta. Therefore, we are clearly voting when - I would like to remind you, today that we are referring to European values and membership of Europe - at the European Parliament level a small number of Members (20 or 25 members of the European Parliament) can ask that any resolution on any subject be voted on in secret. So, as Europe moves in a sense, we move completely in a distonic way. This is not acceptable, it is not good, I do not like it, and that is why I want it to remain in the proceedings - on behalf of myself and of the Group to which I belong - which, since the opinion of the Council is not binding, I believe that it, in its autonomy and authority, can review the application of this decision of the Junta and allow the secret vote. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u29	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I do not want to go back to the arguments put forward by my colleague Mr Russo, who involved the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in the debate, but I do not want it to appear, both in this House and outside, that we escape from the point of view made by my colleague Senator Alberti Casellati, who was sent out by the agencies by yesterday and so we know very well. It seems to me right here to say that we are in the presence of two cases which have nothing in common. I remind everyone - I was not in the Senate, at the time I was a Member - that on 29 January 2009 a completely different case was discussed: it was the dispute over the election of Senator Di Girolamo. This was the question of contesting an election. At this moment, however, we are not faced with an assimilable case: we are faced with the debate on incandidability, therefore with a dispute that does not concern the person, the individual senator, but the Chamber, the Senate and the fact that this body must be composed in a legitimate way. I say this also by recalling an article of textual law. What is the meaning of paragraph 2 of Article 3 of the so-called Severino law that: If the determination of the cause of incandidability intervenes in the validation phase of the elect, does the Chamber concerned, even in the more than the conclusion of this phase, immediately decide on the non-validation phase? It makes sense because here there is no question of the destiny of a person, but the composition of the Senate is in question, and this marks the difference that allows us to solve in a different way the two cases, that of Senator Di Girolamo and that of Senator Berlusconi. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Alberti Casellati's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u32	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind all my colleagues briefly that the work done in Junta has not been easy and that the two very well-made reports, one by Mr Bernini and the other by Mr Russo, have led to the expression of this opinion, which has been well thought out through a specific analysis of very, very, very extensive documentation. The opinion approved by the Junta in the final part states clearly that "These deliberations are an expression of a prerogative of the Parliamentary Body, to protect the legitimacy of its composition. Therefore, the same deliberations do not represent in their own sense votes concerning persons, pursuant to and for the effects referred to in Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. This makes the point quite clear. Yes, it is true that we are going to Europe, but before we go to Europe it is good to deal with the regulations currently in force, even if they refer to the other branch of Parliament. In fact, it is essential to recall the provision in paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Rules of the Junta of the Chamber Elections, according to which: the votes in the matter of verification of powers, ineligibility, incompatibility and forfeiture do not constitute votes concerning persons within the meaning of Article 49, paragraph 1, of the Rules of the Chamber. So, I would like to calm everyone down: I understand that this is not a simple vote for many of you, but this is an absolutely thoughtful job and done in maximum serenity. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u33	I would remind you that in its opinion of 30 October 2013, the Council for the Rules of Procedure decided that: In cases of non-validation due to incandidability in the course of the parliamentary term of office, the deliberations on possible agendas which differ from the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, pursuant to Rule 135-b (2) of the Rules of Procedure, are subject to the general rules on voting methods and, therefore, must be voted in a clear manner. These deliberations are the expression of a prerogative of the parliamentary body, to protect the legitimacy of its composition. Therefore, the same deliberations do not represent in their own sense votes concerning persons, pursuant to and for the effects referred to in Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of the literal content and logical-systematic meaning of this opinion, which does not include any exception to the general rule of clear voting, all agendas that will be submitted in discrepancies do not apply either paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, the opinion of the Council for the Rules of Procedure of 6 May 1993 expressly provided for mandatory hypotheses of derogation from the general rule of clear voting, for permissions to proceed with respect to cases of arrest, personal search and home or other deprivation or limitation of personal freedom, keeping the deliberations themselves - and only those - to the reports referred to in Articles 13 et seq. of the Constitution. Therefore, with regard to the deliberations on agendas in discrepancies in cases of non-validity due to incandidability during the parliamentary term, no request for secret voting pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure may be accepted. With regard to the further issue raised by Senator Palma, who was also raised during the proceedings of the Board for the Rules of Procedure, whether or not to extend the discipline of the clear vote to all the cases referred to in Rule 135 of the Rules of Procedure, the question has already been dealt with and resolved at the session of the Board for the Rules of Procedure of 30 October last and, as Senator Lo Moro said, it is the first application of the Severino law. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti]] Compared to that decision of the Council, the Presidency is bound and no new elements are found today to reopen the issue at such a close distance from that meeting. The point of order is therefore not acceptable. I would therefore ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, whether he intends to intervene in order to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u34	Mr President, distinguished senators, all of you are familiar with the facts described analytically in the report by the Junta, to which I refer in full. Here, I simply recall that the judgment n. 35729 of 1 August 2013 of the Court of Cassation, working section, which became definitive regarding the prison sentence, called the Junta, engaged in the examination for the validation of the elections in the Molise region, and therefore also of Senator Silvio Berlusconi, to the application of the legislative decree of 31 December 2012, n. 235, the so-called Severino law, which provides for the forfeiture, due to incandidability, due to the final sentence of four years of imprisonment for crime not manslaughter punished with no less than four years, such as the title of crime charged to Senator Berlusconi. The Junta, which I have the honour to preside over, has scrupulously followed the detailed process, regulated for the most part by the Rules for the verification of powers, managing - I believe - to keep together the correct application of the rules with the equally legitimate and sacred safeguard of individual prerogatives, offering, along the whole path of the procedure, begun - I remember before all to myself - on 7 August and concluded on 15 October, a wide and shared attribution of spaces dedicated to both the reasons of Senator Berlusconi and those of the individual components. I leave, therefore, the chronological description of the facts to the exposition contained in the final report, which was approved by the Junta (and which is in the proceedings) and instead try to pause only briefly on the topics, the reflection, the legal discussion. I follow the same argumentative scheme offered by Senator Berlusconi in his defensive memory, and therefore the five arguments contrary to the alleged declaration of forfeiture: first, the lack of thirdness of the Junta; the nature of the forfeiture as the criminal effect of the sentence, but also as an ancillary sanction and part of the criminal penalty that has become even more grievous (from which the necessary irretroactivity); the constitutional illegitimacy of Articles 1, 2, 3, 13, 15 and 16 of Legislative Decree No 235 of 2012; the violation of Article 49 of the ECHR and consequent importance of the Community preliminary ruling to be raised to the Court of Luxembourg; finally, the request for suspension pending the decision of the European Court of Human Rights on the appeal lodged for violation of Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights. A first question, therefore, concerned the third party of the Junta, an argument with which Senator Berlusconi also urged the resignation of some members suspected of having failed to the constitutional canons, or, in the alternative, the suspension of the work in order to wait for a regulatory change that would remedy the supposed systemic vulnus, linked to the impossibility to ask for the abstention or the objection of the members of the Junta. These arguments reflect the view, repeatedly expressed in the debate, also in the public debate, that the phase governed by the 1992 Rules of Procedure is a judicial phase, that the members are equal to judges, and that therefore the canons of fair trial must be applied, and for them the principle of impartiality. With reference to the latter and particular censorship, the mere reading of the regulatory data allowed to draw antithetical elements to what the defence denounced: the phase does not look like jurisdiction, rather because it is a phase of verification of the powers. The whole body of legislation points out that the 1992 procedural regulation was designed for heterogeneous situations and to overcome the multi-source complex, with the clear aim of better guaranteeing the stakeholders involved in the proceedings and, together, the public interest in the sound composition of the Senate, as well as ensuring the speed of procedures aimed at ascertaining the real results of the proceedings. These are the words of the rapporteur in this House, Senator Leopoldo Elia, who wisely contributed - I believe - to the development of the current discipline. It has achieved a regulatory system far from the rigid forms and of a different nature, I add of the criminal process; or of another procedural figure for which, not by chance, in 1992, at the date of approval of the Rules of the Senate currently in force, various expressions were coined, such as that of "jurisdictionality of the functions", of "para-judicial procedure", of "constitutional control of legitimacy," of "political justice," of "administrative activity", of "justice of fairness", until the hypotized nature of a kind of "para-administrative justice" with judicial virtuality". Never, I say never, did anyone believe to go so far as to claim that the parliamentary miracle of 1992 had intended to build or describe a trial or, as we use to repeat, a judicial phase. The guarantee procedure governed by the Rules of Procedure provides, in the end, only very few traits common to those proper to the jurisdiction, implementing in the rest a verification simply open to the logical and cognitive contribution of the defenses of the aspirants to the contested senatorial seat. There are no appearances of res iudicata that can bring the verification closer to the appearance of a process. That entrusted to the Junta is therefore simply a guaranteed phase of verification of the application of the presuppositions of a normative forecast linked to a definitive statuition of condemnation and, therefore, of a procedure - not of a trial - observing rules and precepts also to guarantee the parties, but essentially guided by the dominant idea of the defence of the parliamentary institution. It is not the electoral right of the individual senator to inspire the procedures of verification of the powers, if anything the interest of the parliamentary assembly to guarantee the presence within it of components in line with the legalistic presuppositions of parliamentary participation, among which precisely the absence of definitive convictions. It is not, strictly, even a particular form of self-dedication, on which there has been a recent statement by the Court of Strasbourg in the case of Savino and others - the judgment is of April 2009 - from which the idea is derived that the matter in question is not a matter of jurisdiction and for the type of decision attributed to the Junta and for the type of matter reserved to it. The precedent of the European Court of Human Rights, in Grosaru c. Romania of 2010, with reference precisely to the Italian system of verification of the powers of the same Parliament, had, moreover, already considered completely acceptable that the validation or invalidation of the elections in Parliament can be decided by a parliamentary body - as such not judge - and in the forms not of a procedural practice. The defensive memory, but also the debate of these long weeks, have then highlighted further issues, to which Senator Berlusconi has devoted points b), c) and d) of the defensive writing and, before him, the report of Senator Augello, whom I also thank here, as well as the well-known oral opinions attached. Having to summarize - the detail is always entrusted to the documents present in acts - the most controversial point concerns the applicability of Article 3 of Legislative Decree No. 235 of 2012, of which it is suspected the unconstitutionality for violation of the principles of irretroactivity, to be the aforementioned sanctioning provision applicable only to the facts after their commission. The fumus of the not manifested unfoundedness would be demonstrated in the indication of points of view, all authoritative but commissioned by Senator Berlusconi in the exercise of his defensive prerogatives. According to the defence, the Junta should have taken note of this fact and sent the documents to the Constitutional Court, but also assess the relevance of the internal question, both in terms of the possible injury of inviolable rights, which was the subject of an appeal to the Court of Strasbourg, and in terms of the possible breach of Community law, for whose interpretation the request for a preliminary opinion to the Court of Luxembourg was sought not by chance. The first question, namely whether the rule of Law No 235 is unconstitutional or not, meets a first preliminary barrier in the specific and recent position taken by our own Junta at its meeting on 2 July 2013, where an opinion was perfected in the sense of excluding the possibility of referring a law to the Constitutional Court. Nor have there been arguments for a change of address so little distance from the previous one a few months ago. The reflection covered topics of a substantial nature as well. The particular interpretation given by the fumus and the doubt, the idea of linking the constitutional importance to the intensity of the hermeneutic debate, of which the mass media gave ample testimony, did not convince the Junta, which instead considered that the presence of divergent points, all authoritative or probably disinterested, does not equal proof and evidence of a not manifest unfoundedness, which instead remains linked to the evaluation of the court, which must proceed independently - as it did - to such preliminary verification, in line with the constant jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. In other words, not only may a silent rule deserve to be a trade union, but it is not necessarily a noisy rule of law. In any event, the issuing body shall retain its decision-making autonomy on the assessment of merits. The mortgage of doubt not only did not affect the Junta, but suggested an accurate reflection on the nature of the norm, around which there were two great divergent views. A first, on the unconstitutionality of the norm, has developed this type of reflection: the forfeiture is a criminal sanction; the criminal nature excludes the formal label and rather relates to the nature, form and duration of the measure; the content of the decay is implicitly recognized also in ECHR judgments; As a criminal penalty the revocation cannot be retroactive, that is, it cannot apply to facts committed before the entry into force of the law; if it were administrative sanction it would not change the state of things, since the principle of irretroactivity also governs administrative sanctions; the law is unclear and finally, it is precisely this crypticity that advises the option of irretroactivity, whose derogation should have been otherwise manifested. The second point of view, to speculate on the first, and which saw the majority of the Junta converge, on the constitutionality of the norm and therefore on the perfect applicability to the case of Senator Berlusconi, has developed this different type of reflection: decadence is not a sanction but an effect, a subjective condition linked to a sentence; if it is true that any sanction results in the reduction of the capacity of law and of the ability to act, it is not always true however the opposite: there are reductions that are not sanctions, consequence also of the unlawful fact, but in a reflected form and not directly consequent to the fact, rather to the effects of the main fact; the statues of condemnation are established by a judge (penal) and certainly neither the Junta nor the Senate can qualify as such; the predictions of status may have, and generally have, retroactive effect; it would not be, rightly, even of retroactivity: the norm attaches the effect to the existence of a condemnation beyond which poses a profile of incompatibility with the parliamentary office; the institute of the decadence has already been monitored by the supranational jurisprudence and has been free from the law of legislative validity. Between the two exegetical alternatives - and then in the choice of the second option - the Junta has highlighted some elements, among which first of all the nature of the organ composed entirely and genetically political, called to carry out a guarantee function of verification of the powers. A check - said in another way - on the conditions of application of the law protected from abnormal or erroneous reinterpretations, and never to the point of discussing the contents of a definitive pronunciation, nor to the point of controlling the application of a law passed free from any even fronted censorship of constitutionality. Nevertheless, the Junta did not fail to observe that Law No. 190 of 2012 was structured on a series of forecasts that relate the causes of incandidability by linking them to the finding of the fact and never to the tempus of the commission of the fact. This is equivalent to saying that it is always the condemnation to generate, within the law, that watershed between before and after that it marks the arrival of an ethical, moral incompatibility, a subsequent finding of inopportunity because of the new data of the criminal condemnation. In a single case, Law No 190 of 2012 - and it is not accidental - binds incompatibility to the fact of crime, i.e. in Article 1, paragraph 12, letter a), as a natural rule of temporal operation. Apart from the just cited - and completely understandable - reference to the fact, and to the relative time of commission, any other decadent reference of the law delegation and of the law implementation is linked to the time of the sentence, never to the fact for which it is condemned: so (to mention only the normative references) for paragraph 46, for paragraph 49, for paragraph 50, for paragraph 58 and, finally, for paragraphs 63 and 66 of Article 1. The systematic order seems, that is, to leave to infer the following: condemnation (or the rooting of a conflict of interests) changes the state of public relations, places a new reason for opportunity, decadence, infects relations and the institutional image, transforms the potential discomfort for the trial into a present discomfort for the condemnation, almost to say that after the condemnation (specific: condemnation, not the fact) things are no longer as before, because of a status of dignity as a suspensive or decisive condition for the parliamentary office. The decadent philosophy is not restricted, as is well known, to the only parliamentary mandate, national or European: the same and less restrictive decadent conditions (e.g. lower penalty limit, ope-law operation, relevance of prevention procedure) and even suspensive (well before the final judgment) operate for regional elective offices and offices in local authorities, confirming a need to safeguard against judicial contamination, which the internal system has felt as a precondition for a proper democratic organization of elective functions. It is worth noting that each of these predictions has passed free from the numerous filters and jurisprudential checks which have confirmed the goodness of the general decadent paradigm. Finally, it seems evident that the decadent institution, as it has been outlined, does not intend in any way to replicate the resolving effect typical of the ancillary penalty of ban from public offices: not only such a result would have been easier with a simple modification of the criminal-codes forecasts, but the coexistence of the two institutions remains evident from the letter and the spirit of the system of law n. 190 of 2012 and of legislative decree n. 235 of the same year, very clear in wanting to outline a distant and different legal figure from the traditional criminal effects of the condemnation. Looking around can never be a mistake, if anything the exercise of an overall view of the legal phenomena experienced in the complexity of the application reality. In the complexity of the arguments that emerged, the Junta recorded the authoritative position of the Council of State, for example, with the pronunciation of Section V, rapporteur Miniscalco, who, in a well-known pronunciation, had the opportunity to clarify how the legal order retains the power to introduce causes of inopportunity for which a candidacy may be denied. It would not be sanctions, either major or ancillary, or administrative, or the sensual side of sanctions. No divergence has emerged even with the ECHR case law, which requires us to look at the substance of things, beyond formal or sometimes formalistically elusive labels, but simply the idea that it is not a punitive effect of condemnation, but an effect of punitive condemnation. The authoritative pronunciation basically takes up an issue already dealt with in the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, in particular with judgment No 132 of 2001, where already a few years ago the purposes of constitutional importance were emphasized, connected with constitutional values of primary importance, of cases of incandidability; and it was explicitly excluded that the non-candidateness for criminal conviction following a final judgment could be understood as an ancillary penalty, or rise to the manifestation of the principle of re-educability of the penalty: the legislative discretion well can move to fix the requirements under which citizens can access the elective positions under equal conditions. The subject was also addressed in the ECHR case law: in the important decision Paksas v Lithuania of 6 January 2011, the Court did not consider the forfeiture of office and the subsequent ineligibility to the Parliament of the President of the Republic equal to a criminal penalty, for the purpose of applying Article 7 of the Convention; and so also in the numerous judgments relating to the loss of the right to vote, completely univocal in stating that a limitation, of the type currently under consideration, tends (of course) legitimately to the protection of democratic institutions. Still recently some decisions of the judiciary have been recorded in the sign of the full legitimacy of the decadent figure delineated by the Severino law: never any of them doubted the constitutional coherence of the legislation or resolved the non-application of the regulatory paradigm. Of all, very recent and last, the judgment of 29 October of the Council of State (V Section), whose words I believe should be noted. I read:'(...) the application of the preemptive cases referred to in the jus superveniens to judgments of conviction in an earlier period does not conflict with the deduced principle of the irretroactivity of the criminal law and, more generally, the sanctioning and grievous provisions, since the rule in question is not, even in a broad sense, sanctioning, penal or administrative provisions. The Junta has therefore combined the verification of the theoretical plan with the reading offered by the jurisprudential pronunciations. But not only that: it has tried to analyze the decadent institution in terms of the political and legal logic that characterized its legislative genesis. Against the objection for which the rule can apply only for facts committed from January 5, 2013 (day of entry into force of the so-called Severino law) and for which there has been (or rather, it should be said, there will be) sentence of condemnation, the Junta has observed how this approach would mean that, if any aspiring senator is condemned today (according to current norm) for facts of yesterday (i.e. before its entry into force), it could be freely candidate for tomorrow's elections, since the facts date back to a period during which the preclusive apparatus was not in force. To simplify, since I believe that it is necessary to do so, according to the ordinary procedural timetable, the application of the rule would be postponed by at least eight years, therefore to 2020 under average conditions, with peaks even until 2027 (at least for the more complex processes). It is all too easy to point out that, on this slope, all the systematic status would be overwhelmed by an irretroactivity firm to the fact from which the status originates. In essence, so rebuilt the issue of irretroactivity, all the legislation in question would be overwhelmed. And so not only the parts on incandidability, but also the part on incompatibility, on double functions. The whole architecture, that is, would be suspected of constitutional unreasonableness in a slippery slope destined to overwhelm the entire system of legislative decree n. 235 of 2012 and, probably, all the legislative forecasts of decadent type. I'm getting to the conclusion. It seems strange to have to remember it in a political assembly: being decisive or - to use the metaphor of the time that so much attention is paid to today - the ultra-activity of political opinion is also a political requirement. The stability of a political reasoning that preserves attitudes of coherence and rationality. This does not mean, of course, that the change in cultural situations cannot generate a change in viewpoints. However, this must be a significant, substantial change in the legitimate conditions, without which the resulting disorientation cannot be justified or tolerated. The majority of the Junta did not believe to find the reasons for such a sensitive and dramatic overruling, nor would the upheaval be equally explained in view of an alternative awareness to that which in December 2012 - and in the broad and reasoned discussions of the previous months - generated a legislative system that everyone hoped for and greeted with enthusiasm. The slogan "Out of the condemned by Parliament" meant, in the highest political message and in the collective imagination, the rediscovery of a legal rule in the name of which the outcome of a judicial affair - the outcome, not the beginning - must advise everyone a momentary departure from the political scene. We cannot ask now to give up this hope of political civilization, without the reason, beyond that of a single personal affair, being able to explain the legal error, so easily assimilated to a political fraud. Regulatory framework, practical application and systemic logic confirm the idea that decadence is perfectly applicable to the situation of Senator Berlusconi. The appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, brought to the attention of the Junta, has not changed this conviction, except in order to consolidate in us the conviction of the complexity of the debate and the need for a reflection extended also to the cross-border vision. The most probable (to the state) inadmissibility of the appeal in the absence of a current injury of inviolable individual rights and the inability of the same to produce suspensive effects did not exempt the Junta from recalling the previous Hirst against the United Kingdom (n. 2), nor the recent re-reading carried out by the Grand Chamber, judgment 22 May 2012, Scoppola v. Italy (n. (3) appeal 126/05, where, moreover, reasoning to measure certainly qualifying as an ancillary penalty, it emerges with sufficient evidence the principle according to which the Member States maintain a particularly wide margin of appreciation and, for it, the possibility to predetermine in abstract - through the provision of appropriate rules of law - the conditions to which the application of this measure follows. The decadent forecast certainly expresses a vision of democracy and the intention to pursue legitimate............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Finally, the defense of Senator Berlusconi... Conclude, Senator Stefano. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Stop! Senator Stefano, you're a good bugger. STEFANO, rapporteur. Senator Bondi, I... Conclude, Senator Stefano. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). You're a good bugger! He doesn't even know what he's reading. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , rapporteur. I was saying, the defence of Senator Berlusconi also introduced a different perspective, linked to the referability to the Court of Luxembourg and the idea of a so-called reference for a preliminary ruling. The difficult reconstruction of the compromise of a legal expectation, guaranteed by Community law and violated by the internal one, but also for the type of injury imagined pro futuro, renders the argument defensive permeable to two objections: the Junta, and I believe the Senate, is not a judge that can - or even, according to some, must - raise a preliminary question; nevertheless the question raised is not relevant, in the sense that the state of affairs is not discussing European eligibility but internal decadence, that is to say a cause of later ineligibility not immediately productive of any injury. In the absence, therefore, of the relevance and relevance which the reference for a preliminary ruling requires. The resolution of the Council is known to all: by majority it proposes to the Assembly of the Senate to deliberate the non-validation of the election of Senator Silvio Berlusconi, pursuant to article 3, paragraph 2, by legislative decree no. 235 of 31 December 2012. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, M5S and SCpI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u35	I would like to say that a number of incidental issues have been raised. He asked Senator Casini to explain the suspensive issue QS. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u36	Mr President, there are moments in the lives of people and institutions, such as those we live today, which are very important, relevant and question the conscience of each of us. Therefore - and I would like to say this at the outset of this brief speech - I am not interested in the applause of one or the other, because I know that this is a minority position, but I think it is right to express it. First of all, I would like to refer to the principle stated by President Stefano. The President spoke of the defence of the parliamentary institution. It is the defence of the parliamentary institution that leads me to present a suspensive issue. I believe that today we are at a crossroads in the history of this country: however it goes, it ends for twenty years. We certainly have different judgements to make, different judgments of Berlusconi and his political work. But, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should all agree that we cannot liquidate the history of these 20 years as a criminal event. We would lack respect not only and not so much in Berlusconi, but even more to all of us, to the Italian people who have voted for him on several occasions and also to those who, rightly and loyally, opposed him. In the same way, the Senate deserves respect. Whatever choice we make today, we will make it in a spirit of true national conscience; our opinions may be, yes, may be, but I hope they mature in absolute good faith. There is a common interest that unites us and I want to highlight it at the opening of this speech: to protect the figure of the President of the Republic from the controversy of the majority and opposition, because this controversy cannot in any way involve him. I have considered - frankly - the controversy with President Napolitano surreal; in particular, it is surreal an advanced controversy regarding the alleged decision to grant or not to grant grace, when in recent weeks, on several occasions, Berlusconi's lawyers themselves, have in several circumstances, publicly, in television and journalistic interviews, affirmed that in no way their assisted would have been interested in this request and that, even, the granting of a possible grace would have been detrimental to the interests of the individual parliamentarians. So we sweep off the table of our polemics the improper attempt to involve the Head of State. If anything, we're all in debt to the President of the Republic. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]] We made a national commitment to share a path and fell too soon into shop-partisaneries. Ladies and gentlemen, the affair of Berlusconi's decadence is well known: the judgment exists, it has gone to trial; the rules of the rule of law require it to be applied justly or wrongly. I am no longer so interested (I can be a citizen, but at this moment I am trying to ignore this aspect) in the claims that Berlusconi can legitimately produce in terms of new evidence, review of trial, appeals in Europe: all this is part of his right. Today we have another question ahead, which is that of the relationship that exists between this affair, a Senator of the Republic and the collegial body in which we sit. The indignation at this condemnation or accusations that are directed at a political party - in this case often the left - are completely out of place, because it is clear that no one in this House, either directly or indirectly, can have affected a different path, which takes place on a different level. What we are in today, however, is a place where judicial matters are interwoven with political issues. President Stefano, I certainly do not have your legal culture and you did a disquisition as it was your duty to do as President of the Council, but I would like to remain on some issues that have followed, because this affair has a path with a beginning and an end. Let's start with the Junta. With regard to the retroactive application or not of the Severino law, we had an animated discussion involving different expressions of institutions, culture, academies, universities. I note that some of the great personalities who have been sitting on the benches of the Constitutional Court, even as presidents, had in several circumstances expressed their opinion that the issue could legitimately be investigated - as a guarantee of Senator Berlusconi, because it is clear that the part on which any decision of the Senate falls today is Senator Berlusconi - the Constitutional Court, involving it in an expression of opinion. I am not talking about novices in law: I am talking about President Violante, President Capotosti, President Onida. All these opinions I think it would have been wise to take into account: they have not been taken into account and they have moved forward. We have reached the decision and today, even at the beginning of this sitting, some colleagues (I am referring to the very correct and exemplary Senator Buemi, who takes charge not of a political belonging, but of a personal and civil conscience) have raised the question of the secret vote. I, too, believe that the question of Berlusconi's involvement in the abstract application of the rule of the Severino law was very prevalent, and therefore I felt, in disagreement with the decision of the Presidency and of many colleagues, that it was necessary, in order to protect the individual, to accept the request for the secret vote, which seemed to me consistent with a path of the past. So the way to involve the Constitutional Court has been refused, the secret vote has been refused and this clear vote has appeared. Someone even theorizes that it is the people, it is the public opinion that imposed the obvious vote, but I do not know if we realize what we say because, if we really established this principle, we would establish a principle of subversion of legal civilization: it would mean that the rights no longer apply. I believe that principles must always be held firm: principles may be popular or unpopular, but either they exist or they do not exist. Well, there is a confrontation at three hundred sixty degrees and the fact that Berlusconi is today one of the leaders of the opposition should lead to more caution, without spirit of revenge nor with the objective of quickly liquidating an embarrassing practice that, among other things, will allow Berlusconi to rise to the victim of this affair. The Senate is preparing to bring down Berlusconi by applying the Severino law. I am not at all shocked by the merit, I am very concerned about the method: I cannot understand on the basis of what absurd race against time - it is said four months, but let's look at the other cases as they have been solved - we should declare Senator Berlusconi torn apart even more Senate and Country, instead of taking note of a simpler road: a ban that has occurred, already decided in the case of Cassation and of which we are waiting only for a technical temporal recount that will take away at most a few weeks of time. The removal from the electoral lists of the municipality of residence will solve at the root the problem of Berlusconi's membership of this House. We expose the Senate to the risk of an ever-possible acceptance of appeal by the European Court of Human Rights and we follow the furthest path, which, as I said, will allow Berlusconi to rise up as a victim of political persecution. We have the simplest solution, we do not follow it for inconsistent reasons but perhaps even too clear. Mr President, thank you. Whoever speaks has opposed Berlusconi at the moment of his greatest personal and political power (I refer to his great victory in 2008), therefore he is completely indifferent to the false representation of those who would like to divide this House between favorable and opposed to Berlusconi: here there are those who in conscience and for reasons of principle defend the rule of law, the Senate of the Republic and the institutions. For these reasons I propose the suspensive question and the postponement of the decision pending the decision of the Court of Cassation on the recounting of the ban. Peace is moving away, ladies and gentlemen, and I am certainly not one of those who welcome it. The responsibility is certainly, in the first place, of those who had said that he kept his judicial affair separate from the political question of the Letta Government and, with a total turn, changed the cards on the table. Let us be clear about these statements, let us not forget the sudden disintegrations, the attack on the head of the state: but, colleagues, and I have finished, in democracy, those who win have the duty of a supplement of responsibility and generosity. I hope that in the future we will not regret the road we have followed today. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senators Albertini and Buemi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u37	He asked Senator Giovanardi to explain the suspensive question QS1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I happened in Junta to use a little rougher than what I imagine will happen in this House today, calling'mascalzonata' what I would now like to explain to you and to the Italians. It is my point of view, but I think it is a point of view that, when we ask for it to be suspended, we must meditate. We are talking about events that took place ten years ago, because the sentence that would result in the forfeiture dates back to the years 2003-2004. At the proceedings of the Junta we have a judgment of 18 May 2012, with which the Court of Cassation, the second criminal section, confirms, making it irrevocable - therefore we are at the maximum level of the judgment - the sentence of dismissal of Silvio Berlusconi by the gup of Milan relating to the same identical fact subject to the sentence ( Mediaset rights) because, according to the Cassation, the elements collected against him are insufficient also for the simple referral to judgment. On 6 March 2013, i.e. this year, the Court of Cassation, the third criminal section, made irrevocable Silvio Berlusconi's decision of dismissal by the Rome gip (always related to Mediaset rights), because it considered insufficient the elements collected against him also for the simple referral to court. For the same fact, on July 30, 2013, the criminal working section of the Court of Cassation (and therefore not the natural judge pre-constituted by law; after the alarm of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) on the imminent prescription was in fact distracted the natural judge, that is the second or third criminal section) and, as is known, Berlusconi is convicted of tax fraud. Now, I would like to point out to my colleagues that a new principle of our system comes into force here (I am not talking about Berlusconi, but about each of us): a citizen can be tried for the same thing many times until he finds a judge who condemns him. In fact, this is what we are talking about, the assumption of the application of the so-called Severino law. Evidently, Article 649 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the defendant acquitted or sentenced by a judgment or criminal decree that has become irrevocable cannot be again subjected to criminal proceedings for the same fact, even if this is otherwise considered for the title, the degree or the circumstances, does not apply anymore. I am a realist: condemnation is there and is applied; it is stated that justice takes its course. Alas, I personally consider the sentence of Dr. Esposito unfair, but the consequences are social services or house arrests; moreover, the Milan Court of Appeal has decided two years of suspension from public offices. To the Senate, however, this is not enough, because the so-called Severino law that states that the judicial consequences of this sentence - I repeat, unjust - must be added a decadence, which today will be voted by this Assembly, with the ban for six years by public offices. In fact, according to the Severine law there is decadence. Attention: it is a matter of decadence for moral unworthiness, because Senator Berlusconi - as has been said authoritatively in the Junta - with his presence pollutes the Senate. It is added, then, that this is not a penalty: there would be more! The rapporteur explained to us that decaying as a senator with infamy is not a pain. Article 25, second paragraph, of the Constitution states that "no one can be punished" - it is said that punishment - "if not under a law that entered into force before the fact committed". I invite my colleagues to reread the acts of the Constituent, when John Leo emphasized the difference between a democratic system, the one to which we returned, and the Nazi or Communist regime fixed precisely on the principle of non-retroactivity of the penalty, whatever it was. Leo said that this principle had to be reconsecrated in our Constitutional Charter. Ladies and gentlemen, I am impressed because here have been mentioned by my colleague Casini Luciano Violante, Valerio Onida, Piero Alberto Capotosti and I could say Andrea Manzella, all politically sided on the left; I add, however, also Marcello Gallo, Gaetano Insolera, Paolo Armaroli and, if you like, pro veritate, Giovanni Guzzetta, Beniamino Caravita, Giuseppe de Vergottini, Niccolò Zanon, Roberto Nania, Giorgio Spangher, Gustavo Pansini, Antonella Marandola: the Gotha of Italian penalist and constitutionalist culture. Well, the rapporteur liquidates all of this by saying: there is clearly no manifest unsubstantiatedness. Is there no manifest unsubstantiatedness? If this is the parameter, no law will ever go to the Constitutional Court because more elements of fumus of unconstitutionality of a law such as retroactivity in this case I don't think they have ever been reported by Italian legal science. So, what are we doing? I would like to refer to what Mr Casini said. We overlap politically with Italian justice, we do not respect the judgment (even if for me unfair) of the Court of Cassation and its consequences and we establish, from the political point of view, above all with a non-secret political vote (another force in this situation), that to a single Italian citizen - we are clear: the retroactivity of this rule came into force in January of this year for a fact committed ten years ago -, to a single senator and deputy in this legislature can be applied retroactivity, and this is called Silvio Berlusconi. I don't know a norm applied more ad personam than this! So, we assume the responsibility to overlap with justice, which involves two years, while we say six years. Moreover, with this scoundrelship the Senate risks in the future (because this is a historic day) to be contradicted tomorrow by the Constitutional Court, by the European bodies, by a possible revision of the trial. To what conclusion? Why would the Senate be Maramaldo? Why must this be Maramaldo's country that is not content that the political opponent is struck (in my opinion unjustly), but also wants to rage with an interpretation of the norm? In conclusion, fellow senators, this reminds me of the famous anecdote that quoted the unforgettable Francesco Cossiga, when he said that, when on Friday the prelates had only a steak on the table, that is, meat, because that day was to be eaten only fish, baptized the fish meat and ate it quietly. So, here it is being established that it is not a pain that a fellow senator in office is being expelled from the Senate with unworthiness, but it would be merely, in bureaucrat, an application of a rule that does not concern a person, but institutions. I do not believe that hypocrisy can come to this point and I believe that in the face of history, and not today's current situation, the Members who will vote for the decadence will make a huge political mistake and, in some way, will degrade the function of this institution. I make a very practical argument, not sharing the sentence: if the Constitutional Court had wronged those who said that the law is not retroactive, we would have done in time to the two years to add another four; from two would have gone up to six. If the Constitutional Court were to say that there is no retroactivity, and therefore what we are doing today is illegitimate, the two years of ban from public offices would always remain. So the thing that we are doing today, or that the majority wants to do in this House, is totally wrong and morally unacceptable. And historically those who make this decision will assume a very heavy and negative responsibility in front of the country. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u39	She asked Senator Mussolini to explain the suspensive question QS6. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u40	Mr President, you must forgive me, but on this atypical day - it has been called abnormal - I will take the cue from a technical fact, contained in the suspensive issue. It is all well known to you, Mr President, and I would like to remind you briefly: the Presidency Council, the record of violations of the Chamber of Council, the secrecy, my sanctioning proposal which has not been mentioned in the Minutes and your letter which does not take into account a false record, declaring the sitting closed. But you see, Mr President, I am not just going to talk about this, because so far I have not felt humanity, I have not felt heart, I have not felt feelings. The real suspensive question is not due to these technicalities (Article 8 or Article 113 of the Rules of Procedure), but is linked to a human question, an ethical question, a political question. And then, precisely because I have great respect for the Senate Chamber, I do not appeal to those who do their work, and it is obvious. This morning we talked about the clear vote and the secret vote: but it is President Berlusconi himself who would have asked for the clear vote to see who would vote in favour and who against. And so today, Mr President, I turn to those who were with us, to former friends. We have broken up perhaps incorrectly between hawks and doves, but there is another animal species, a small fish with sharp teeth that bites behind: it is the piranha. And then Alfano, whom I call him Lino, since Angelino has nothing at all, said that it is not true that yesterday we went to the opposition not because of the decadence of our President Berlusconi, but because a large amendment had not been tabled, because taxes have been increased, because the technical report - what ever happened - has not been attached to the same maxi amendment [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We went to the opposition and the piranha, little fish, said that this was an already prepared opposition. No! To honour the truth, it was prepared and warped the betrayal a year and a half ago, with Italy Popular. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] And then I want to mention and name all those who are not here, the so-called ministers, who arrived there not on merit, but by method: Lorenzin, De Girolamo, Lupi, whose last name is all a program. [[Laughter. Comments from the PD Group.]] I said wolves: I'm not saying anything special. I am correct and also mild and kind. Then there are Quagliariello and the already mentioned Alfano. Since we went to the opposition just yesterday, I hope that the Undersecretaries who remained in the government and signed to stay with us, in Forza Italia, can resign, for consistency. Someone told me: President Berlusconi must ask me to do so. No, I ask you: resign, for consistency! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I see President Schifani, Senators Quagliariello and Formigoni, Senator Vicari - former friends of ours - and I ask them: how do you support what happened yesterday? Because the problem is not today's question. Yesterday the Constitution was violated, yesterday the Rules of Procedure of the Senate were changed. How do you vote for a pig like this financial and how do you give these sticky votes today? I thank our Parent Company, Senator Romani, and the Deputy Parent Company, Senator Bernini, who are correct people. For the moment, they're sitting in a position where they seem to be in charge, but that's not true, and then they're gonna move. [[Laughter.]] If I had been the Leader, I would not have accepted your votes and your support: hypocrites! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo! Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). It is true what President Berlusconi said: you are armchairists! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] When they sit in the armchairs, they don't take them off from underneath! And then I ask you for some consistency, but above all something that is not there: gratitude. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] You've reached a point of no return. But so much the piranha Alfano I have already named him "Al‐Fini" and you will do the same. You are not in the center-right, but support the only left-wing government! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Left is a big word. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). You're the ones who approved the tax increase. Shame on you! Everyone who's here is embarrassed. We do not want your votes and your support! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Ironic applause from Senator Formigoni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u43	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, proposing that the document should not be discussed, because the Council, in its work and in its deliberations, has not taken into account the fact that our Constitution and all the main legal texts, including international ones, prohibit the retroactive application of sanctions. They would make me smile at the notes that this would not be a sanction, but a moral question, they would make me laugh at these subtle distinctions, if they did not come also from people who, in their lives outside Parliament, judged and judged the freedom and the right of people. Then the smile passes me and I get a great worry about our country. I recall, with regard to irretroactivity, Article 25 of our Constitution, for which no one can be punished except by virtue of a law that entered into force before the fact committed and similar statues of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Of course, not all countries have applied these principles: they have not, for example, done so by Nazi Germany, the Soviet Union of Stalin and the China of Mao. However, there have also been similarities in our country, but I will return to it after I have put it as a suspensive issue - this is the second incident I present - the proposal to postpone the discussion of this document until the Assembly has decided on the basis of the resolution of the Council for the Rules that changed the Rules. Then, for the amendments to our Rules of Procedure, Rule 167 says that we must go to the House on the basis of a proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on which the House is debating; amendments can be tabled, and we can vote - as it happens - with the secret vote. Changing the Rules of Procedure of the Senate through a so-called interpretation is an act of assault on legality, that legality that fills the mouth of so many moralists: a blatant assault, shameless, violent to legality. Therefore, I propose that the matter be decided after the House has stated - if it will - that the Rules of Procedure have changed, since the President has already announced that he wants to vote with the clear vote at all costs. This, bearing in mind that that of the Council for the Rules of Procedure is an opinion, deliberated by about fifteen - if I remember correctly - of very respectable colleagues, who are not the majority of the Senate because the absolute majority of the Senate is the one prescribed by the Rules of Procedure to change it. [[Senator Palma's comments.]] As Mr Palma rightly suggests, there were not fifteen people but seven out of thirteen (seven to six ended). That of the Junta is an opinion, while the Rules of Procedure of the Senate reads: However, voting on persons and elections by means of ballots shall be carried out by secret ballot. My colleague Lo Moro, with her grace and lovely smile, told us that Di Girolamo's affair is different; in fact, it is both cases of decadence for ineligibility. The real difference is not that Di Girolamo was in one phase and here we are in another: the real difference is that today we talk about Silvio Berlusconi and when we talk about Silvio Berlusconi many, unfortunately, feel authorized to upset any rule and modesty. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I would like to say that this is the first time this has happened in this Parliament, but this is not the first time; there is a precedent: 9 November 1926. On moral matters, the House decided to bring down the members of the House. There was a series of small violations of the Rules of Procedure, of course, because nowhere was the rule written that there was a moral decadence. The moral reason was that the possessors did not take part in the work of Parliament and therefore created no room for the institutions of the State. Then there was another forcing, based on interpretations of the Rules of Procedure, because to introduce a new topic it would take three quarters of the members of the Assembly, but since the possessans did not participate in the proceedings and the three quarters could not be reached, the President of the Chamber decided that in that case they did not count. A series of forcings, one after the other, and we know how the story ended. There were other forcings because communist MPs, while participating in the work, were equally included in the act that decreed the decadence, so much the spirit was that: to take out the opposition, so everything was fine. Now, I do not want our homeland to go in this direction and I appeal to the conscience of each one, remembering that the only thing necessary for evil to prevail, as a great writer has said, is that good people do nothing. On that 9 November 1926 there were also decent people; there are so many here, and while they did nothing then, I hope that this will not be repeated today, because it would be a very sad page for our country and our institutions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u44	I call Senator Alberti Casellati to explain the suspensive issues QS2, QS3, QS4 and QS5.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to explain all the questions that are so important because they all have as their object the request to refer the debate back to the Junta. Mr President, first of all, I would like to say how, unlike the rapporteur, Mr Stefano, all the work of the Junta has been played on a anything but legal level. Today we even heard that Berlusconi is a number, not a person. It just doesn't add up. The work of the Junta has given rise - and I say this with great regret - to a dispute that has constituted the continuation by political means of the war that for twenty years has been carried out prodigiously against Silvio Berlusconi. So I would just like to explain a few aspects of the preliminary and suspensive questions that demonstrate the many irregularities - I say this by sample - which have unfortunately been used up in the election committee and which continue to be used up in this House. Mr President, we have already talked about the violation of the secrecy of all the documents that have come from the election committee. The violation of the obligation of secrecy implies inadmissibility. You, Mr President, answered with a letter that is full of contradictions. He even came to contradict himself where - I say for example, because contradictions are frankly too many - he argued that there is no word "secret" in the regulation of the Junta, ignoring that the council chamber is secret by definition according to Articles 276 of the Code of Civil Procedure and 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. You wrote it yourself in the record. You must reread your own record where you say that all deliberations of the board are secret, and confidential. So, unfortunately, you also forget what you said just now. In this way it was not allowed to express itself to the members of the highest collegial body of guarantee and of the technical-legal legitimacy of the Senate's action, in ways actually pretentious. I come to another irregularity consumed: President Stefano argued that there was a need to have the contradictory, and he was even summoned, as a party, the Di Giacomo, which I had suffered eccepito. Giacomo is not a part of it, because there is no appeal here: there is only one resistor. It is as if, in a judgment between a landlord and a tenant, one might call the new tenant as a counterinterested person; it is as if I were buying an apartment, having a problem and calling my children who will have rights when I die. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Again, if President Stefano really believed that Di Giacomo was a party (which I do not agree with), because we have established that this is a lack of validation (she teaches me, and here there are flourishing lawyers, unless there are two different codes, the one applicable to everyone and the other for Silvio Berlusconi), then, we have witnessed another abuse. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] If you really thought you were in the presence of a lack of validation, then we know that the effectiveness is ex tunc, i.e. since then. For this reason, President Stefano, having not even Silvio Berlusconi could make an option, should have called the second of all the Italian districts where Silvio Berlusconi was on the lists. He should have done this. It's still another irregularity. I have also heard, Mr President, once again that this is not a sanction. But if it is true, President Stefano, that the judgment of the Milan Court of Appeal came later to the work of the Junta, all the more reason, today we must review this resolution, because the court of appeal, pronounced on the case of Silvio Berlusconi, has defined the decadence an administrative sanction. Then, for the first time, because this is the case (all say that this is the first time that this rule applies), there is a new legal element: it is very important, because it is capable of leading to conclusions totally opposed to those of the Junta; it is unique, President, because it lacks a doubting aspect (it is so written in the judgment); finally, it is a specific element, because it is relevant to this case. This resolution should therefore be revisited. Otherwise, Mr President, I believe - as Senator Malan said very well before - that we no longer have respect for the institutions, because if we do not respect the principles, the rules and the rule of law and the rule of law fail, I am really afraid for democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u46	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and a group representative will be able to speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u49	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, the Severino law has introduced into our system an institute, that of incandidability for parliamentary offices. This institution had never been foreseen so far, because it was limited to elective territorial positions, which do not enjoy the same constitutional guarantee. Hence - and I hope not to provoke enmity or indignation on the part of my colleague Stefano - I in the Senate voted against the Severino law: for constitutional reasons. My colleague, Mr Casini, voted in favour, but this morning I recognized myself in many of his arguments. In fact, while there is an article in our Constitution, Article 51, which says that the legislator has a certain freedom of determination of the passive electorate, for the national Parliament (Article 65, which comes before Article 66) cannot and must not do so. I'll explain the reasons. All, even the rapporteur Stefano in some passages of his speech, distinguish between institute of ineligibility and institute of incandidability: they are two institutes that do not coincide. Frankly, Senator Stefano, or Mr Severino, I do not understand how the legislator could afford to apply the second case to the elections for Parliament. And it is mere hypocrisy, in the worst sense of the expression "right." I would like to mention Mr Malan and say that the Severino law, in violation of Article 65 of the Constitution, refers to Article 66: that is why, on the substance of the matter which is the subject of our attention, the Severino law (the question proposed by Senator Casini has very well remembered it) has the effect of doubling the duration of the interdictive measure. So frankly, I do not know exactly how the Members who proposed to us in Junta their majority and the resignation of Mr Augello could argue that these effects in the Severino law do not participate in the suffering criminal nature of the previous ones. When there is no prohibition the Severino law produces its same effects, approving subjects sentenced to the ancillary penalty and subjects without penalty accessory. Hence the cogent force, common sense, of Senator Casini's proposal, and in some way I move to the sides of Senator Giovanardi's proposal and the intervention of my colleague Alberti Casellati. Because then the text of the Severino law does not specify the types of crime whose determination would lead to incandidability: we only refer to the so-called edittal penalties. So how do you determine this in a constitutional order? I am sorry for Mr Stefano: I very much appreciate your calmness on the subject, but I cannot accept the final argument on which, by asking the Constitutional Court to give its opinion, the democratic nature of a people who want a clean Parliament would have been violated. You can attack me politically and personally because I want the Parliament dirty, having voted against the Severino law, but in a free country what is constitutional for someone has every right to be unconstitutional for others. Colleagues on the left, I listened to the arguments of Senator Russo who said that this is such a new case that the junta for the Rules of Procedure should have been convened again, but at the same time it was so new that constitutional control should have been avoided. But this is disgusting in a Parliament! Applying a law does not mean subtracting it from constitutional control. And the verification of constitutionality on this matter who can propose it but the House of belonging? Among other things, I remind my colleagues who come from the PCI and the PDS - as it was then called - that at the time of the D'Alema Bicameral Commission your proposal was that even a minority of members of a Chamber, in such cases, after the vulnus of Article 68 of the Constitution, could bring an action before the Constitutional Court. Because constitutionalism is this! It is a guarantee of the minority of the drunken people against the majority of the sober people. That is what Senator Casini said, with whom I congratulate on the argument he has put forward: in democracy those who win, those who have the majority must have even more responsibility and even more respect for the opponent. That is what constitutional issues are for. I hope that I have not failed to respect and friendship the rapporteur, Mr Stefano, in proclaiming my firm dissent not so much from his considerations but from his conclusion. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u52	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, in recent months, and also this morning, of course, in this House, many arguments have been put forward and many issues and obstacles have been encamped on the decadence of Senator Berlusconi, and in our view this has happened very often in a very presumptuous way. It was proposed, in fact, to postpone this vote until after the final decision of the Court of Cassation on the requantification of the ancillary penalties established by the Milan Court of Appeal. Why? In reality, it is two separate questions - as it has been explained - even if they refer to the same story, that intervenes that is on the right of active and passive electorate in totally different forms: one pertains to the non validation of an election and the other, instead, to the ban from public offices. But, above all (and this is the underlying point also political) why should politics delegate to the judiciary what is its precise task and its precise duty, abdicating its role? And how come those who, usually, on the contrary, historically thunder against the alleged trespasses of the judiciary today ask to put back to it a decision that instead belongs to politics, that is to say to this Assembly, perhaps with the alibi of a rapacification of the country that, however, cannot be consumed on the application of a law? I also say this to President Casini, whose argument I do not agree with, because I do not think that we can confuse a purely political assessment with the application of the law. Moreover, when, in the general applause of this Parliament, perhaps with some exceptions, but in any case with the almost unanimous support of this Parliament, in particular of the former PdL, the Severino law was passed, everyone said that politics finally had an ethical code to prevent the dignity and credibility of Parliament from being harmed by the presence of people condemned definitively. That code must be respected today, otherwise the dignity and credibility of this Parliament, which has unfortunately already been severely tested, would probably be consumed forever. By the way, precisely because it is a regulation that Parliament has voted as a form of self-regulation, I do not think that we can be accused of violating the general principle of non-retroactivity of laws. This is our opinion; of course there are others, but it seems undeniable to us that the Severino law indicates a number of requirements for candidacy. It is not a penalty or an ancillary sanction, but, in fact, a requirement. So the question of retroactivity in our view has no foundation. In fact, it is the same ratio that rightly led the Junta to the choice of the clear vote. Even less well-founded, we believe the reference to the petition sent to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The decision that the Senate is called upon to take today does not concern the candidacy of the European Parliament. If and when the problem arises, it will be resolved at European level and it is not up to us today to decide whether the opinion of the European Court of Justice should be requested in that case. In any case, we consider that opinion to be completely irrelevant with regard to the vote on the non-validation of an Italian Parliament senator. It seems to us, once again, that the request to postpone the vote on Senator Berlusconi's forfeiture pending the European Court's ruling on human rights is irreconcilable. In our view, it cannot be thought that the mere submission of an appeal would have a suspensive effect on the application of an Italian law. As you well understand, however, this mechanism, where approved, could always be used by anyone. We also believe that the remarks that have been raised in recent months, for example on the so-called post-Goliardic sent by Senator Crimi, which from our point of view is totally wrong and inappropriate, but which was sent before the beginning of the work of the council and, as is clear, given the character, that post did not affect even to any extent the work in progress. Today, to hold that case to invalidate the vote, in which, moreover, representatives of the centre-right participated, thus implicitly recognizing the validity of the vote, responds once again only and exclusively to the logic of taking time. So the question I ask myself and what I am asking you is this: what new element did you intervene to imagine that a new internal discussion within the Junta, in which all elements have already been broken down, would lead to a different outcome? I think we need to ask ourselves these questions. We have to put them out loud in this House. We have to put them because the country looks at us. We must put them to all of us. I also put them to the representatives of the centre-right, because I think that this delaying tactic does not render a good service to anyone and unfortunately undermine the credibility and image of the country, already deeply cracked in the eyes of the Italians, of politics and of Parliament. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u55	DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Mr President, as a member of the Civic Choice Group, I shared and approved President Stefano's report. Today, in announcing the contrary vote on the prejudices and the suspensives, I confirm the validity of that judgment and the adherence to this morning's report by President Stefano. I believe that we all have a duty today to be serious and rigorous. It is an obligation that we have out of respect for the personality that has marked political and institutional life over the last twenty years and of which we could today mark the parliamentary destiny, even if I do not believe the political one. We must be strict because we are serious about that political part which denounces an abuse, which we do not recognise. I also believe that today is the time of the "yes" and "no" and no longer the time to introduce dilatory or diversionary elements. That is why I and other colleagues will certainly vote against the prejudices and suspensive measures that have been tabled. I only touch two themes. The first is that of constitutionality. It is true that some constitutionalists, however few, but authoritative, have indicated the possibility of requesting a judgment from the Council. But it is equally true that the majority of constitutionalists, equally authoritative, even doubt the possibility of reaching the Council itself. In any case, the vast majority of those who have pronounced themselves, even among those constitutionalists in some way "aperturists" on the possibility of proposing the matter to the judgment of the Consulta, have expressed no doubts about the constitutionality of the law n 6 November 2012, n. 190, so-called Severino law, and of the legislative decree n. 235 of 31 December 2012, so-called Monti-Cancellieri-Severino, published in the Official Gazette on 4 January 2013. There's a point, I say that as a legislator. Together with many colleagues in this House, I have followed carefully the entire drafting and approval phase of the Severino law. It was very clear to me and, I believe, to the vast majority of those who voted on that law (without even, as usually happens, being preconstitutional), that the text was intended to mark a discrimination for the upcoming elections and subsequent ones, providing for the incandidability for those who had been sent final sentences of condemnation for certain crimes punished with the penalties quantitatively defined by the aforementioned legislative decree. And it was clear that we had in our minds (and we said publicly) names such as those of Fiorito, of Lusi, of personalities that in our opinion should be reported to the public as incanditable, people who had already committed the crimes in question. (at 12.15 p.m.) (Followed by VEDOVA). That is why we have all voted for this law firmly in the last legislature, claiming the so-called Severino law, then Monti-Cancellieri‐Severino, as an element of concrete response to the public opinion. Then what descended from it descended. It was equally clear that the principle, which some say is that of retroactivity, was already present, sanctioned by the Constitutional Court for other types of crime, without even minimum levels of punishment, up to the Regional Councils, knowing that in the Regional Councils the decadence proceeds on its own, because it cannot be, as in the case that we rightly do, for the constitutional prerogatives of Parliament, we are debating, after considering a parliamentary vote. That is why I reject the question of a preliminary ruling linked to the need for further parliamentary scrutiny, partly because I would not - and I say this incidentally - that Parliament, finally recognising - and I am pleased - that the Constitutional Court is a truly third and impartial judge, gets to the point of submitting the established legislation in advance. The second element that I would like to consider is the suspensive question introduced by Senator Casini, which had been addressed in Junta, which Mr Buemi raised, but without the debate being particularly heated, precisely because - as President Stefano has said on several occasions and even today - the ban from public offices and the decadence of former Severino law are two parallel roads that are not destined in any way to meet. Among other things, if, through this road, Parliament forgot to apply its own law, adopted by an overwhelming majority a year ago, for no other reason than to take some time, we would find ourselves, even in the event of the decadence following the final ruling on the ban on public offices, exactly in the same situation as we are today, that is, with a procedure destined to pass to the Junta and then for a vote in the Senate House where, understandably, those who believe that everything is based on an aggressive, wrong and unfounded judgment, would re-examine exactly the same issues. I believe, therefore, that today is the time of loyalty and seriousness to colleagues on the political side who feel differently about this and that it is, as far as I am concerned, simply the time for the application of a law that we wanted by an overwhelming majority, which has been positively welcomed by public opinion and that we cannot pretend to hide or deny for political convenience. By conviction those who were in Parliament in the last parliamentary term voted on the Severino law; with conviction many of us claim the goodness of that law and, like it or not, without satisfaction of any kind, we vote today, rejecting questions of prejudice and suspensive, not against someone, but for the application of a good law. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u58	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, in relation to the suspensive issue, as a 5 Star Movement Group, we would like to point out a question of eligibility, which involves most of the incidental issues raised. (at 12.20 a.m.) (Follow BUCCARELLA). I refer more specifically to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by QS2, QS3, QS4 and QS5. The point of inadmissibility, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the fact that in the final request for the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, there is a reminder and a call for a resolution pursuant to Rule 135-b (2) of the Rules of Procedure. An invocation which is obviously completely erroneous and out of place, given that, as the one who knows the Rules of Procedure even better than we do, since for a few decades it has been practicing, the questions referred for a preliminary ruling such as those de quibus can be invoked exclusively for the purposes of Article 93, so much so that the proposals put forward in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling end, in the last paragraph, with the literal wording: 'deliberate', pursuant to Article 135-b (2) and so on, depending on the deductions made therein. For these reasons, the questions referred for a preliminary ruling must, in our opinion, be simply declared inadmissible and it is unnecessary to spend more time on them. Different is the case of Senator Casini's suspensive signature, where Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure was correctly invoked. On the substance of the matter, namely the need to wait for the definition of the ancillary penalty of the ban before being able to decide on the question of non-validation, the observations that the previous colleague has just made, namely the LaPalissian observation that these are two completely different things, are valid. In fact, we are called here to reason on the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities which provides for the non-validation of incandidability resulting from the known condemnation; the ancillary sanction of the ban from public offices follows its own path and has nothing to do with the work of this House. On the substance, therefore, the question of suspensive QS7, signed by Senator Casini, is unfounded and inconsistent. The same observations also apply to the suspension of QS1, first signed by Giovanardi, where the question of the prohibition from public offices is also one of the points mentioned, but the same judgment of inconference and unfoundedness deserve the following paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the preliminary question signed by Giovanardi, relating to the desirability or need to wait for the preliminary ruling of the European Court of Human Rights on the admissibility of the European Court of Human Rights, to wait for the decision of the Court of Appeal to review the judgment of conviction submitted, we learn here, on 26 November 2013, i.e. yesterday (copy of which in any case it would be appropriate to have availability), as well as the decision of the European Commission. The last remaining question with regard to this inevitable destiny of inadmissibility, and which does not contain an erroneous reference to Article 135-b, is the QS6, where the question of the validity of the vote expressed by the Assembly of the elections with reference to the chamber of council for the alleged, asserting propalations made through social networks by some members of that Junta is raised in a really tired and a little plural way. The question, which has already been addressed by the Presidency Council, is a total inconsistency, given that each of us has been able to verify the total absence of profiles that can even remotely suggest a violation of the principle of secrecy that may have affected the deliberations and voting of the Junta. For all these reasons, I believe it is legitimate for us to ask that we continue further, after declaring the inadmissibility and/or the unfoundedness of all the suspensive issues so far filed. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Zanda and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u61	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I will try to be brief and to interact with my colleagues on the issues they have raised in the debate. First of all, given the brevity of the intervention, that the argument that seems to me most significant, also for how it was communicated and disclosed outside, is that according to which the legislative decree Severino would violate a fundamental principle of our criminal system, that of the irretroactivity of the penal norm. In this regard, I would like to recall and read Article 25, second paragraph, of the Constitution, which provides that "No one can be punished except under a law that entered into force before the fact committed" and I also want to say, without reading it, that a similar principle is enshrined in Article 7 of the Convention on Human Rights. This is a very important principle: it is one of the first to be acquired in school preparation for criminal law. It is, of course, about the incriminating rules. Let us immediately clear the field from a fact: we are not faced with an incriminating norm, because, whatever the grievous character of the norm introduced by the legislative decree Severino on incandidability, surely no one is in a position to say that it is an incriminating norm. It has also been said, quite rightly, that the principle of irretroactivity which the Constitution lays down with regard to the incriminating rules also concerns administrative sanctions. In this case it is a principle introduced by a law of the State, and it is also an important principle. However, we also establish another concept: just as it is for criminal law, for administrative sanctions too, it is only the more or less grievous nature of a rule, that is, the fact that a rule restricts our rights, can be considered in itself and can lead us to qualify the norm itself as an administrative sanction. Administrative sanctions are typical, regulated by law, as is the case with criminal law. Another evocative argument, which also saw the Assembly warm up, was introduced by the last sentence on the Berlusconi case, the one that determined in two years the ban from public offices, where it was said that the application of the sanction of incandidability was the responsibility not of the judicial authority - evidently this had been requested - but of the administrative authority. On the concept that it could have been defined by a judgment not as a criminal or administrative sanction, but more generally as a sanction, we have been prolonged in a previous debate in this House, claiming that this was proof that we were faced with a grievous rule. We must bear in mind not only Article 25, but all the articles of the Constitution, and I would like to remind you of others in order to then support an assumption absolutely contrary to what has been advocated here. First of all, I would like to mention Article 65 of the Constitution, which is what concerns us most this morning. It states that: "The law determines cases of ineligibility and incompatibility with the office of deputy or senator." What else has the Severino legislative decree done if not to avoid contradicting the Constitution, by introducing by law cases of ineligibility as provided for in Article 65 of the Constitution? Then, that incandidability is an ineligibility of a particular character I do not think we can doubt, because besides the doctrine also the jurisprudence is conformed on the point, and therefore I think that no one can seriously doubt it. Another article in the Constitution that I could quote, since we all care about the Constitution here, is Article 48, which concerns the active electorate, where it is said that: The right to vote, i.e. the active electorate, may not be limited except by civil incapacity or by the effect of irrevocable criminal judgment or in cases of moral unworthiness indicated by law. I quote this article for two reasons: first, because there has been talk here of moral indignity, and it must be clear that none of us, in a secular state, must invoke the concept of unworthiness if not linked to a codification of the indignity sanctioned by a law of the State; otherwise it would make no sense. We are not priests, we are not references, or rather we should also be moral and ethical references, but we are not here in this capacity: we apply the laws of the State. I would also like to mention that Article 48 of the Constitution, with regard to the active electorate, is more binding on the legislator, while Article 65 is free. In fact, the speech of the judgment passed in court could still be taken as a reference because it concerns the active electorate, but it is not said that it was even necessary - as we then decided as legislators - a judgment passed in court to introduce an ineligibility. Then, we are faced with the application of the Constitution and with a law strongly desired, at a difficult time in our Republic, by all political forces; in fact, that law had fathers and mothers in all political forces, because each of us has claimed their paternity and motherhood. We are faced with a law that we do not like at first application and we start to hinder it. Certainly the Democratic Party does not do this, which - I remember - in the last parliamentary term supported, through the current Minister for relations with Parliament and the secretary of the time, Bersani, that incandidability could also be introduced before a judgment only at first instance for crimes of particular gravity. Therefore, we are faced with a first application, and today, since the recipient of this first application is called Silvio Berlusconi, it scares us. I have much respect for this and, as you can see, I have also taken the smile off my lips, because I do not think that any political force or any senator can discuss with lightness and joy such a matter, such seriousness for the country and also for Italian politics. The problem, however, is whether or not we should apply a state law. Having said that, with reference to the nature of incandidability, I would also like to clarify our position with regard to the other problem raised here. It has been said that we have not listened to the constitutionalists or, in any case, the authoritative thinkers and politicians, also of our side, of the Democratic Party (you mentioned in many Violants, in the Junta and here too), who have argued that the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity could possibly raise the exception of unconstitutionality. The fact that these authoritative - and I stress authoritative - members of the PD or constitutionalists have raised the problem may meet or fail to meet the consensus. In any case (I repeat it for what concerns me, because then there would be no consensus, in Junta we checked that there was no majority of this kind, as there is not even in the Senate), to raise an exception of unconstitutionality there had to be the requirement of merit. Then, I say to all of us, especially those who today are dressed in common sense, that a respected judge, a political body that respects itself, with such delicate functions, cannot refuse to interpret it and establish that, "the effects are devastating to the Court". In fact, the Court asks itself when there are substantive procedural requirements for questioning it. This question, if the interpretation which I gave it and which Parliament gave in the 16th legislature is correct (and I and my entire Group believe it to be correct and the only one possible), does not give rise to any interpretation doubts of this importance, or indeed of any importance. As has been established by the Court and the judges of merit with reference, not to parliamentarians, but to municipal, provincial and regional councillors, we are in front of an institution that introduces requirements for candidacy. Therefore, today we know, from the moment of the entry into force of this law on, and therefore for the future with respect to the law enacted and to the legislative decree issued on the basis of a delegation, which from that moment on is not candidate who is in those conditions. Then, reference has been made to the fact that the crime had to be committed before or after: this aspect does not, however, detect, because it is enough to look at the law in a dispassionate way, as we have written and voted it, to find that the crime is not recalled in it, because the sentence is called exclusively. I remind you that we are in the presence of a judgment that has become final after the entry into force of the Severino law, so much so that at this moment we are applying a transitional rule precisely because the case has emerged in the validation phase of the elected, and so we were in a position to be in front of not a pre-candidate cancellation from the candidates, but we had to intervene at a different stage. Furthermore, I want to say to my colleague, Mr Casini, that I often like him, but this morning I did not like him at all, that precisely because we are a secular state, it cannot be that outside there are those who are good and those who are not, those who have political sense and those who do not have it. The laws of the State, President Casini, are all respected, even if at the moment when we respect them something happens that can be difficult to deal with politically. And it is in that law that we wrote that (apart from the fact that the concept is in itself different) incandidability operates regardless of the ban, which intervenes immediately regardless of the ban. It is in that law that we have established that the duration of incandidability is independent of the duration of the ban, and indeed intervenes even when the ban from the public offices is not there. Today we must not determine any duration and we cannot split and divide between those who are happy and those who do not apply a law of the State, because the laws of the State apply always and in any case and not according to the circumstances. So, I would have expected Senator Casini to speak more strictly technical-juridical and not a speech of political convenience. Otherwise, who listens to us could think of those who, like us in the Democratic Party Group on this subject, never wavered, making the Severino law a flag, even considered it not enough at that stage because they certainly wanted to do more? We continue to think that that law is a good law, certainly perfectible, that we can discuss many things, but that today is a sad moment, above all - I say it on a personal level - because a person who has held positions as important as Silvio Berlusconi has not been able to perceive that maybe it was the time to take a step back and not to put the Senate in a position to sanction its decadence. So much. We'll do our duty. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u62	We must now proceed to the vote on the incidental issues. I ask the senators to take their seats, because it is a matter of vote by show of hands. I put the question referred by Senator Malan to the vote. It's not approved. I put to the vote the suspensive question raised, with several reasons, by Senator Giovanardi and other Senators (QS1), Senator Alberti Casellati and other Senators (QS2, QS3, QS4 and QS5), Senator Mussolini and other Senators (QS6), Senator Casini (QS7) and Senator Malan. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u65	BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I ask you and your fellow senators if, in conscience, they really consider morally... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u66	Please be quiet. If I give someone the floor, they must have a chance to speak without being disturbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u67	BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. I would therefore ask my fellow senators whether they consider it morally appropriate and acceptable that those newly appointed by the Head of State Senators for Life [[Applause from GroupFI-PdL XVII),]] I believe that they are not distinguished by an active presence in the work of our Senate, they are present today to vote on a fact as capital as the decadence of a senator, president of the Italian centre-right. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups.]] Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bondi has run out of surgery. According to agreements... Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Piano never came to the Chamber! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, you didn't ask for the floor. He is a Vice President of the Senate: please at least respect his role. [[Comments from Senators Malan and Alberti Casellati.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u70	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find the speech by Senator Bondi absolutely unacceptable. My fellow senators for life perform their function without conditioning any, free with their conscience. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] RUVOLO (GAL). Only today! D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Please, a little dignity. ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). It's the first time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I invite you to be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u73	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You want to ask for the secret vote, like in 2009? ZANDA (PD). Mr President, our constitutional system provides for the presence of senators for life, appointed by the President of the Republic. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Really? Bravo! ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). It's a matter of opportunity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've got Senator Bondi talking: let Senator Zanda speak! [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] ZANDA (PD). At the time of their appointment, senators for life are senators to all intents and participate in the Senate's work at all sessions. RUVOLO (GAL). We won't see them again! ZANDA (PD). I hope that the senators for life will continue to attend the Senate and I am very proud that they will be present at today's sitting. [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups.]] D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). We hope so too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I invite you to be silent: if anyone wants to speak, he can ask for the word and it will be given to him, but it is not possible to continue in this gazzarre.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u76	[[Senator De Petris points out that she wants to intervene.]] BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank those who have spoken on this subject, because it is not a small matter. However, I would like to remind the House as a whole that a few days ago we reminded the House of Giulio Andreotti. That day there was neither the President of the Senate, probably because he was busy, but after three months of death he chose that day to remember him, and there was none of the senators for life, except Senator Monti. Being the Senator for Life Mr Andreotti. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u77	I want to read Article 1 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Can I read it? Senators acquire the prerogatives of the office and all rights inherent in their duties, for the sole fact of election or appointment, from the time of proclamation if elected, or from the notice of appointment if appointed. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Read it all, ma'am. It also says they have to attend the sessions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's enough. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] RUVOLO (GAL). That's enough for you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk. [[Senator De Petris points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u80	URAS (Misto-SEL). This side of the hemicycle is not looked at. This is unacceptable! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would also like to thank you for calling this up, and precisely in honour of the function of Vice President, I would like to say that my comment is not on the generality of senators for life. They also perform various functions: Senator Monti plays a political role and honors his office by actively participating in the political life and the Senate; last night, greeting Senator Rubbia, I appreciated that he had participated in the discussion session of the law of stability, which, however you want to judge, is an important act of the country's life, and last night he was there; Senator Cattaneo often participates in the work of the Assembly. There are two exceptions, one of which is Senator Abbado, who did not even consider coming today, but I think he has problems, while I believe that those who came only today to participate in this humility did not honor his assignment, because Senator for Life is one every day of the year. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani.]] You know who I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u83	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, first of all, I must point out that the Secretaries of the House are well paid to report to you who is asking you to speak, because it is not possible that you do not always look here and I do not know what we have to do every time to draw your attention. I do not know if there is an allergy to the left, to deny Senator Mussolini compared to what he said in his speech earlier. I invite all the senators, at this difficult and complicated moment - I understand - to avoid as much as possible fall in style, which offend first and foremost those who make them. In fact, Mr President, as you mentioned and as President Zanda reminded us, at the time when the senators for life are appointed and settled within the Senate, they all have the prerogatives of all the other senators. I appeal because this procedure, which we have already known in the past in this House (among other things, it was always directed towards Senator Levi Montalcini, who came to the Chamber on time) and which was only for purely intimidating purposes. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, SCpI and M5S Groups]] It must cease immediately, because in this House it is not possible to tolerate any intimidation towards any senator who has been elected or appointed by the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, SCPI and M5S Groups. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u84	Just to give a complete picture, since President Gasparri has made names and distinctions, we know for a long time that Senator Abbado is seriously ill and cannot attend the sessions. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). That's right. Senator Gasparri said that. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). He said it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He sent a letter that we should all know about. This is to complete the discussion with the serious illness that prevents it. According to agreements between the Groups since yesterday's Conference of Leaders, the timing of the debate is harmonised in order to allow explanations of vote on all agendas to take place from 3.30 p.m. with direct television broadcasting and with votes around 5 p.m. From now on, then, until 3.30 p.m., less than three hours are available. During the general discussion, 23 senators spoke, four of whom will present at this stage of the debate the agendas presented. Some senators have already stated that they will deliver a written text, and they are authorized as of now. Finally, two other senators will intervene to illustrate their agenda. This is the painting. In order to respect the time of 3.30 p.m. for the beginning of the explanations of vote, I warn you that the agenda presenters, both those who are in attendance for the debate and those who will intervene afterwards, will have ten minutes at their disposal. All the rest of you take five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am uncomfortable in this House. The inconvenience comes from a debate that is spoiled by a political decision taken outside this House. It is the first time in republican history that a judgment of decadence or any judgment pertaining to people is taken by political decisions. I know that everything is against me; I know that everything is against the will to listen, because there is a prejudice caused by that political decision. Political decision that becomes even more serious for the violence on the consciences of the decision for the clear vote. I would draw President Zanda's attention to what we are about to do. I asked to speak not so much to defend the position of Senator Silvio Berlusconi, but to defend the Senate of the Republic. Mr President, we are committing a series of serious violations which respect Parliament's prerogatives. I would like to point out that Mr Stefano's report did not take account of the fundamental principles of our system. There is a violation of the rule of law caused by the violation of fundamental principles. The Constitutional Court has considered that the Election Council and the Chambers at this stage are courts. In addition, the Court of Cassation held, in a joint civil section, in three judgments of 2008 that there is exclusive jurisdiction. There is no ordinary administrative court with jurisdiction at this stage. Denying jurisdiction means denying Members any judicial seat to raise questions of constitutionality. If, by hypothesis, we were to accept this argument, it would mean distorting the system of our rule of law, because the Court of Cassation intervened with its function of nomotherapy and taught that this body is a judicial body. You can argue, but don't question it. It can be said, in a proper institutional relationship, that this is not a judicial body, but then the conflict of jurisdiction must be raised, indicating which court is competent, something that the majority report, which even fails to mention the judgments just mentioned, does not do. It does not even mention the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2009: the supreme body of regulation of the jurisdiction of our country has intervened and has established that the Junta of the elections is a judicial body. There is no room for a conflict between powers, but there is a conflict of jurisdiction. To deny it again means only one thing, Mr President: it means to have prejudice. But at the same time there is a danger. I wanted to discuss the elections in the Junta, but the advance, Mr President, that if it were to be said that the Junta is not a judicial body, I would have to ask you to replace me with that body. I know very well that I cannot resign, but I ask you to replace me, because I will never accept what I am asked to do, because of my history and the way in which jurisdiction is exercised in our country (even you would never agree to vote for or against because of membership of a Group): I must vote on the basis of the law, the principle of legality, which is being violated in this Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups]] What happened? Why do I say that the principle of legality is violated? Denying the principle of the court meant only one thing: not to consider the question of constitutionality manifestly unfounded, but it meant not to refer the matter back to the European Court of Justice, for which it became an obligation, as for any judge in any country of the European Union. Article 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union - you teach me - requires each judge not to interpret Community law (as President Stefano did). You should have stopped examining the matter. It is not possible to interpret Community law as it is not possible to assess the conflict between national and Community law. Every judge in any country of the Union must refer the matter back to the European Court of Justice, because it must guarantee the uniformity of the application of European law in our country and in all countries of the European Union. But we want to see how we acted in Junta. We didn't pose a problem that could have been settled. What is the power that the Junta has? The Severino law says: "deliberate within the meaning of Article 66 of the Constitution." What do you do under Article 66 of the Constitution? Do you rate the merit? Certainly we could have also argued (as strange case, since Berlusconi's proceedings always have a series of oddities) to assess under the lens of the fumus persecutionis who had sent to the Court of Cassation the false news of the prescription on August 1st and not on September 26th. We have not done so, Mr President; we have indicated that the limits of the deliberations of the Junta should consist of a significant control of the existence of the conditions of the decadence, in particular the applicability of the norm to the concrete case, taking into account the temporal limits of effectiveness, and the compliance of the norm with the constitutional principles. My colleague Lo Moro said earlier that we are not talking about the crime. Read the law of Severino, in whose article 13 it is said that the duration of incandidability is linked to the ancillary sanction of ban from public offices. The incandidability - I read - is due from the date of the passage in court of the judgment and takes effect for a period corresponding to twice the duration of the ancillary penalty of temporary prohibition from public offices. However, this duration, even in the absence of the ban, can not be less than six years. The period of incandidability has also increased by a third in cases where the crime was committed by abuse of powers or in violation of the duties related to the elective mandate. That means, Mr President, that we have to assess what the crime is, and so it is not true that the crime is not taken into account. Finally, the incandidability of rehabilitation can be eliminated. You teach me that rehabilitation is not an automatic effect and that depends on the judge's discretion in the conduct of the sentenced person. What a great constitutionalist has highlighted... I invite you to conclude. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). If it were just an act, Mr President, there would be an over-exposition of the judiciary on politics, which would be exacerbated by this further element. A number of amendments should therefore be made to both the Severino law and the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the agenda that I have tabled concludes with the request for a suspension of the examination of the document, because the Severino law is not yet applicable. You've been operating in criminal records, like me, for so many years, and you know very well... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you for the second time to conclude. I have to keep the time. I'm sorry. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am concluding, but I do not think there is a balance between three quarters of an hour for the presentation of the report and the time allowed for the presentation of an agenda which is the only way to challenge the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can take the time of your group's colleagues. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I ask you thirty seconds to just say that as long as the law is not applicable it cannot be put in a position to be applied at this stage, since the ancillary sanction is not yet determined, and you know better than I do that the sentences normally pass into court for the conviction and for the ancillary penalty. This is a limited case, and that is why we must wait for the final decision. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u86	I beg all senators to stay in time. I'm sorry, but I have to be strict. [[Comments by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]] Someone asked me for quota. I gave ample space earlier. Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the lead in hearing the legal experts, magistrates or former magistrates, who have explained to us every detail of the matter, and although Senator Caliendo, with the skill of those who know the subject, has put it in a simple and accessible way to everyone, he has achieved the strengthening of the idea that I had when I entered the Chamber: this is a trial, a determination, an evaluation, a decision of an eminently political nature. It would suffice to quote the fact, just explained by Senator Caliendo, that ours is a deliberating body and every resolution should presuppose a complete assessment of the circumstances. I would remind myself that the Court of Cassation gave us merely the operative part of the judgment and not all the ancillary acts to which the members of the Junta which dealt with the Berlusconi case could and should have been accessed. Having said that, since there is political action, I would point out that every action will have a political reaction. The vestals that are scandalized in a single sense, those who say that we are intemperant, we are extremists, we do not have the taste of respect for legality, they do it only and exclusively with a bit of toughness and short memory, which are among other things the requirements of politicians, of policemen, of those who do not look at politics as a value reference but as an instrument to be able to gain a contingent advantage. The advantage is that to which Senator Giovanardi mentioned just now: not to keep away from politics and candidacy Silvio Berlusconi only for two years, but to prolong this time through the retroactive application of the Severino law from two to six years. So, get rid of the main political antagonist, of the one who defeated the left for twenty years, for a much longer period of time than the judiciary predicted by inflicting the ban for two years from public offices. I want to make a simple consideration, since the time available to me is limited. Do you think that a man like Nelson Mandela, a woman like Timoshenko, or anyone who has been convicted in the course of his political struggle, has been wiped out by themselves from the political history of his country? You are deluded, because Berlusconi belongs to the political history of this country and its figure and the political history it represented is not a criminal novel or an appendage novel to which you want to reduce the last twenty years of the history of the center-right in Italy. That is the political sense of what is being discussed in this House today. I'm not Tiresia, and I can't do vaticini. Much, if not all those who accuse lightly and who want to marginalize the opposition leader in Italy are characters destined for the glory of misery. Like it or not, Silvio Berlusconi's political history belongs not to the chronicle, but to the political history of this nation. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u89	Mr President, we must remember that today we are in this House because Article 51 of the Constitution puts the choice of criteria which identify the most worthy of the citizens of this country to be part of an elected Assembly. When we vote on this matter today, we must always bear that in mind. Article 54 of the Constitution then specifies what the criteria and requirements must be for those who are to hold public office. Article 54 of the Constitution says: The citizens to whom public functions are entrusted have the duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor. The legislator, on the basis of Article 51 and Article 54, in the last parliamentary term approved a rule that citizens had long been waiting for: a rule, called anti-corruption, which provided that citizens convicted of certain serious crimes could not be candidates and, if elected, should lapse. We're talking about this. Today in this Chamber we have the process started many years ago with the judgments of first instance of the Milan court, then of the court of appeal and then, finally, this summer of the Cassation: all univocal sentences that have condemned the citizen Berlusconi to a serious final penalty, for which the Severino law provided for incandidability or decadence, if already elected. We are talking about this and we are sticking to it. Everything else, ladies and gentlemen, does not honour this country. I strongly invite you to think about this at the time of the vote, because at this moment we are being watched by 60 million Italians, our employers, who want to know if all the citizens of this country are equal before the law, or if there is someone who is not and who is above it. [[Comments of Senator Falanga]] But there are not only the citizens of this country, because out there there is the world that is watching us, bewildered by this affair, by how a national leader, struck by a very heavy condemnation, still holds an elective office and has not felt the duty, this yes, moral and conscience, to resign, without dragging our country into this shameful spectacle. We will only do one thing this afternoon: our duty. That's all. We will apply the law, we will apply the rules of this country to ensure that this branch of Parliament is made up of honourable people, because those who have reported final sentences of that kind have lost honour. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u90	Senator Falanga is a member of the House, who will also present the G9 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u91	Mr President, the resolution we are about to take today in this House is certainly exceptional and of a unique and immeasurable nature in its consequences. If it does not profoundly interpret everyone's conscience in the exercise of the free parliamentary mandate, presided over by the guarantee of Article 67 of the Constitution, beyond and before all party political fidelity, the court of history, which is more demanding and certainly less fallible than any human justice, exposed to the error and misrepresentation of the facts, even if they were formally covered by the power to judge a final sentence, will condemn us - this time yes, indeed, in an unappellable way - because it will be a very serious mistake that is being committed in this House today. You must note that on the left side of this House the senators have turned away, as if to mean their disinterest in the issue we are dealing with today. It has been said by a Senate body that the vote on the decadence of Senator Silvio Berlusconi should have been expressed in a clear way, but in violation of the clear text of our Rules of Procedure. Already here lies the sign of embarrassment, the violation of the rules, the bending of them to a contingent application, because a decision of decadence would obviously make the logic of belonging to faction prevail over that of the sacredness of the individual conscience, which belongs to each of us wherever those who sit in this Assembly have then chosen to place themselves. Well, we still have time to avoid this perversion of the law, this perversion of the constitutional guarantees of freedom of vote, this perversion of the very dignity of the parliamentary function. But there's more. It was considered that the legislative text on the basis of which to pronounce the revocation of a member of our assembly from the function to which the sovereign will of the elector legitimately called him could have a retroactive application, in spite of the clear and opposite dictated by Article 25, second paragraph, of the Constitution, which prevents instead of achieving this effect to any rule involving sanctions for facts committed before its entry into force. The precautionary principle should have made us feel obliged to ask the organ naturally entitled to loose any perplexity, in one sense or another, namely, as we all know, the Consulta. Senator Caliendo has already spoken abundantly about this. It was also argued, however, that there was not, in fact, the possibility of investing in this problem the supreme judge of constitutional legitimacy, and this is because neither the competent Parliamentary Commission, the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, nor this sovereign Assembly, which, while exercising jurisdiction in this matter, exercise an objectively judicial function by peaceful jurisprudence, would be third parties and therefore judges on a case-by-case basis. Yet a way, though narrow, but sure, is there not to commit a ruin of the law and I beg you therefore - but who do I beg? They're gone, there's no way to feed it. What we are called upon to render is a resolution of justice, an incident on fundamental political rights and the composition of the body to which we belong, in which no other power of the State can replace us or relieve us of the responsibilities that touch us. Here is the basically illustrative item on the G9 agenda that I have tabled. The legislative decree of 31 December 2012, n. 235, improperly defined Severino law, which we must apply, on the point it is very clear, having been amended the original wording: "the House of belonging declares a member of its deceased" so much that in the approved text we read that the same "deliberate" the decadence. If it had been a simple act, then it would have been possible to provide for a clear vow, in a moment, as if to get rid of a trivial fulfillment due. But this is not the case, because the Senate, not having to confine itself to taking note, but to deliberate the decadence, is required to examine its own disputes and all procedural acts, which have never been transmitted by the judicial office, claiming for our part a simple taking of action. The Court of Cassation sent us two excerpts from the ruling and we, on the basis of an excerpt from the judgment, should today, without going into the substance, declare the forfeiture of one of our members. The Severino law says we have to deliberate. Who wanted the amendment to the original text of the declaration of decadence was the highly esteemed - also by the senators of the 5 Star Movement - Mr Catralà. Why did Mr Catralà change the final wording of the text? Why did it pass from the declaration of forfeiture to the resolution of forfeiture? What does it mean to deliberate? Deliberating presupposes a process of cognition. This House, this Senate, has had no document to assess whether the judgments of the Milan Court of Appeal, with regard to the ancillary sanction, and of the Court of Cassation, with regard to the conviction, have been made in correct application of the laws of our country. Well, our Senate becomes an organ emptied of its power. For these reasons I believe that you, Mr President, but we must all raise the conflict of attribution. You could say superficially, so, rather banally: But how? Do we raise a conflict of attribution to a legal provision that we have approved? Well yes, study, read the Constitutional Court's judgments, there are constitutional precedents on this matter: when a rule violates the right and prerogatives of a House and a power of our state organization, a conflict of attribution can be raised. The G9 agenda calls for the Senate to raise this conflict. You see, taking time does not mean favoring any of us; waiting for the decisions of the Council also on the point of the conflict that I raised, or that at least I ask is not to waste time: it means waiting to avoid a precedent that will remain in the history of our country, to prevent the judicial power from having, over our power, an attitude of superiority, placing us in a condition of supina obedience. I, because even the individual senator, as a fraction of a power, is entitled, according to previous case-law of the same Court, to raise the conflict alone, I will do so and ask my colleagues to do so, because we on our part will never - I say never - accept to transform this power of the State into a power subject to the decisions and determinations of the judiciary! Gentlemen, you still have the chance to raise your head rather than go to the buvette and get your coffee, you still have the opportunity to give back the honour to this House that you are mortifying today, canceling it totally! Certainly Berlusconi is a leader only because he is loved by millions of Italians and millions of Italians identify him as the bearer of their political culture, their ideal positions. This is the only reason why a political opponent wants to be demolished: because he is loved by Italians. But you won't need this game of yours. Berlusconi will continue to be loved, by me, by my colleagues who have remained in Forza Italia and by millions and millions of Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u92	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u93	Mr President, following the recommendations of the Group of the Party of European Socialists not to speak in this Chamber at this stage, I asked to speak only in order to ask for my written speech, which deals with technical and legal issues, to be annexed to the shorthand report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u94	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u95	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u96	Mr President, I would like to address Mr Buemi: dear Buemi, things are much worse than we could have expected. We are talking to an empty Chamber, because the Groups, which have already decided politically to expel from the Senate a man who for twenty years has represented and still represents an important part of Italian political life, are not even listening to the speeches of colleagues. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Yours too! GIOVANARDI (NCD). There's a little difference. First of all, our benches are crowded. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). But you're alone! GIOVANARDI (NCD). But then the fact that the Groups that have decided to take responsibility for condemning a person leave empty the seats in the Senate and do not even listen to those who speak his defence is a bleak spectacle and it is the demonstration, Senator Buemi, of what we have always thought: it is not that justice is being administered here, here is being carried out a vicious political act, a Maramaldesco from the political point of view that has illustrious precedents. I always thought that if Mussolini's Second World War had finally been executed and not hung by his feet, as happened in the vileness of that terrible scene, we would probably not have had so many nostalgic in the post-war period of that experience. I always thought about what would happen if Craxi had been brought to Italy to cure himself, while the various Di Pietro laughed at him, saying that his was not a disease. He who died as he died and then gave him state funerals and today the leaders of the left say that he was a great character, but he did that end. I've always thought of Andreotti, whose memorial you, President, were absent. Andreotti who all point out, for example, a Job, who patiently subjected himself to all the trials, including that for the murder of Pecorelli, and was acquitted, but still today he is mascariato because he is not even celebrated in the Senate as he should. A man who has been the President of the Council seven times and has been for 68 years in Parliament, is also the victim of justice even though he has patiently submitted to that Calvary. I think of Arnaldo Forlani, who at 9.30 p.m., at dinner with me, took his stand because he was sentenced to social services. So I could make the story of an Italian Republic in which the leaders of the center-right, for one reason or another, were struck by justice and I wrote a book, "Stories of extraordinary injustice," which collects dozens of cases (and I could talk about Gava, put in jail, or Misasi) and shows the attempt to transform the Italian political history of center-right into a criminal history. Today we are witnessing yet another episode, as I said, of overlapping the judiciary in order to strike and mascary Berlusconi for moral unworthyness, so with a political judgment that I still remember why we must understand what we are doing. We are in fact talking about a crime that may have been committed ten years ago, for which he has been repeatedly acquitted in cassation. I repeat: of the history of Agrama, Berlusconi and Mediaset rights twice the Court of Cassation wrote that it was Agrama the real intermediary and that there is no proof that Berlusconi has pocketed a euro from those events, until Dr. Esposito arrived to say the reverse in the famous working section. It's a sad judicial affair. I am also interested in a little more humble people and the other day I said that there is something to be yelled at by the anger about the story of those two famous parents of Modena who took away four underage children fifteen years ago. They were acquitted twice in the Court of Appeal and in August he died of a heart attack, after he had been acquitted for the second time on appeal in Bologna, while she lives in France with the fifth child who is ten years old, if not they took that away too. Well, again the prosecutor challenged the judgment before the Court of Cassation and so, after fifteen years, the Italian justice, so diligent with Berlusconi so much that between first instance, appeal and cassation have passed a few months, after fifteen years it is not yet able to tell whether they are guilty or innocent, after two acquittals. Here we have a case in which for the same thing there were two acquittals and the third sentence is applied a law that came into force in January 2013, that is seven months ago, and a leader is thrown out of Parliament, under these conditions, in a desolately empty Chamber. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Giovanardi. GIOVANARDI (NCD). Yes, Mr President, but I would point out that this is not a good page for the Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u97	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that there are so few of you who listen. In this House, however, despite absences, there is still an air full of strong and unfortunately strongly opposed feelings: on the one hand, hostility, aversion and even contempt and, on the other hand, disbelief, even despair, of those who, like me, fail to understand how today, in this House, what should be a temple of wisdom and which, on the other hand, is all too often debased - even because of us - can really happen what is a real crime. It is a political crime, because it has refused to listen to legitimate and necessary requests, received not only by Forza Italia (from the former People of Freedom), but also by authoritative lawyers, who affirmed and still affirm the need to refer to the Constitutional Court the Severino legislative decree in the part that concerns retroactivity, which makes it in fact an outlawed law. It is a political crime, because it is testified by a preliminary attitude, which ill-hidden, and has always concealed, the design that has been conceived over the last few years, that is to exclude the leader of the centre-right from Parliament, to deprive him of his freedom and his political rights, even by disposing of his property, as happened with the sentence De Benedetti. The only aim, therefore, is to eliminate President Berlusconi, whose only real fault, let me say, is not the one mentioned in the judgment of the Supreme Court (unfair judgment, and I am convinced that it will soon be overturned). The only real fault of President Berlusconi, whom you charge him, that you do not forgive him and you will never forgive him, is to have prevented you for twenty years from ruling the country; rather, let me tell you, to get your hands on the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It is a political crime, because this vote hypocritically justifies itself behind the password for which the law is the same for all (I have heard it again in some speeches just now). No, gentlemen, that's the real question. The law is not at all the same for everyone. The guarantees in this country are not the same for everyone, dear President, and not even the regulations are the same for everyone. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It is a political crime, because this is not only a squalid, terrible attack on a man, but it is a real attack on the democracy of the country, in its most sacred and inviolate foundations. It is a democracy now halved in a country that suffers. In this regard, dear friends of the New Right Centre (and I am sorry that you have only two left in the Chamber at the moment), you cannot speak of the good of the country in the face of an attack on democracy. You can't say you're doing the good of the country by holding hands with those who commit the political murder of our leader today, that you say you're also your leader! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Thanks to him we are all here to represent - you too - his votes, not ours! Finally, this is a crime not only political but in the broadest sense of the term, because it is an act dictated exclusively by hatred. A hatred fueled by an unjustified thirst for justiceism; a hatred that if it is not stopped will become dangerous for all of us and for all of our children: even yours. Our country, today more than ever, does not need hatred, it needs conscience, responsibility, that responsibility that must not be waved to use and consumption. I shall end, Mr President, by asking this House to put aside all prejudice, remembering that prejudices are bad advisers: they make it impossible to see reality with clear eyes and almost always lead to the wrong path. I ask this House to reflect, to avoid this other stain in Italian history, of which we are proud for many reasons, but unfortunately it is already stained indeliblely, let us remember, by facts of which we have regretted bitterly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u99	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u100	Mr President, allow me to turn over the full text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting and to make some introductory remarks.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u101	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u102	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in the last parliamentary term the Socialists were not present in Parliament. If there had been, if there had been, we would probably not have voted on the Severino law. But now the law is law and you can only apply it. Even the legitimate doubts about the constitutionality of some of its rules or their interpretation are late, even if we share them. A parliamentary group does not need to ask for authentic interpretations from the Constitutional Court, for the truth: it can and must, if anything, invest in the matter of the Chambers, especially if it claims the primacy of the legislative power over the jurisdiction. We Socialists, among other things, have already proposed an amendment to the Severino law in this parliamentary term. This road, which has not been taken, would have called us all to assume responsibility for the general question of the possible interference of jurisdiction on the candidacy of citizens to public office. Now we are in a painful condition of having to discuss a single case and even - if I may say so - a singular case. In fact, we do not miss the political and institutional weight of the arguments brought by our colleagues in Forza Italia nor has we missed during this twenty years the particular attention with which many prosecutors have investigated the professional and private life of Silvio Berlusconi, never investigated instead before his descent into the field. We are also aware of the great effectiveness of the judicial media circus that we were the first victims of with the contribution of Mediaset TV. Also for this reason we find it completely improper to approach this case to that of Bettino Craxi, who was condemned for having illegally financed his party (like all others, among other things) and who had, as a statesman what was, sufficient sense of responsibility to avoid linking his bitter personal affair to an institutional crisis such as that which has been threatened in recent days. The attack on the Head of State is in fact not only unqualifiable, but injustifiable especially if we consider the distance existing between the objective judicial condition of Silvio Berlusconi - founded or not are the procedures that have concerned him - and the conditions necessary for an act of clemency, punctually indicated by President Napolitano since 13 August. Finally, as far as the political aspect of this matter is concerned, let us have two comments. The first is the conflict that undoubtedly exists between politics and jurisdiction to overcome which in these twenty years would have served more structural reforms than ad personam laws. The second concerns the suffering that hit the right centre, to which we look with due respect, but not given since August 1st, but at least since two years before the crisis of the leadership was manifested that led to the closure with a technical government a legislature that had opened with a political government strongly legitimized by the electoral success of 2008. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we had proposed, in the face of multiple and repeated doubts raised by interpretations of the Severino law, to limit ourselves to applying the proven legislation of prohibition from public offices, since the judgment is now in the final confirmation phase, also for the interdictive part. So it was not thought to be done. We accept the Junta's decision, while highlighting the risk of sanctioning our decision later by the European Court of Human Rights. In conclusion, Mr President, I call on my colleagues and this House to have a greater sense of responsibility in respect of the application of the rules, which cannot be claimed only when our direct interests are at stake, but always whatever are the protagonists of the events we are dealing with. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and the Repetti and Bernini senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u103	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u104	Mr President, first of all, I would like to be able to give the full text of my speech so that it is annexed to the documents and to make a few brief comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u105	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u106	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you. On this sad day for Italy I have great bitterness in my heart, but it cannot reach that of some of my colleagues in the Chamber who belong to the Forza Italia Group and that of the great man and politician Sandro Bondi. Having said that, it is right what some colleagues from the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party are doing, who want to delete Article 67 of the Constitution, that is, that article that gives the parliamentarians the opportunity to represent the Nation without a mandate. That is why there has been a whole battle to ensure that in this House the thesis of the clear and non-secret vote is carried out, so that some Members of this House are drawn for the jacket, identified and put to shame by the Italian citizens who thought differently from them. As a result, a system of non-democratic control has been put in place with the clear vote, but it could be defined in other ways. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti, we will have a better chance of appreciating what you wrote in the text you asked to attach to the documents. I won't give you a minute more. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Let me conclude, Mr President, by making another very small reflection, of only thirty seconds. I respect those who think differently from me, but it is difficult and incomprehensible for me to justify some parliamentarians - I say not all - that in a time of difficulty, in which there was a need to support democracy, legality and respect for men who gave lust to Italy, have abandoned certain political characters and today pretend not to understand and not to hear. They were in fact the first to condemn Berlusconi with silence and this is much more serious than what some men who belong to the Italian left are doing. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u107	Senator D'Ascola, who will present the G2 agenda during his speech, is a member of the Committee. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u108	Mr President, the political problem that I would like to bring to the attention of this House is mainly the identification of the actual existence of a rule which would justify the retroactive application of Legislative Decree No 235 of 2012. We all know that there is a well-known decision of the Council of State of February 2013 that would legitimize the assertion that this legislative decree would apply also with reference to previous events compared to the date of entry into force of the law. The truth is, however, that this judgment does not specify and does not in any way argue the legal reasons and, above all, the rule that would justify the retroactive application of the so-called Severino decree. To tell the truth, some commentators who are part of this interpretation evoke Articles 3 and 16 of the same decree, which, to be honest, in some of their parts refer to a retroactive application. I will now briefly refer to these provisions so that the debate does not have to deal with general, general and statements of conjecture or bulging, but finally speaks of the rules. Article 3 refers to the incandidability that has occurred or occurred during the parliamentary term and therefore does not make any reference to a retroactive application of the legislative decree, but only to a temporal relationship between the moment of assumption of the parliamentary mandate and the date of entry into force of the law, where we all know that irretroactivity is linked to a date of commission of the fact and to an application of the norm after the committee of the fact itself. Article 16 states that plea judgments are subject to this legislative decree, provided that they have been given after its date of entry into force. Hence the conclusion, even this lacks any possible criticism, according to which the judgments of plea before the entry into force of this decree, are not subject to the provisions contained in the decree itself. Also this provision, as everyone can understand, being dictated with exclusive reference to the judgments of plea, and being on the contrary the sentence of sentence pronounced against Senator Berlusconi a judgment pronounced in ordinary judgment, does not justify the retroactive application of the provision in comment. We therefore have one aspect that we could define in advance in the discussion of the legal question, the only serious issue among so many words that do not have any serious significance in this context, which, both on the side of Article 3 and on the side of Article 16, are without any reference to retroactive application. So, before reaching such a dramatic conclusion, such as the one which has been repeatedly invoked in this House, such as the exclusion of a senator on the basis of an alleged retroactive mechanism that no one - I stress this forcefully - has ever thought to explain in concrete terms what it might consist of, would it be appropriate for this debate to be interested for the first time in the only really interesting thing: in short, what is the provision that justifies in the judgment of the Council of State the peremptory assertion that this rule would apply to previous events? I repeat: the rules in some way invoked in Articles 3 and 16, as we have seen, but as a serious debate could check in the context of even time-limited reflection, they do not allow this conclusion to be reached. Among other things, I would like to explain on the G2 agenda the obvious ratio of that regime, however non-retroactive, limited to plea judgments: there is a clear need to warn those who intend to practice that rite of the fact that with an anti-genius rite - therefore with a rite that does not involve the establishment of any liability, which, among other things, implies the request of a party - some expose themselves, together with the other consequences, also to the not negligible consequence of an incandidability deriving from a judgment that does not establish at the point of responsibility. So, I think this debate is really original, in the sense that it is certainly a starting point, namely the retroactive application of the so-called Severino legislative decree, without anyone ever seriously saying anything about it. When one should rhetorically ask: but if Article 16 does not apply (that - I repeat - limited to plea judgments) what other rule should be applied, the answer would be quite clear in its simplicity: the principles of general and common order should be applied, according to which the parameter of application of the law over time and the fact subject to investigation and the precedence or posteriority of the unfavorable law to the fact are determined on the basis of the calendar (i.e. entirely orthodox criteria). In this respect, if the provision were to be incorporated into the criminal system, Article 25 paragraph of the Constitution would prevail, but if it were not inserted anywhere, Article 11 of the provisions in advance of the Civil Code, which states that any law, regardless of whether it belongs to a branch of the legal order, can only provide for the future and cannot consist of retroactive applications. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is to understand how the mechanism of irretroactivity should function in the specific case. This is not an academic problem, but a concrete one. Following the ruling of the Council of State here we would have a rule that does not belong to any branch of the legal order. The statement is astonishing in its banality because it is clear that, if the legislator does not consider to qualify the norm with regard to the branch of belonging to a legal order, it would still be the task of the interpreter to understand not only where to insert that norm, but above all to what regulatory regulation to have to impose it. In fact, the problem of including a rule within a branch of the order is also functional to understand what its legal treatment should be. Among other things, we would be very seriously mistaken on this point because, with regard to the qualification of the areas covered by the legal rules, for example, European jurisprudence - and I am talking about the most well-known judgment, the one relating to Punta Perotti - said that, if the national legislator had not exactly identified the nature of a particular measure in some way limiting rights, it would still be up to the interpreter to attribute a clear belonging to it on the basis of substantive criteria, even in contrast to what the national legislator had laid down. So - and here I conclude - if we have a measure, which is extinguished only by rehabilitation (which is an extinct cause of the crime, and therefore clearly belonging to criminal law), which results in a criminal sentence for a criminal offence and for a closed number of offences, then we clearly have a number of circumstantial elements (even four) that in a way absolutely agree lay down for the criminalistic nature of this sanction. This statement is based on the considerations that identify in the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Constitution a rule that even places an umbrella of constitutional protection in favour of the principle here in concrete evocable of irretroactivity of restrictive provisions of a right and therefore in itself punitive. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u109	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the withdrawal of Senator Silvio Berlusconi on the basis of what is called the Severino Act. However, as far as I can see in this House, I have the impression that we are witnessing a modern reproposing of the Catilina Conspiracy of Sallustio: as told in the work, in this House today we are trying to eliminate, through judicial means and ad hoc interpretations of the law, a political opponent who has not been able to defeat in the ballot box. In fact, that is precisely the purpose of certain political forces. All kinds of accusations and treatment of the worst kind have been made; I will not be here to enter into the legal substance of the decision because other colleagues will do so. I will not list the number of accusations, the way in which this persecution took place, or the media process under President Berlusconi. I am interested in the political sphere, because it cannot be denied that it has influenced the conception of politics, the issues and the agenda of the political debate of this country more than anyone else in the last twenty years, and this has made it invisible to some by starting a systematic aggression against it. The persecution carried out against Silvio Berlusconi from several parts with a link between political and judicial plan has resulted in a real confusion and overlapping of roles: in fact, we had political sentences pronounced within judicial circles and judicial decisions (among other things wrong) taken by political bodies. We have witnessed a more evident contra personam procedure than ever before, carried out by the same political forces who complained about behavior similar to their opponent. That is why we can only speak of a pure, unprecedented outrage against Silvio Berlusconi: the interpretation given to the Severino law, the decision to apply it retroactively and the way in which it was decided to vote in this House are only the last obvious demonstration of this systematic action. But how can we fail to think of the repeated demands made in the last month by a specific political party that has tried on several occasions to anticipate the vow, anxious and eager in front of the sacrificial victim? How would you define all this if not an unworthy act, a shameful attack not only on Berlusconi a politician, but especially on Berlusconi a man? In fact, just as the division of legal and political plans has not been taken into account, the personal sphere has not been differentiated from the public sphere in its harassment. Evidently everything is permissible when the ultimate aim is to politically liquidate an arduous opponent. There is no practice or regulation to be followed in this situation. We had proof of this yesterday, when a law of stability was voted in haste with a maxi amendment tabled at the last minute, whose negative effects will affect the coming years, with worrying consequences for the citizens, the productive world, the future of our country. I begin by saying that today, however, not only the rights of a man, a politician, a charismatic leader are being trampled on; not only are we trying to put an end to his political activity, but, even more serious, the right of millions of Italian citizens to be represented is being violated, the will freely and knowingly expressed by voters, whose vote is considered superfluous, useless, without any legal value compared to that expressed by others. For all this I can only declare totally opposed to the shameful decision expressed by the Junta. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u111	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many feelings that motivate me to take the floor. I am in the first parliamentary term in Parliament and in recent months I have learned that the most distinctive element of the parliamentarians' function is to be, both when it presents legislative initiatives and at the time of the vote, a legislator: that is, someone who actively participates in the process of forming laws in our country. Even more so, for this reason, referring to the application of the Severino law to President Berlusconi, I do not understand how it is possible to support in this House the principle of retroactivity of a law. Colleagues, in recent weeks I have heard opinions of all kinds, of a political, legal and even regulatory nature: the latter on the justification for a shameful change of Senate Rules made in haste and fury and, in this case, ad personam. My idea of the legal and regulatory aspects of the matter we are debating is quite clear and does not deserve further consideration. On the other hand, I would like to focus on a purely political point of view. Twenty years ago, with the famous descent of President Berlusconi, political life had a shock that before then, in the swamp of the end of the First Republic and Tangentopoli, seemed impossible. Berlusconi was first of all a great entrepreneur, a real man of doing that, by pulling up his sleeves, he built an extraordinary entrepreneurial reality giving work to tens and tens of thousands of Italians and pouring taxes into the Italian tax offices like no one before him. This great entrepreneurial and managerial experience has been put at the service of a country then tired, linked to old political patterns and frightened by a deep social crisis. Let us all remember what happened in that 1994: in January there was the announcement and in April the great victory in the elections. Since then, President Berlusconi has been head of the Government, in total, for ten years. They have been tormented years: we think of an international context as difficult as the one followed by 11 September 2001 and the sharpening of the great world economic crisis after 2008. Could it have been done better and more? Who knows? This is the answer, but the contingency was many and difficult. The answer, in my opinion, is that we could certainly have done better: in life all of us could have done better so many things. Yet much good has been done in the years of the Berlusconi Governments. I am thinking, in a nutshell, of epochal measures such as the reforms of school and university, the interventions in the area of urban security and the plans of the great works that have unlocked our country, not to forget the great results in the fight against the mafia (here yes, great results). But I also think of the great international dimension that, thanks to the authority of the Berlusconi Governments, Italy has been able to live: we remember on all the summit of Practice of the Sea, the relations of authoritative alliance both with the United States and with Russia; we remember the great success that Berlusconi has brought back to Europe and, above all, as he has been able to defend Italy in the interest of the Italians. President Berlusconi's story is a story about which we all certainly have our own opinions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. ZIZA (FI-PdL XVII). You think about the things he did or didn't do, acting as a man of government and as a political leader. Here, opinions must be respected, but also a man with a history such as that of President Berlusconi must be respected. I find it deeply humiliating that such an important story can be deduced by a vote deriving from two abnormities (I do not hesitate to define them like this): I am talking again about the retroactivity of the Severino law and also about how one can go forward in Italy with the principle of "it could not fail to know" to justify the condemnation against it. I shall start with the conclusions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, don't start to finish. ZIZA (FI-PdL XVII). Unfortunately, even the result, which seems obvious, of this vote can only certify what remains the political normality of Italy, an normality that consists not in the presence of Berlusconi on the institutional and political scene (as many of his opponents claim), but in the fact that in twenty years it has not been possible to overthrow Berlusconi electorally and attempts to do so by judicial means. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u115	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, a message has arrived on our telephones warning us that the sitting of the Parliamentary Committee for the Monitoring of Radio Services is under way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's already been suspended. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I just wanted to warn you about this, because we are here now. Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you for your cooperation. We were already informed. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are witnessing, logically, should not even have been held. Before judicial, President Berlusconi's defeat was political and he should have recognized it first. The promises with which he had managed to seduce Italians in 1994 proved to be illusory. The years of Berlusconian hegemony will be remembered as those in which one has witnessed a decline that has few precedents in national history. Such events occur only after a war or natural disaster. Not work and wealth, but widespread poverty and unemployment; no less taxes for all, but increasingly pervasive taxation; not the fifth economic power, but a peripheral and deindustrialized country: this is the legacy of the Berlusconian dream. In any other Western country, a man of state responsible for such a breakdown would long have withdrawn from public life. Not in Italy, where he denounces a judicial persecution against his person and an attack on representative democracy, as if the consistency of a party and an electoral coalition were guaranteed by the traumatic virtues of a single man. That is not the case, of course. As a Venetian I know how ramified and deep the roots of the center-right are. It will shortly find a new leader capable of interpreting the interests of its electoral base and, hopefully, also the general interests. The vote in favour of the decline of Berlusconi therefore has no persecutory character towards Italians who are legitimately recognized in the center right. It presents itself as necessary and late. At a time of radical distrust of the institutions, the principle must apply that the law is the same for all. Berlusconi was finally condemned: the law that provides for his forfeiture, and which he himself helped to approve, must therefore be applied. Any other decision would damage the already poor confidence of citizens in democratic institutions. Any other decision would harm the interests of Italians, even those who vote on the right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Marcello Veneziani on today's newspaper writes: The story will rest like a sparrow today on Parliament and on our country. I don't know if the bird will be the scatterer or the vulture, but I know it will be a raptor. And this undoubtedly motivates even more my intervention, which starts from the necessity, which I feel, of a duty that becomes disruptive and moral to explain what is happening, according to my interpretation, and to try to break that curtain of smoke that has been erected around Silvio Berlusconi for too long. A curtain of smoke, constructed with bold legal arguments as well as bold, exposed today - we have heard it - once again with punctual, precise words, with great sharpness, but still words behind and within which are hidden humiliating mystifications, false truths, conveniences without restraint, low blows inflicted not only on men, but on democracy from beautiful souls without beauty, in the name of a supposed moral and political superiority that has become now hateful and annoying. Beautiful souls that with all evidence have remained, and for some time, orphans of the shoulders of the giant who should have relegated them to a real, clear, far-sighted overall vision. It wasn't like that. It is our duty to do so, not to turn our heads on the other side and not to sit in the comfortable and warm belly of demagogy in order to escape the most difficult battle: not to surrender, in short, to the barbarity to which we condemned democracy. The final assault of the Lanzichenecchi on the leader of the right centre is irresponsible and unscrupulous, because it does not hesitate to undermine the foundations of our rule of law. There is a whole political part here, sad to say, which today is trying to turn the House into a shooting range where a firing squad must achieve the goal of serving the head of the political opponent par excellence at the beginning of a congress: an extreme act by which one obviously tries to compensate for its weaknesses and mask internal divisions with the rite of a sacrifice made on the altar of power for power. The effects of this violence to the rules, of this illiberal, ethically incorrect politically inadequate and hostile road do not honour democracy. Yet, all this has become the mirror of the times, a sign of a chronic political fragility that fails to recover a minimum space for a calm confrontation, but nourishes of instrumental reasons to beat with alternative means to the ballot box what is considered the enemy, not the opponent, while the Italians are thrown into the quicksand of a recession that would deserve much more attention, much more responsibility, much more respect. [[The microphone light starts to flash.]] That is why in my words there is all the bitterness of a missed opportunity for this Parliament, where an intermittent light marks the inevitability of the times, indicating to me that after three minutes I must finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u118	Actually, it's been five.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u119	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask you to attach the text of my speech. However, allow me to represent you that I am despondent, because these are important moments for democracy! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u120	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, the Presidency took note of her request and authorised her to attach the text of her speech to the Reports of today's sitting. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u121	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). It is a problem for me, for the House and - I imagine - for the Presidency as well. I regret that very much. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, your written speech will certainly be appreciated. Please move on and finish as soon as possible. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Nobody can turn their heads on the other side, pretending that there is not only Berlusconi's decadence as a senator at stake, but respect for democratic rules. It is absolutely unacceptable that the leader of the centre-right should be removed from Parliament on the basis of a retroactive application of the Severino law: the application is contested by lawyers who are politically distant from my own and clearly contrary to the principles of the Italian Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. Yet it has been pretended not to see that in the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity the obligation of confidentiality has been violated and there has been a serious and inappropriate advance even of the results of the final vote by leading figures of the major party allied with the People of Freedom. With humility, but also with tenacity and determination, we will continue to fight in this path. Our democracy today is raped to pursue a plan that has been pervicaciously carried out since 1994, with that famous warranty notice notified by means of a "Corsera". The good of the country is miserably translated into a bad copy of the Bastille grip, where the Robespierre on duty arrogantly arrogant the right of the thumb towards. I shall end, Mr President, by recalling a passage by Giampaolo Pansa, who, with regard to his latest book, "Sex," blood and money. A counterhistory of Italy from 1946 to the present day, says that from the left they reproach him for having written a book on the right. "The label doesn't scare me," says Pansa. He states: "In fact, I consider it a medal if by right we mean the opposite of a cultural left marble and liar who for years has been dealing with a reading of Italian history polluted by the party taken. And he continues to sell it with the pride of those who defend themselves by clinging to the complex of the best ones. Those, Mr President, the best, who today would like to give the history of our Republic the page of shame. Our path, Mr President, is different, because our history is different and because our heritage is different, which is made up of respect for the Constitution, coherence towards voters and loyalty to our leader. They do not know those who rush to the path that will take Berlusconi out of this House that a leader does not need chairs: he needs Italy. And most of Italy, the moderate and laborious one, is still here, next to him. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Augello]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u122	Senator Augello, who will also present the G1 agenda in his speech, is a member of the House. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u123	Mr President, I will do much more: in accordance with the time we travel across the country, we will try to be very productive by presenting the agenda, by making the planned speech and also by making a point of order, all within the ten minutes set. I would like to start with the point of order, because it is very simple, Mr President. I refer to Article 19 (4) which provides for the specific powers of the Council of Parliament's immunity in the field of verification of admission certificates. On the basis of this article, at the end of this day's work, should the argument favorable to the decadence of Senator Berlusconi prevail, the Junta will meet to verify the entry into Parliament of another colleague. I would remind you that - as already stated in the Junta - for a distortion of the law, of which President Stefano obviously pays the price in the formulation of his report, the latter concludes with the following sentence: The Board decides by majority to propose to the Assembly of the Senate - unexpected any other instance - to deliberate the non-validation of the election of Senator Silvio Berlusconi, pursuant to article 3, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 235 of 31 December 2012. The quote is correct, but it establishes an absolute improper coincidence between the resolution of non-validation and the decadence of a senator. This problem - I repeat - had already been placed in Junta. I would ask you to record it, but it remains with the acts that we have also raised in this House. I remind myself and the Assembly that in the 16th legislature, for example, Spinello, Drago, Mancuso and Vedani had not been validated, but for this reason they have not fallen; in the 15th legislature all six senators elected in the Foreign Circumscription were in the same situation: they were not validated, but did not lapse. It's a mess of this law, one of many. I would stress this as a point of order and commend it to you. As for the G1 agenda, however, I will not extend because, thank God, we can be sure of one thing: if there was an issue that was strongly debated and known, thanks also to a strong media mobilization, it was precisely that of the thesis that were addressed in Junta on the theme of the decadence of Silvio Berlusconi. The order of business, in disagreement, retables to the attention of the Assembly the question of referral to the Court of Luxembourg, which refers mainly to the question of the compatibility of the so-called Severino law with Article 49 of the Charter of European Rights and with Article 6.3 of the Treaty of the Union, with reference in particular to Article 267 of the Treaty, which even provides that, if there is a judge of last resort, the referral should be compulsory. We all know that this thesis, which has long been debated also in the media, after it had been opened by one of the prejudices that I had placed in the course of the work of the Junta, has found supporters and denigrators who have faced themselves also in the media. In essence, however, to move on to the political considerations I intend to make (because at least once I want to make political considerations, having been rapporteur up to now and therefore never been able to make a political consideration on this matter), if at the time, in September, the Junta had accepted the request to refer the matter to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling, probably today we would have had a reply from the Court of Luxembourg and we would already know today whether that appeal was admissible or not. This would greatly simplify the political life of this country. I believe that those who argued, with such deep-rooted conviction and repeated conviction, that that road was not viable because of problems of eligibility, in good faith it was probably not so sure that it would be confirmed; it was probably worried that the appeal would be admissible, otherwise it is not explained why the eight weeks have passed anyway and the postponement was not done. Let me turn to a few brief concluding political considerations. I have listened to the debate and I have seen in an almost impersonal way, as is the duty of a rapporteur, the debate which took place mainly around the Junta, rather than within the Junta. I must say that the many inexplicable facts that have been the background to this affair and its epilogue on this day cannot be attributed to a single political assessment. Mr President, when a person, who has the legal culture and also the ability to communicate on a human and political level such as my colleague Mr Lo Moro, I would have to climb to the fact that, within the text of the law, there is the adverb "immediately" which would mean many things and that even for this reason there must be no secret vote; when a colleague, by the sensitivity and qualities that I have known and appreciated in the Junta as Senator Crimi, suddenly, as a high school student, puts himself to make posts that resemble and remind me of the phrases I read in the bathrooms against the school principals, written secretly by some a little exuberant student; when a person who holds the second office of the State like you, President, and not only because he has well understood, for his personal history, the meaning of the institutional role and of the sanction to be applied when it comes short, he considers a matter as that of colleague Crimi little more than a girlfriend, simply because he completed half an hour before that he entered the chamber instead of his own, when he had to have been in the chamber of his own Chamber, but of his own, when he had a bad duty, but of his own, when he would not know of his own, but of his own, but of his own, if he would not know of his own, if he would not of his own, if he would not of his own, if he would not of his own, if he would not of his own. It can be said that perhaps there was in the debate the concern that that dark underground organization that did not vote Prodi but Rodotà could resurrect and condition Italian political life. There were these political considerations, but at the basis of what has happened in recent weeks I see above all the problem of the strength of suggestion and the fight against a symbol. Berlusconi's wasn't treated as a political matter, maybe. It was not even treated as a legal matter. It was a matter that was consumed in the shadow of a series of suggestions of those who saw in Silvio Berlusconi above all a symbol to be demolished, but not so much for its current political fortunes. Berlusconi certainly made an important comeback to the last elections, but I believe that President Bersani has made one of the most resounding landslides in the post-war electoral history. I do not think it was a mobilization against what is Berlusconi as a political symbol at this time, but for everything he represents as a mirror of the contradictions, frustrations and difficulties of a whole part of the country that, for good or evil, has legitimized itself in the fight against this symbol. This has rigged the game, more than we want to admit it or we dare not do it in front of those who are watching from outside this game. It's been rigged, and if it weren't, the rigging of it would have the added value of the futile motives. He said "abotti e futili" " Alfredo Rocco." All I'm saying is trivial, out of respect for colleagues who thought differently from me. In fact, with the judgment passed in January on the prohibition from public offices, Berlusconi would still be out of Parliament. The desire to dramatize this passage, the desire to name it, is a matter that has to do with the theme of the fight against the symbol Berlusconi. It is also a wrong fight, because the real symbol has not been attacked, rather it has been re-launched in some way. One of his many projections, his parliamentary projection, has been attacked. It was, therefore, also a wrong and self-harmful action on the political level, just as it was self-harmful to have this kind of mental system compared to the Berlusconi phenomenon in the last twenty years, which explains much of the defeats of the center-left of the past years. My grandmother said that we cannot all like each other, Mr President. So, it is clear that thinking all these things does not prevent me from believing that it is not the case that the centerright gives gifts to those who live with this kind of suggestions even a country that throws itself into a crisis in the dark, without knowing how it ends, scaring Italian families and maybe turning Renzi into a Savior of the Homeland, which would really be the last paradox I would like to witness in my life. In my beliefs, which I have reiterated in this speech and which have recently been passionate about my rather long life, because for several months we have been fighting on this trench, there are different political consequences from those of other colleagues to draw from. There is no doubt that this is a bad day in Parliament's history. There is no doubt that all this could and should have been done without. There is no doubt - as I said in the Junta, concluding my work as rapporteur - that in these cases or if we are led by politics to force the contradictions of law (unfortunately, that is what has been done), or we get carried by the hand of the law to smooth out the contradictions of politics (the Congresses of the Democratic Party, the problem of the symbol "Berlusconi" and everything we have witnessed). We have fought and will fight until the last vote in this House for the second thing to happen. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u124	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u125	Mr President, I would ask you to be able to give me my speech and to present a brief summary of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u126	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Mazzoni. But please stay in time. Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. Enrico Letta, in one of his first press conferences after his appointment as Premier, said that in Italy there are no political persecutions and, therefore, not even political procure. But those who deny the twenty-year-old judicial persecution against Berlusconi simply deny reality, starting with the famous warranty notice that sent home his first government for an accusation that then turned out to be totally unfounded. Not only do we say it at Forza Italia, in fact Judge Misiani wrote it in a courageous book published in the nineties in which he admitted, he who had founded Democratic Magistracy, that that component togata uses the right as an instrument for the revolutionary transformation of the system. Even the former President of the Violant Chamber acknowledged this, according to which the independence of magistrates from external powers has grown to levels unknown to any other country. They tried all these magistrates to eliminate Berlusconi, they even tried with the Mafia bombs, even overturning the most elementary rules of law by postponing the terms of limitation of an alleged crime of corruption from the moment the money was handed over to the one in which it would be spent. In short, Berlusconi's judicial case is an Italian anomaly called the political use of justice. Who denies it (that is, the left) does it only for convenience, having never managed to eliminate Berlusconi democratically. The final chase to kick him out of the Senate these days and these last few weeks is only the last confirmation. But it is not only Berlusconi who is being expelled from Parliament today: the people's will is being exonerated, and this is a vulnus for our democracy which will, unfortunately, remain indelible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u127	[[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u128	He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by stressing that today we are dealing exclusively with an ad personam political outrage. All that happens here is only the result of a hatred of a dreaded political leader who wants to eliminate himself from the national political scene. Analyzing the legal aspect, we note that we are faced with the danger that the verification of powers will be done with political criteria (position expressed by one of the most authoritative constitutionalists of our country, Constantine Mortati, during the preparatory work of our fundamental Charter, on the occasion of the debate that led to the formulation of Article 66 of the Constitution). A danger that arises today in this House, because we did not want to know, by denying the authority of a Constitutional Court ruling, what is the impact of constitutional principles on the provision that is now to be applied. It has been said that the Constitutional Court could not have been asked about the matter and in the report, document III, No 1 refers to the position taken by the Junta at its meeting on 2 July 2013 where an opinion was finalised in the sense of excluding the referral of a law to the Constitutional Court. The appeal to this opinion of the majority of the Council is not acceptable, at least on my part. In the past there have been parliamentary cases, which could be recalled, in which the opposite was decided: I refer to the report on the contested election of Senator Amoletti in the fourth parliamentary term and to the relevant decision of the Assembly, as well as to the report on the contested election of Senator Stefanelli in the fifth parliamentary term. In both cases the elevability of the constitutionality exception was explicitly accepted in the proceedings before the Junta. On the other hand, the need for an intervention by the Constitutional Court had been supported by those who today are opposed to that intervention. And it was a much more direct intervention. It is enough to recall what was proposed by the Constitutional Act (Room Act 3071) which was presented to the House of Deputies on 27 January 1997 by the members of the then Democratic Left - the Ulivo, the first signatory, Mr Fabio Mussi. This proposal for a constitutional law, which was then examined by the Bicameral Committee for Institutional Reforms, provided that each Chamber should consider the titles of admission of its members and of the causes of ineligibility and incompatibility, but - and that is the point - that the resolution could be challenged before the Constitutional Court with the appeal of one fifth of its members. Therefore, an intervention by the Constitutional Court was considered necessary. This is exactly what Mr Berlusconi has contradicted, thereby giving way to a political vision of a question which should have been examined in the precise context of the law. Many would have been the profiles that the Court should have examined. Firstly, the applicability of the Severino law to Members of Parliament. It has resulted from the application of this law to non-parliamentary politicians the consequent and natural applicability of the law to parliamentarians as well, with a logical passage that cannot in any way be shared as it neglects to consider the particular role that the Constitution assigns to the parliamentarians in more than one provision. It is enough to think of Article 67 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, according to which each Member of Parliament represents the nation and performs his duties without a mandate. And then we should ask ourselves whether a sanction that leads to the forfeiture of parliamentary office should not have been adopted by a higher-ranking legislative source such as the constitutional law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Colucci, please conclude. COLUCCI (NCD). Mr President, I have more to say in my speech. Thank you, however, for your point of order and allow me to turn over the text of my speech so that it is annexed to the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. COLUCCI (NCD). Thank you, Mr President. In conclusion, I call on all Members to reflect, in the face of their own conscience, with the utmost care and weight, on a decision that involves not only the matter, which is very important from the political point of view and the injustice suffered, such as that which concerns President Berlusconi. At this point, I call on the colleges to reflect on President Casini's proposal for a suspension of the decisions of this House pending further assessment that already emerges from the documents that President Berlusconi has made available to the judiciary. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u130	Senator Matteoli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the speeches made by my group's colleagues, to the report by Mr Stefano, to the speech by Senator Lo Moro, who tell me that he is a magistrate. Your speech, in my opinion, should be extrapolated and brought into the university classrooms of the faculties of jurisprudence to teach students how to handle justice. What Mrs Lo Moro has said today is truly incredible. His decisions, President Grasso, have largely demonstrated the positions in the field. But we have a duty to denounce the anomalies with which the problem of the vote on Berlusconi's decadence has been addressed. The case we are discussing today in the Senate presents various anomalies. The first is that if the Senate approves its decadence, Berlusconi will in fact suffer a double ban. This clashes with the general principles of law, the Constitution and, above all, common sense. It is an anomaly not so much studied at the table to hit the so-called political caste, but built ad personam to prevent the leader of the center-right from continuing the parliamentary mandate. On the other hand, at the time of the approval of the legislative decree Severino was already conceivable what the final result of the Mediaset trial would have been, given the persecutory harassment against the accused, not to mention the speed set at the trial to arrive at the final sentence of August 1. The second anomaly, another, of the so-called Severino law is its retroactive application in open conflict with Article 25 of the Italian Constitution and with the written prescriptions in European regulations, which expressly prohibit that a law may be applied to events occurring before its approval. Faced with these evidences the left has moved forward with the rhythm of tanks, with a non-technical-juridical approach, as it would have been right, but exclusively political. All the demands of the centre-right commissioners were therefore rejected during the work of the election committee. To send back to the Constitutional Court; to refer the question of retroactivity back to the European Court of Human Rights: no, we have always voted against it. All this, despite the opinions of illustrious constitutionalists, of cultural and political approach far from the principles and values of the center-right. A rage that starts from far away, for twenty years of struggles conducted with the judicial weapon against a leader who in 1994 prevented the left from conquering power after it had been wiped out by the judiciary, through clean hands, the history of fifty years of the Christian Democrat regime. Forward as tanks, even changing the very clear meaning of the Senate's Rules of Procedure which provides for secret voting when it comes to deciding on people. And this is a very serious aspect, on which the President of the Senate is not immune from responsibility. [[Applause from Senators Bernini and Rizzotti]] because it used its role and powers in a partial way to allow the left to achieve a certain result. Allow me, President: you have a somewhat curious way of presiding over this Senate. I have been in Parliament for many years, and I assure you that both in the House and in the Senate I have never seen a President presiding the way you do. She is innovative, but not in the positive sense: in the negative sense of the term. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It is clear to everyone that with the obvious vote every senator will have to vote according to the direction of the party, and not according to his own conscience and his own inner conviction. Therefore, in all probability the Senate of the Republic - I say this: it is a euphemism, of course - will expel from its bosom a senator, a senator elected in all Italian regions. A political leader who represents a very large proportion of the electorate is expelled with the explicit intention of preventing him from being able to act politically. He never defeated himself in the polls because even when we lost in 2006 it was for 24,000 votes, and then who knows! And it's expelled using a retroactive rule. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). The third anomaly is the worst, because it concerns the political and legalistic vision of the main political ally of the government - until a few hours ago - of the center-right. We all know that with the Berlusconi ban, he should have left the Senate on a judicial basis. Instead, we want to proceed politically to obtain before the Congress of the Democratic Party on December 8 the head of the enemy Berlusconi and to respond to the obsessive media campaign. Democratic Party and various comrades: you're building a path that's unfamiliar, and today you think you've won the war. We are certain, however, as we have had the opportunity to repeat on several occasions, that today is not the end of a cycle nor the closure of a chapter of history begun in 1994. We are convinced rather that today the path started twenty years ago continues. It is certainly a painful stage, but not the end. Silvio Berlusconi is a political leader whose political strength derives from popular consensus, as it had never happened in the history of the Republic. I remember that in 67 years of democratic life never a leader had received the approval of Silvio Berlusconi. It will not be the questionable political judgments handed down by the courts that cancel the votes and choices of Italian voters. There is a substantial difference between what happened 20 years ago and what concerns Berlusconi. Then the pentaparty and its leaders were cancelled because their popular consent collapsed. In the case of Silvio Berlusconi, luckily for us and unfortunately of the left, we record exactly the opposite. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] President, you are making so many innovations, innovate and let me speak a minute more. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u132	It depends on your colleagues, who can give you as much time as you need. He can talk for an hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u133	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). I'm really ending this, ma'am. The leader of Forza Italia continues to keep its popularity intact and its political strength grows. The moment you are about to expel Berlusconi from the Senate, I want to appeal to Berlusconi, because it is useless to address him to you, calling you to common sense: it would not make sense. In Berlusconi, I want to say from this House, which will soon see him expelled, to continue to exercise his political leadership, no matter what happens, of course that the centre-right will achieve new political and electoral successes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u134	Senator Bernini, who will also present the G8 agenda during her speech (text 2). You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u135	Mr President, I will exercise a strict self-discipline to pick up later on some of the points we believe to be most characteristic and indispensable in this sad debate on this sad day. I would just like to explain now the G8 agenda (text 2), which I am presenting together with some of my colleagues, asking for a split vote on the two points of the device, the explanation of which, I must say, is very simple. I have also listened carefully today to the outcome of the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which none of us has failed to follow, and precisely with reference to what Senator Stefano once again said, there are two, in particular, the elements that struck me from the technical point of view. First of all, the seemingly insurmountable affirmation of the political and non-judicial nature of the Junta organ of parliamentary elections and immunities, moreover in contempt and in clear contradiction with the same jurisprudence of the Junta and the dicta of the Supreme Courts, including the Constitutional Court, an issue which has been widely discussed, which has presented margins of doubt and which has had to give its scientific beauty to the arid law of numbers. The second point that struck me concerns the application of the Severino law, of the now famous article 2, paragraph 2, on which there are well-founded doubts that, I must say, exonerate from the limits of this Parliamentary Chamber and, even more so, from the limits of the room where the splendour of the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunity has been celebrated and are deeply penetrating the fabric of the jury, the fabric of the judiciary, I must say, secularly and differently colored, of any latitude and political connotation: deep and, in our opinion, very fundamental and significant constitutionality as to a clear violation of the precept of legal civilization contained in Article 25 of the Constitution, which states, it is imperatively the irretroactivity of the penal norm, according to which no one can be punished, except by virtue of a rule already in force at the time when the event was committed. Not only us, but all over Italy and I would say all over the world, in a comparative perspective, we are measuring ourselves on this issue, and the answers are the most varied, even if no one has said in such an assertive manner, as the rapporteur Stefano did, yes or no: they are all tormented by doubt. So, in this case, 2:00 a.m. When an organ, be it a quasi-semi-para-judicial body or a judicial body, raises the question of the interpretation of a rule in the smell of unconstitutionality, it can be decided in two ways. The first is an interpretation of the norm itself by the secundum Constitutionem body, in accordance with the spirit, dictation and disposition of the Constitution. So you teach me, Mr President, it is the same body that applies the contested rule in the course of self-interpretation, according to the Constitution. This is the first horn on our agenda. Therefore, by applying the contested rule according to the Constitution, we are not already asking for the lack of validation, but for the validation of the election of Senator Berlusconi, since the only constitutionally legitimate interpretation of the Severino law is in the sense of non-retroactivity. The second possibility for the body to apply a rule in the smell of unconstitutionality is to send back modestly the acts to those who know more than him, to those who perhaps, on the basis of the constitutional dictation, have this task foreshadowed, namely the Constitutional Court. And that's exactly the second point of the device. That is why I and my colleagues who are signatories to the agenda are asking for a separate vote: we are asking for a return to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, so that, in a piercing of active and active repentance - given that it is the world that says that the constitutional issue that we pose is not manifestly unfounded - it does not already give a safe conduct to Senator Berlusconi, but sends back the acts to the Constitutional Court. That is what we are asking for and we are asking for the agenda to be voted on by the House separately. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u136	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u137	Mr President, I would like to address President Stefano to question not only the content of his report, but also what happened afterwards, which has clearly shown that the President of the election board was not a super party. Not only did he get hugged, I would say pampering, by Casson, but he turned scientifically to look for President Zanda's gaze, and for ten seconds - from up there you could see very well - there was precisely the agreement of wink, and I ask for the television test because - if God wants! - It's stuck everywhere. We know what you said: you scientifically completed what you had to do. But a president must be super partes. Why is the Presidency of the Council responsible for the opposition? Because it can't be a majority. So, I'm asking President Grasso that, of course, after seeing the TV rehearsal, he replace Stefano. There can be no doubt about that. With regard to the content of the report, with reference to the slogan "Outside the condemned by Parliament," if Stefano had existed in 1924 he would know that Pertini in 1924 had been sentenced to eight months because he was strongly opposed to fascism; therefore, Pertini too had to leave Parliament. On the other hand, Berlusconi was also opposed to Democratic Magistrate, and that is why he must of course go out. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Similarly, Socialist Giacomo Matteotti, when in 1924 in London - he had been kicked out of Italy - published a year of fascist domination where he reported the acts of fascist violence against opponents: what you do now against opponents. I read Matteotti's speech of May 30, 1924, when he said: "We contest in this place and in the trunk the validity of the election of the majority". He was referring to the election board. The election, - the vote in the above-mentioned Junta, - according to us, is essentially invalid. He added that, for their own sake, MEPs had been prevented from deciding freely, with full will and independence. Like you do now. Why don't you want the secret vote? Because you know perfectly well that there are so many guarantors in your files who would vote in a different way and therefore respect the Constitution. You vile the Constitution because you know perfectly well that the secret vote would lead to President Berlusconi's non-deceased vote. This is what Matteotti said in 1924, and by the fascists it was made to disappear in a bloody way, as you do now with Berlusconi. You want to make Berlusconi disappear, as you made Bettino Craxi disappear in 1992, and always with the same weapon: not democratically with the vote, but with the help of the politicized judiciary. It's time for you to stop! In the meantime, you cannot go to power democratically: you can only do it with this judiciary. It's a shame what you're doing! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Giambattista Vico is an Italian philosopher and talks about historical courses and resorts. We see 1924, 1992, 2013: but I am convinced that this will affect yourself. You don't trust yours either, and in fact the theory of suspicion is just communist memory. So - for God's sake - do not try to say that you are in European Socialism, because I will be interpreting the European Court of Human Rights to ask that this disaster not be accomplished, because the socialists have a different culture, they are guarantors and decent people. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u138	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what will remain of this tragic day? First of all, the indelible memory of a political murder, of a return to that dramatic past in which opponents were cleared by all possible means, less than with those lawful of political competition. But there will also remain the memory of ignorance, irresponsibility, superficiality with which an entire ruling class, beginning with its highest representative, has dealt with a story that will weigh enormously on the future of this country. In this Chamber a crime is being consumed lightly and in indifference, and not only against Senator Berlusconi, also because he, the target of twenty years of investigations, searches, interceptions and trials, will become today the symbol, the icon of the perverse use of justice for political purposes and more generally of criminal justice. But another victim of this shortsighted choice, of this sick decision, born of that virus that for years in this country has transformed the right desire for justice that belongs to everyone in a partisan ideology, blind and angry, is democracy. This is the real crime that is taking place today. It is a shadow that stretches over the uncertain future of a country that finds no peace, that cannot find a way out of a crisis that has gripped it for decades, that is at the mercy of the hypocrisy and the lack of courage of a ruling class that has sacrificed on the altar of interests of part and fate rules, guarantees and the same rule of law. From now on it will be normal for a court to condemn a man for the same crime for which, on the other hand, he was acquitted previously by two other courts. Nothing, legal certainty is not a fundamental principle, if anything an optional one. It will also be taken for granted that a law can be applied retroactively, making one of the cornerstones of the law fail. Or again, here in the Senate, it will become a habit for the votes on the person to be taken by obvious scrutiny. Hate - because of this - towards a political opponent, or rather an enemy, justifies this too. We have returned to the end that justifies the means, so that this House can find normal calls of attention to a person in difficulty of Minister Cancellieri, but not those of President Berlusconi. This is a paradox so common in this country that it requires the introduction in the language of a neologism that is now fashionable: double-pessism. Therefore, all interceptions are lawful and publicable, unless those of the Head of State. No, those must be destroyed as soon as possible and the person concerned, always attentive to the forms and prerogatives of the judiciary, has not hesitated to engage an arm-arm with a proxy to achieve that objective. Let's not talk about the legitimate impediment: that is questionable for a Premier who has government commitments. The person concerned, who lives on the Hill, can, instead, safely escape a deposition in a court with a simple refusal. The depositions, the testimonies, apparently, are tasks that concern only ordinary mortals. This does not mean that the Head of State does not have his reasons, indeed; but one cannot be captious with others and less with oneself. So goes the world, pardon, not the world, so goes things in Italy. The point, though, is that things won't always go that way. Our constituent Fathers (who are often referred to as disrespectful), precisely because they were foreshadowed and with particular attention to the rule of law, to individual freedoms and to the division of powers, devised a system of rules, weights and counterweights, knowing that democracy is a good that has great value, but it is also delicate: and so they instituted parliamentary immunity, which the ignavian of a fearful ruling class has archived twenty years ago, but also rules, principles and customs that on this day a shortsighted majority is raking to the ground. They were foreshadowed because they knew very well, after twenty years of Fascism, that it takes little to move from one regime to another; that in one country they can change governments, majorities, the feelings of public opinion, even the direction of the judiciary. That is why a political opponent must be respected. That is why we must give him all possible guarantees. That is why we must not take shortcuts or put under our feet the customs that strengthen a democracy. In fact, if you create negative precedents, if you liquidate a wealth of rules and practices, you remain naked. And one day those priors will probably be used against you. 14.56 p.m. (Following MINZOLINI) What has happened in recent months - and it is the greatest evil - has deserted the rule of law and questioned the belief that ours really is a democracy. Dramatic doubts. And all this to pursue an illusion. Some think, in fact, to liquidate everything in a few hours: to liquidate the Berlusconi man and the Berlusconi politician, his movement, his battles, his ideas. But, indeed, he deludes himself. If anything, the opposite is true. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Minzolini. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). If you think of eliminating a political opponent by making, with the magic wand, a retroactive law, you make a serious mistake. The validity of the opponent's reasons is confirmed, his ideas are strengthened, his supporters are multiplied. One thinks of eliminating a political opponent, but turns him into a martyr, if not a hero. It's the fatal mistake that all regimes make. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u140	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we would have liked to talk about issues that are of interest to citizens; matters that affect young people, the elderly, workers, the unemployed, women; matters that citizens daily expose to us when we Senators of the League return to the territory. These arguments are not the decadence of Silvio Berlusconi or the Severino law, but the decadence of our society, the decadence of our companies, the decadence of work in Italy, the decadence of those who fail to arrive at the end of the month, or the desire for independence of the Regions of the North that has led 130 municipalities of Veneto to vote for the referendum on independence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] These are topics that our fellow citizens live on their own and that they would like to see resolved; subjects that unfortunately do not enthusiast the Roman politics, all focused on trying to rid the people with the Berlusconi yes or the Berlusconi no, hoping to distract the country from the real and daily problems. But let's come to us. What happened to Senator Berlusconi, citizen Berlusconi, could have happened to each of us, but I am convinced that if the same thing had happened to Senator Centinario, the Senate would have treated me better, because for every other Senator we would have adopted the Rules of Procedure. Let us clear all doubts: the League does not want to question the work of the judiciary; there has been a judgment and we respect it. But we want to make some clarity, too. First of all, the failure to respect Article 3 of the Constitution, which provides for the exercise of the principle of equality, which must be guaranteed both in formal and substantive terms; therefore the members of the Council should have decided without prejudice, in full respect of the rights. Then on the non-respect of Article 25 of the Constitution, which prohibits and wants to prevent retroactivity. Therefore, the crucial issue is whether the rules of the Severino law should be applied retroactively to the facts committed in the years 2002 and 2003 and, therefore, the revocation of lawsuits. But we all know very well that, being a grievous rule, its application cannot take place retroactively but only for the future, and therefore to the facts committed after the entry into force on 5 January 2013, otherwise we become a police state, which is something else than the democratic state that we boast to represent. Let us now come to the question of the obvious vote. The League is in favour of a clear vote. We have said it several times and no one can say otherwise: but we change the Rules of Procedure and then we vote. You can't change the rules in the race to make measures ad personam against Guy or Caius. Another important aspect is this suspicious rush. We all know that the final determination of the Court of Cassation will shortly come. We all know this is a closed case. We all know that the matter will soon be resolved, as it should be. So, what's the rush for? To apply a law with a vice of constitutionality? But we are the Senate, colleagues, we are not the condo assembly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] The League does not say that today Berlusconi must be treated as a privileged one. He doesn't say, and he never said. It must be treated like every Italian citizen who is equal before the law. But neither privilege nor witch hunt. The League laughs when our detractors tell us that we are subject to Senator Berlusconi. The League is an independent and disobedient movement. And we are so much so that a few days ago Senator Bondi hoped for a future of Forza Italia without agreements with the North League and without agreements with the New Right Center. Luckily, dear colleague, your traveling companions think differently. But perhaps I would ask you to return to where you came from, perhaps to make agreements with the Democratic Party with which you have gone hand in hand for two years, until twenty-four years ago. The League is for the sake of respect for the rules, whether we are talking about a center-right colleague or a center-left colleague. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that today we would have liked to talk about serious things, about the work that is not there, about pensioners with hunger pensions, about families who do not arrive at the end of the month, about the flows of non-EU citizens who invade us, about the lack of security, about the taxes on the house that only the North pays because in the South there are entire cities without land register or abusive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But your haste, your itches bring us here to deal with a subject that excites everyone except us, who passionates all but us, passionate zero the Italians who live concretely and expect the same from us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bernini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u142	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions of convincing anyone with these speeches. However, we believe it is necessary to reiterate the truth of the facts and to ensure that the acts remain the clear and clear expression of our position. I go for titles, because the facts are obvious and striking. The retroactivity with which the Severino law applies is in clear contrast to the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Constitution, which excludes the possibility of using laws for facts that occurred when that law did not exist. The need, which the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities had also expressed, to entrust the Constitutional Court with an in-depth study of the Severino norm has been denied. And let us not say that the law was the subject of parliamentary approval: the Constitutional Court deals only with laws that have been voted by Parliament, otherwise there would be no need to provide for a judge who must verify the constitutional compatibility of laws that must have been passed in order to be such. We have seen - and I am also addressing President Grasso, who is not present at the moment - further violations, because preventing the secret vote has been a bully, an unprecedented violation. Today Senator Buemi, a man of political tradition quite different from mine, elected on the lists of the Democratic Party, at the opening of our work wanted to emphasize the gravity of this violation recalling ancient precedents. Senator Casini proposed a suspensive issue, which was not accepted by the House, with which he proposed to await final judgments at the level of the Supreme Court. And to those who say that it was so much the same thing, I say that it is not the same thing when it comes to the right, because that fact has not yet been completed and we are here today with a prior decision, and it cannot be argued that Parliament can vote sooner because so much something will happen. In terms of law, moreover, there are many questions that we have asked: the discrasia with the two years of ban that will arise from the sentence once final, the six years of incandidability foreseen by the Severino norm. There are a lot of issues, and I do not have time to summarize them because we are coming to the end of the debate, which we did not even want to hinder. I add nothing more about the presence - here yes, I make the name - of the architect Renzo Piano, who perhaps, having done wonderful works like the Beaubourg and the Aquarium of Genoa, had little time to dedicate to the Senate. But we're not here, Senator Piano, like in Paris at the time of the guillotine, to see the show. I do not know if he will return to the Chamber; he could do what he always does today: ignore the sudden mandate received by a senator for life. To all political opponents I believe that we must say with serenity that Silvio Berlusconi will continue to play his political role. It is not a parliamentary seat that makes a man like him a political leader. And to those who only exist because of the existence of Berlusconi, who are not sitting on this side, but are sitting in certain television studios, in certain editorial offices, in certain political parties, and that if Berlusconi were not there they would have nothing to say and do, we want to say to reassure them: Berlusconi will be there, they will be able to deal with it, fight it and prepare for the electoral defeats that even in these hours every forecast is already outlining. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are here today to carry out our function with great determination, but also with great respect for the institutions. I also want to greet all those citizens who are going peacefully to Rome today. And I say with respect to the President of the Republic that the preventive notes against the demonstrations of the center right could reserve them to those who put iron and fire the cities, also this city, and that they are certainly not the members of our party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Today they will manifest with composure. We, too, are consistently Berlusconian on these benches, we are bitter. But this evening we will be able to rest at some point, because we are in coherence. Others, perhaps, will be sleepless, because in this last mile they should have preferred consistency and loyalty to other cunning. We are consistent, loyal and determined here. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Iurlaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand freedom and democracy, on the other hand an instrumental hatred that mismasks the political inability of those who only aim to demonize the opponent, to make him out literally cheating, playing dirty, not respecting the most basic rules of education, of confrontation, of political debate, but rather appealing to sentences unfortunately already written in a remote past, certainly not recent. Today, illustrious senators, we are called to vote; today we will be called to be judges of a man, of a leader, of a charismatic figure, the most charismatic of the last twenty years. However, we should do so in full consciousness, without being more or less unaware of pressures and prejudices. Only yesterday I read the statements of a political exponent ready to emphasize how in a normal country Senator Berlusconi would already resign. Well, I want to remind this person that in a normal country it is never politics that writes judgments. I would like to remind you that in a normal country you would have expected the Court's ruling on the interpretation of the Severino law. I would like to remind you that in a normal country it would at least be permissible to expect the review of the trial in the light of new evidence. In a normal country, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a sound and lucid ruling class should be aware of its role and preach prudence, necessary not to fall into the trap aimed at politics all by those who want to force the times, speed up, violate and indeed rape the rights of freedom and democracy. Today we will be called to vote and if the vote confirms the climate of hatred breathed in these months we will all be accomplices, indeed soldiers enlisted by the army of injustice. Yet only a few months ago, starting from the day of the inauguration, many of us applauded a Government of broad understanding; many of us applauded the openness, willingness to dialogue, the desire to save a country in emergency that deserved and deserves a guide. Many of us today sit on prestigious armchairs also and above all thanks to Silvio Berlusconi, and all, among those who in those days following the vote applauded, smiled or simply took note of what was a great gesture of generosity, should vote free from preconceptions, free from manipulations, free from a real brainwashing, free above all from cowardice. I would ask everyone, distinguished colleagues, to consider carefully why today's vote is destined to mark the future of the country. A country that, at this point, I do not know how normal it can be defined; a country, however, certainly in emergency. And an emergency country, distinguished colleagues, cannot help Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u145	Senator Formigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, each of us in the New Centro-Rextra Group will vote today firmly against the decadence of Silvio Berlusconi. With a clear conscience and conviction, Mr President, this has always been our position over the last few months and is still our position today. We have not been moved by an ideological prejudice, to say so positive, towards President Berlusconi when we were in the same party; we are not moved today by an ideological prejudice, so to speak negative. We are intimately and deeply convinced of this; there are many reasons and have been well illustrated by other colleagues before me and will be so by our parent Maurizio Sacconi in the explanation of vote. I'd like to touch one. Colleagues of the Left, of the Democratic Party and of the 5 Star Movement, you have always argued that the decadence of Berlusconi is somehow an act due to the law. You have told us that the law must be respected and that it is a pure application of the law. This is the argument that we have also heard repeated by so many of your militants in so many of your assemblies, net of the ideological opposition that has always moved you against Berlusconi and that, in some, has become hatred. The law - therefore - must be applied. Let us not forget that we do not agree: of course we must apply the law, but not prejudice the law. The laws to be applied are certain, well-founded, constitutionally correct and unassailable laws at national and European level. We, and you, today, will not vote by applying a law that has these characteristics. The doubts that have been raised are innumerable: illustrious constitutionalists, certainly not of our political side, have repeatedly said so. This law will be applied retroactively when it contains no retroactive provision, and the absence of this provision makes it inapplicable retroactively, even beyond the fact that the basis of our legal system - one of the fundamental bases - is that no law can establish punishment for a crime that may have been committed before. Here we are talking about a crime that was possibly committed in 2004 and that you claim to sanction with a law passed in 2012. But, as you well know, this is a law at risk of condemnation and sanction by the European Union. Yes, I am talking about sanctions, because if the European Union saw the irregularity, it could also impose a sanction: economic damage to our country. You rejected Mr Pierferdinando Casini's wise proposal of suspensive. You have decided to vote by clear vote because the Junta has so established, even if the Junta has set it in violation and in contradiction with the foundation of all the laws of every democratic country. These are the reasons why today's vote risks being contradictory to any basis of a democratic system. I want to complete my speech with a final reflection on tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, it will also be necessary for this Parliament to decide to bring about the reform of justice, to change everything that is not right in Italian justice, including the issues of the civil liability of magistrates, interceptions and the length of trials. Yes, that reform of justice that no one has been able to do in these 20 years, neither center-right nor centre-left. It is the fault of all of us, of the political class, because it is one of the causes of the crisis in our country. Turning to the reform of justice will mean, at least, albeit lately, bringing justice to the unjust judgment that this House will bring before us today, but from which we will be convinced. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u147	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the mid-1990s Silvio Berlusconi wrote some accompanying pages to a volume that I wish so many people could read, "I praise the madness of Erasmus from Rotterdam." Silvio Berlusconi on that occasion wanted to make it clear - at least this seemed to be his intention - that he had at heart culture and, in particular, philosophy, because other important works in the history of Western thought were subsequently edited in that editorial series. I now turn to Silvio Berlusconi. Those who have a little association with philosophy know that this tradition of thought derives in some way its origin from an example that was provided by a certain Socrates. Now, Socrates, in a famous Plato dialogue, imagines that he meets the laws of the city while trying to escape as a result of his unjust death sentence. Socrates-Platone points out to his disciples that they would like him free and would like him to survive: I would do badly to accept this possibility, I would do badly to accept the violation of the laws, because justice triumphs over everything. (15:17) (Following Morra). Justice is in compliance with the law, even if it should be considered unjust. It is, in fact, in that tension that is realized between behavior of the individual, that tends to justice, and norm that can also be unjust that will work in the future for the construction of a norm that is even more tending to the right. This, my friends, who now call on the whole House to vote in a certain way on my left, should remember this because, even before people, we are called to listen to values. The values of freedom and justice are those that in recent decades have been raped and overwhelmed by a culture that has always allowed prevarication, because there was power with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Without wanting to argue, I believe that we must also reform justice and that this country needs - if we want to save it - a cultural revolution that can and must start only from us, respecting truth and justice. What does respect for the truth mean? Today I have been thinking - for example - about the attacks on senators for life. I told myself that it is very true, they are not always present, who more or less and for many reasons. It is also true, however, that other senators, who perhaps today would like us to vote in a certain way, have seen them here as ectoplasms. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because perhaps they were intent, rather than to do research, to defend causes, absolutely admissible fact, but if one gets elected because he is a candidate, he should also take into account, for institutional respect, his mandate, which he sought, was not conferred on him. In conclusion, I would like to call first of all on the senators who sit on my left and then on all the others. In his letter to so many of us, Mr Berlusconi invites us to reason in conscience. Well, now it is I who invite you: reason if, in conscience, defending with the sword, it is a clear application of the norm, a clear practice for which one refuses to acknowledge that there is a condemned person, it is legitimate in a perspective of justice, truth and democracy. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u149	The debate on this document is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u150	I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u151	Mr President, I think it is appropriate as rapporteur to speak on the agendas, not as a personal matter, but if anything in coherence and continuity with the decisions taken by the Junta. I would like to make a brief comment on the individual points, not before I have said that my opinion is against all the agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u152	Senator Stefano, on the agendas is not expected to express himself: his is a general reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u153	STEFANO, rapporteur. The Senate Assembly, as I have already said this morning, cannot be understood as a national court, as such, entitled in our legal system to raise a question of constitutional legitimacy, nor is it a court competent to raise an interpretative reference to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Beyond this formal fact, in any case, there is no merit requirement for the "non-defensible" fact, which is useful to raise a question of constitutional legitimacy, nor is there any sense of relevance to the European Union's legislation, which is completely unrelated to the matter under consideration, not least because any incandidability profiles in the European Parliament are not currently under discussion. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). What are you talking about? STEFANO, rapporteur. As with the question of the finality of the interdicttive sentence, which I have heard of this morning in various speeches, I believe that we are based on the wrong assumption: the decadence due to the prohibition that has taken place cannot be achieved by a mere act of the final judgment of the judiciary. We must respect the same procedure, which has been followed so far for the decadence from incandidability that has occurred, with the relative timing that is not compressible. To sum up, this would not be a mere act which could take no more than a week, as some have said: rather, it would be an unnecessary reference to a sort of Sisyphus' fatigue, among other things not respecting the laws in force and the judgments become definitive, and here introduced for mere dilatory purposes. [[Comments of Senator Bondi]] A reading of the Rules for the verification of powers requires the dialectical contradictory between the parties - I say this once again to Senator Alberti Casellati - not being able to consider sufficient direct and exclusive interlocation only with the resistant senator. Moreover, this procedure was unanimously agreed by the Bureau, which was supplemented by representatives of the Groups, at its meeting on 1 October 2013. In this sense, there are a number of previous and unique statements in the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies' Elections - for example - at the public sessions of 9 July 2007 (Previewed case), 29 January 2010 (Corsini case) and 28 July 2010 (Dragon case). According to the Rules of Procedure, the contradiction must obviously be supplemented only with the person directly concerned to the possible decision of forfeiture of the Junta. The current first of the non-elected in all regional districts in which Senator Berlusconi was originally proclaimed would not benefit from the procedure in place, since the option decision taken by Senator Berlusconi himself for the Molise region cannot be changed. The decision of the Court of Appeal does not state what the content of some of the speeches wished to recall this morning. To extrapolate a sentence or concept to attribute an unwanted meaning to it is a logical operation, but I believe that it is inconsistent and not acceptable, and certainly the sentence does not qualify decadence as a criminal sanction. This affects every supposed reason for irretroactivity on which, moreover, the authoritative position of the top body of administrative justice has already been recorded. Finally, I recall the judgment of the Council of State, Section V, of 29 October 2013. I conclude by saying that I can only confirm our opposition to the issue of non-validation in the event of certain final convictions. I believe that this request is instrumental and, perhaps, even misleading, as it aims to represent as disorderly and confused the work of the Junta during the chamber of council of 4 October last: I assure you, also in this case, that this was not the case. With regard specifically to the now famous episode of the post of Senator Crimes and the communications of other members of the Junta, I have already provided to President Grasso a detailed report from which it can be seen without uncertainty that the episode has been clarified already during the same chamber of council and that there has been no impact on the good course of the discussion and the consequent decision. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). There's been a violation! STEFANO, rapporteur. In any case, no communication of the members of the Council... CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII) has been identified. But that's not possible. A rapporteur who reopens the debate! STEFANO, rapporteur. ...connoting undue external influences on the decisions to be taken, and the unanimous participation of the members of the Junta in the next session for the approval of the report has definitively recognized its legitimacy. CALIENDO. We voted against!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u154	I am suspending the sitting for a few minutes pending the start of the television shoot. I therefore call on my fellow Members who will take action to ensure that the time allotted is strictly respected. (The sitting was suspended at 3.28 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.) Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u157	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I ask President Stefano to listen to me. The principle on the basis of the resolution to which we are called today is not, as he says, the application of the provisions of a legislative decree (legislative decree, in our opinion, probably spoiled by excessive delegation, even though with connotations of unconstitutionality: I honor to have, at the time, voted an amendment that wanted to correct the delegation). I believe that we, on the other hand, must support the continuation of the defence of the existing constitutional guarantees in our Constitution to protect parliamentary bodies, and not already, as would be the case if we voted on your proposal or if we did not vote on the agendas which are corrective to this one, in favour of piece-by-piece dismantling and demolition, with systematic, pervicacious and biased, of the guarantee system of our Constitution. If (and it is the most important if, most suffered), according to this pervicacious twenty-year struggle against the enemy Berlusconi, you want to continue with the most heinous carelessness, and even with the contempt of fundamental democratic rights, you are mistaken: it is not with a work of Stalinist footprint that you can proceed to the appropriation of institutions, with a way therefore succedanea to the democratic one. Today, President Stefano, you, and your political side, want to make the concept pass, covered by false respect for justice and by what, with the common use of words, is termed a judicial sentiment, that we are not proceeding to a decision but are fulfilling a sentence. It's wrong. The principle I'm talking about is not what you're referring to. I do not want to talk about the impunity of Mr Berlusconi, not about the fact that the possible punishment of a Member of Parliament should not be provided for in the Constitution. I want to talk about the fact that, in order to proceed to that punishment against any Member of Parliament (who is called Moranino or who is called, remembering what happened a few years ago, German), we must proceed not to comply with a sentence but to an authorization. It is in this sense that we must look at what we are doing with greater attention, because from this attention come the life and survival of a rule of law and the survival of our democracy. It has been so, President of the Senate, since the times of the Roman Republic for the tribes of the plebs. It is so today in all the most modern democracies. Democracies have always established that the punishments laid down by a sentence on the part of a Member of Parliament to be approved must not be transposed with mere formality, but must be discussed and authorized. The definition of which body should be called upon to authorize them has been the subject of a lengthy discussion in the Constitution. They took part - small and poor us, compared with those - Calamandrei, Moro, Fanfani, Leo, Mortati. In that debate, President Terracini himself intervened, and on that debate, Mr President, books were written. Our Library of Minerva is full of books on the subject, and on article 66 there is a six hundred-page tome: on article 66, and on those three days of debate. Mortati, who was not just a guy, but an ordinary of constitutional law, parliamentary for several legislatures, member until 1972 of the Constitutional Court, as recorded by the parliamentary chronicles of that time, distinguishing his intervention with the aggressive intervention of dry and peremptory, demanded that there be the protection of minorities, that is, that it was not today's majority to decide on the leader of the opposition. It was necessary to say, and the constituent Fathers said, that there was no domestic jurisdiction, but that it was a third organ, not what could turn into a firing squad, but a third organ to have to decide. It was and is so in England. It is said that there should not be a fourth degree of judgment. In England, over three degrees of judgment, it decides a body outside Parliament, and Parliament has the power to call that decision: on a Member of Parliament, in English democracy, queen of all democracies, there are five degrees of judgment. This is the case in France, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. This is not the case in Romania, and Romania has been called upon by the EU to change that domestic system, which is the same system as the Italian one. Italy as Romania, with all respect for Romania: with the only conjugation that we are the only two Neo-Latin countries. But let's move on. Precisely to give reason to many of the constituent Fathers and many of today's constitutionalists and to give a voice to our conviction, we asked for a third body to intervene in today's decision-making process: we asked for the Constitutional Court to be brought before us. We are told that it was not possible, we are told no with obstinacy, with violent determination, with continued obsessive aggressiveness. You say that Mr Berlusconi should be judged by the majority. Perhaps you are used to doing so, since in 1994 you left it to your majority to judge Mr Vendola: contrary to a report by the Council of Elections voted unanimously which gave it a fall, your majority kept it in Parliament. That's what you're used to doing, and that's what you want to do. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII]] In order not to make a mistake, you have demanded that this be done with a clear vote, so that, in obedience to a hypocritical need of transparency, the parliamentarians do not depart from the madness of the crowd, of Manzoni's memory (Mr. President, we know his passion and we have all read the 'History of the Infamous Column'), which passes through the judgment of the people, which is the court. You have introduced the clear vote, with further violence, and from this I continue to disassociate myself. They are two absolutely different things, as you know: you have obtained this variation, but the country is against you. I read the "History of the Infamous Column": Manzoni then spoke about how, in obedience to a fomented popular belief, sometimes unspeakable and incredible errors of judgment are made, which history then provides to reverse. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII]] The charge of infamy, hour of the condemned, tomorrow will be of you who want to judge him. I do not want to be part of your assembly, and we will therefore vote against the Junta's proposal, so that in the future infamy is yours alone. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII and NCDs.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u160	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are today called upon to take an important decision which, by constitution, is for this House to decide on the incandidability of Senator Berlusconi. We must ask ourselves three questions: is the Severino law manifestly unconstitutional or not? Does it apply to the present case? Are we in the presence of judicial persecution against Senator Berlusconi? The answer to the first question is easy: the law has delegated the Monti Government to issue a legislative decree to provide, in case of conviction for serious crimes, the incandidability to the office of member of Parliament. In the letter m) of paragraph 64 of Article 1 of Law No. 190 of 2012, the Parliament gave direction to the Government to regulate also the forfeiture from the relative offices in case of final judgment after the nominations. I would like to remind all of us that this law was also passed by Senator Berlusconi's party. Well, the Monti Government has done nothing but implement the aforementioned delegation of Parliament. Now Senator Berlusconi's party objects that this would be an unconstitutional law for violating the principle of irretroactivity and that the matter should in any case be referred to the Constitutional Court. Irrespective of the fact that it would really be unheard of if Parliament decided to refer a law passed by Parliament itself to the courts shortly before, the matter is manifestly unfounded. I don't say it, but the State Council says it. As has recently been clarified by the administrative court: the application of the causes of incandidability covered by the Severino law to the sentences of conviction that have occurred in advance does not conflict with the principle of irretroactivity of the criminal law, since the legislation in question is not, even in a broad sense, sanctioning, criminal or administrative. The aim pursued by the legislator is in fact to remove from the development of the munus publicum the subjects whose radical inability is proclaimed by irrevocable judgments of justice. The irrevocable criminal conviction is regarded as merely an objective assumption to which a judgment of moral inability to hold the elective office is linked. The condemnation itself is therefore a negative requirement for the ability to remain a member of Parliament. There is therefore no doubt that the Severino law is in conformity with the Constitution. The answer to the second question is equally simple: Senator Berlusconi was peacefully definitively sentenced to a four-year prison sentence because he was found guilty of committing the crime of tax fraud. He therefore lost the legal requirements to be able to hold the position of senator. Unlike the other elective positions, where the revocation takes place by law, for the simple passage into judgment of the criminal sentence, there is a different rule for parliamentarians: in fact, the Assembly is called to decide, exercising the prerogative under Article 66 of the Constitution. The function of this constitutional rule is known to protect the independence of the Chambers in the persons of their members, as direct expressions of the will-popular sovereignty, against the possibility of interference, conditioning, intimidation, abusive arrests by the bearers of the judiciary, i.e. the magistrates. We must therefore examine whether the various sentences against Senator Berlusconi are an expression of political persecution on the part of the judiciary. I took the time to read the entire judgment of the Court of Cassation of 1 August 2013, which, as we know, confirmed, in the part that interests us, the conformity of judgments of first and second instance, which had established the guilt of Senator Berlusconi. The supreme judges, in my opinion, have motivated their verdict in an impeccable way. In three degrees of judgment it was therefore established that Senator Berlusconi has systematically implemented and practiced for twenty years a fraudulent mechanism of tax evasion to the detriment of the State. The thesis of having been the victim of a scam, which has just been noted, is in my opinion ridiculous and is denied by the facts established by the judiciary and by the attitude of Senator Berlusconi himself, who in this case certainly would not have hesitated to denounce the scammers so many years before. The answer to the third question is therefore that Senator Berlusconi is not a political persecutor, but he has simply suffered a condemnation for a colossal tax evasion; he has therefore lost the legal requirements to be part of this House. For this reason, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote against the proposals which differ from the conclusions of the Council, which we share. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u163	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senators of the Mixed Left Group will vote in favour of the decline of Senator Berlusconi, in accordance with and under the Severino law. In this House and in these days we are trying instead to accredit the thesis of political and judicial persecution. A hammering campaign is under way that aims to paint Senator Berlusconi as a victim of persecution, the object of a coup, what would be being perpetrated in this House, so much so that, on the basis of this alleged persecution, the newly-born Forza Italia decided yesterday to leave the majority and move to the opposition. But the naked facts of these long twenty years tell a story that is not only different but even opposite, that is, of a persecution on the contrary: of a persecution put in place against legality. The facts tell us that Berlusconi has been treated differently from everyone else, but because, in order to save him, laws have been passed for years written tailored to him. 3 October 2001: Parliament adopted, on its own initiative, a law on international interrogations in order to invalidate, for the purposes of the trial for corruption of certain Roman judges, the bank documents received from Switzerland. Beginning of 2002: the penalties and prescriptions for the crime of fake in the budget are drastically lowered, with the result that all the trials for fake in the budget that see Berlusconi accused lapse. End 2001: Justice Minister Castelli denies the extension of Judge Guido Brambilla to try to start the whole SME-Ariosto trial from scratch. 5 November 2002: the Cirami law is approved, which restores the obsolete rule of legitimate expectations for reasons of public order, for the sole purpose of supporting the request to move the SME-Ariosto process from Milan to Brescia; After a while, in December 2002, the financial year 2003 will launch a tombale forgiveness for tax crimes that are used both Mediaset and Berlusconi personally. On 18 June 2003, a law, the so-called Schifani praise, was passed, suspending proceedings against the Presidents of the Republic, the Chambers, the Presidents of the Council and the Constitutional Court. On 29 November 2005 it is the turn of the ex-Cirielli law, what we consider the ideological manifesto of these years: strong with the weak and weak with the strong. Thanks to that law tens of thousands of perpetrators of minor crimes will remain in prison, while Berlusconi gets the prescription in the EMS trial. Berlusconi, defeated in 2006, returned to the Government in 2008 and was approved the so-called Alfano praise, which incorporates the old law Cirami and suspends the trials for the Presidents of the Republic, the Chambers and the Council. In March 2010, failed attempts to block the Mediaset and Miles processes, in which Berlusconi is accused, the law on the legitimate impediment is passed, which imposes the suspension for six months of the processes in which the President of the Council and the Ministers are involved, extendable up to eighteen months on the basis of a single certification of the Presidency of the Council. In 2011 two other drafts of law are presented, one re-proposing the Alfano praise and the other known as "short process," which imposes the prescription for processes whose duration exceeds two years for each degree of judgment. Only the resignation of the Berlusconi government prevented these laws from being passed. What does this list tell us? Are you talking about persecution against Berlusconi, or repeated and continuous attempts to escape the law and trials of Senator Berlusconi? We have only talked about the laws that have tried to ensure that President Berlusconi somehow evades the processes, and not the advantages that he has acquired from the economic point of view. Therefore, what we have listed at this moment certainly does not correspond to an harassment; how much today we are going to vote, that is, the decadence of Senator Berlusconi, corresponds only and only to the application of the law, finally and therefore to the reaffirmation of a simple and solemn principle, which however in these years has been put to the test: the law is equal for all and, therefore, even the powerful must submit to the supremacy of law and law. To those who in these days have claimed that in a normal country the decadence of Senator Berlusconi, according to a precise law of the State, should not have been voted without first addressing the Constitutional Court I would just say that in a normal country the norms that I have previously listed in order to favor a single powerful would have been inconceivable. With this vote we want to reaffirm a principle of legality, which is the substance and essence of democracy. It must be clear that this is only a first step, though fundamental, to restore credibility to the parliamentary institutions; others will have to follow in order to regain the confidence of the citizens. Look, Berlusconism does not lapse with Berlusconi; it cannot and will not be erased by a sentence or by the vote of decadence today. His legacy is far from dead: populism, the reduction of politics to the popularity of the leader, the de facto annihilation of Parliament's functions, the cultural exaltation of cynical research of wealth and its advantage at all costs instead of the pursuit of the common good are unfortunately all still here. They are the legacy of this long twenty years. Overcoming Berlusconism in all fields, building a different system and culture is the task of politics, and this is the challenge as far as we are concerned as the Left Ecology and Freedom and, hopefully, as a center-left as a whole. The challenge before us is to put in place a political and cultural project and an idea of society capable of producing that change that our country desperately needs; but this is our task, our political battle and our design capacity. Today we shall be voting for the decline of Senator Berlusconi, to ensure that all citizens know that we are enforcing the rules, that we apply them, that the law is the same for all and that at last in this Parliament we will no longer make ad personam laws. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u166	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are still here to discuss this issue, which is now affecting our work over the last few months. Unfortunately, various aspects have been included in this whole affair, which perhaps should not have been ingested; For example, on this subject there has been a great role of the media, obviously a great weight of public opinion. We in the North League have tried to address this issue, at least by trying to detach ourselves from aspects that perhaps in some ways we can also define emotional, and we have tried to structure our opinion and our opinion on the matter after all the path that took place in Junta. Our attitude, in fact, was not to arrive with a pre-packaged opinion, trying to find arguments in support of the same, but, on the contrary, to try before analyzing the situation and then arrive at a conclusion. What we can say is that in fact, given the regulatory scope of the Severino legislative decree, perhaps in the end there are more doubts and concerns than certainties. There are very strong doubts and concerns about the constitutionality of the Severino decree, and from this point of view I will certainly refer to speeches made also by colleagues, who, among other things, also during the examination of the Junta, have dealt a lot on issues exquisitely legal, and I will try to be adherent to these issues. The questions of constitutionality concern precisely the retroactivity of the application of the so-called Severino law; we too have had doubts, which we believe can be supported by some judgments in this regard. In fact, if we consider that Article 25 of the Constitution provides for the irretroactivity of the penal norm, it is also true that there are more reasons and reasons that lead us to think that even a sanction such as the so-called revocation should not apply retroactively to facts made before the entry into force of the norm, as in the case of the so-called Severino law. I recall in particular a judgment of the Council of State which, in dealing with the issue of the residence permit, had considered that the non-granting of the residence permit for the commission of certain crimes must be interpreted only for offences committed after the entry into force of the rule. Therefore, even in this case, an afflictive sanction was not considered to be applied for facts committed before the entry into force of the rule that provides it. In making these considerations, we are also assisted by an analysis of Article 7 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. From this point of view too, in accordance with Article 7, which sets itself as an interposed rule, that is, as a provision which must supplement and give substance to our own Constitution, we believe that in fact a sanction such as revocation should be regarded as an afflictive-punitive sanction which cannot be applied to previous events. I recall the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 196 of 2010 which considered, in fact, that from the jurisprudence of the Court of Strasbourg formed in particular on the interpretation of Articles 6 and 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the principle is derived that all measures of a grievous - punitive - nature must be subject to the same rules as the criminal penalty in the strict sense. So, supported by this too, we felt - and this was the sense of the position we took in the course of the work of the Junta - that actually the existing doubts and doubts about the constitutionality of the Severino decree would have advised us to refer the decision on the constitutionality of this legislation back to the Constitutional Court, and in our opinion this would really have been a prudent and appropriate attitude. Among other things, we believe that this path would have in some ways facilitated the management of a situation in which, of course, many aspects which may have little legal status and which are certainly much more political. But to refer to a third body, such as the Constitutional Court, a decision on the scope of the Severino decree would certainly have allowed a third body, apolitical, to decide on the application of the rule. Actually, it was just a matter of time. That is why we voted in favour of this question and the suspensive ones this morning. In fact, we are still convinced that this would have been a path that perhaps would have removed this Senate from embarrassment, whose decision surely could be denied to be political and not legal. Regardless of everything, we obviously cannot go into the matter of morality, the fairness of a judgment such as that of the Court of Cassation which pronounced this sentence. We are of course convinced that the judgments should be respected, but it is also true that a prudent criterion would have suggested a very different course of action. Therefore, the vote that we will be voting on today goes in one direction, which we have already repeated in the seat of the Junta. It is a vote that wants to be contrary to the Severino decree, on which - I repeat - there are doubts and on which all of us should have been called to make some in-depth discussions, and on which the Constitutional Court should have expressed its own final decision. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Caliendo and Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u169	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, no one today feels particular gratification in intervening on such a problematic subject, I would say conflictual, which is part of our history; yet we cannot escape, nor do we want to do so. Only loyal, calm, sober reflections, argued according to reason, can help us, can be of relief, albeit partial, however insufficient. I am fully aware, as we are all aware, of the affliction of those who today are subject to the judgment of this House, where legal, procedural, ethical and social considerations are indissolubly related, as they are, not least, certainly, also political considerations. Clearly, we must not substitute ourselves for the judgment of history, which will have its own ways and times to manifest itself. That is not our responsibility today. Yet undoubtedly today a large part of this story is written through another path. You ask us all therefore a discernment supplement. We feel a very heavy responsibility that in other fields and circumstances would have gone the no less complex path dictated and guided by the precautionary principle. In other words, in the doubt of conscience in a dilemma situation about opposing opinions, one should follow the one most in accordance with the law, according to the principle of tuziorismo. But I am also referring to mitigated tuziorismo, in which the use of freedom is allowed only if it has its highest probability, and on this point my colleague Senator Albertini will be speaking shortly. We would have hoped for a clear and timely path of peace, for time and time, to which we still believe with sincere disposition. The fundamental question to which we must give a firm, reasoned and non-ideological answer is: are we dealing with a punitive effect of condemnation or an effect of a punitive condemnation? I believe that the answer is written: we are dealing with an effect of a sentence that is punitive. We therefore find ourselves in the context of the recognition of a rule of law, or the safeguarding of the supremacy of law and related human-related freedoms. The rule of law presupposes that action is bound and complies with the laws in force. The observance of the laws in force represents the minimum ethical margin, insurmountable for democracy to be based on shared, shared and shared values. Of course, law and politics are directly interconnected in a dynamic of reciprocity, but they can also conflict. It is a conflict, this, that has the possibility to recompose if binary conjugation is not law-political but instead law-democracy, of which politics will not be ancillary anyway. Hence, as recalled, the Constitutional Charter in Article 3: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law." Otherwise, respect for the norm is a foundation and pedagogy for democracy, in which everyone can recognize himself and feel protected; it is the foundation of being together; it is the foundation of social dialectics. At the end of my brief speech, certainly suffered with regard to the arguments, certainly very much felt from the political and ethical-social point of view, I can say that the Civic Choice Group for Italy will vote by majority in favour of the failure to validate the election in the Molise region, pursuant to article 3 paragraph 2, of the legislative decree of 31 December 2012, n. 235. But before we complete this intervention, I believe that what was said a long time ago in which we were told: We who wanted to prepare the ground for kindness, we could not be kind. But you, when the time has come for man to be a helper, think of us with indulgence. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u170	Senator Schifani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u171	Mr President, we are going to say no to an abnormal and unfair choice. Anomalous for all the abnormal procedural paths that have characterized the affair relating to this vote, to the decadence of President Berlusconi. Anomala from the beginning, considering the times that the President of the Council of the elections and parliamentary immunity wanted to give to the rhythms of the Junta's work: an unprecedented acceleration has taken place. It is sufficient to mention the average of the meetings of the election committee over the last five years: two meetings per month. Well, since this procedure was incardinated, in early September, it seemed that the sacred fury of speeding up parliamentary work - which, where it had always been so for all the work of the Commission and of the Assembly, would probably have given more answers to the country - should have obeyed, as it actually obeyed, a political will: nocturnal sessions of the Junta and sessions without end of the work, because one had to achieve an objective, the objective we are coming to, which is of an exquisitely political nature. Then there is another anomaly and it is right that the Italians who listen to us know it: the violation of the secrecy of the chamber of council. We have denounced him in several cases, and we have not been heard. In a body of a legal nature - let me say this, Mr President - because it was at the time of its meeting to deliberate (the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, by established jurisprudence - it has been mentioned several times by my colleagues and also by Senator Caliendo - on that occasion it is the body of the internal jurisdiction of the Senate, because we have the judicial autonomy to decide within our rules in an unappellable way), on that occasion some Members began to talk to the outside world. Beyond the offensive statements to which, among other things, they have allowed themselves to be fulfilled, the bond of secrecy has been violated: we have denounced it, and we have not been heard. This is a serious anomaly which, in my opinion, spoils the proceedings and which should have led you, Mr President, to declare the work of the Junta inadmissible. I'm moving on to another anomaly. I said this this morning: the Rules of Procedure have been changed by an opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. A secret vote clearly foreseen, because it is a vote on the person (because Silvio Berlusconi is a person and we are voting on his decadence, and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate are very clear on this), has turned into a clear vote through an interpretation of the Junta by majority. Colleagues, pay attention to what has been consumed. Today it happened for Berlusconi; tomorrow it can happen for others. The value and patrimony of a system of rules have been broken, and so far it has been the heritage of our institutions. Mr President, a serious precedent has been created. Allow me to say this with the respect I owe you; I also say this to the Council and to the House. You have created a very serious precedent, according to which tomorrow, if you want to go against a person or a political force, a regulation does not change according to the rules of procedure and - therefore - with debate in the Chamber and qualified vote, no: it is done by majority, in the closing of the airtight rooms of the Junta, and not in front of the country as we are here. These are serious anomalies. We then have legal anomalies that lead to the injustice of this vote. We have repeatedly denounced the need to put the assessment of the interpretation of this rule back to the Constitutional Court, whether or not it is retroactive. There are constitutional principles, even of a European nature, which we know, which provide that no person can be punished for a fact if that fact was not criminally relevant at the time when he committed it, because there was no law that sanctioned it. These are the fundamental values of our Charter. Even Europe goes beyond the penalty: Europe even says that not even a personal administrative penalty can be achieved if that sanction was not foreseen at the time when the conduct was carried out. We asked for this: the suspension of the judgment because the Court, with an interpretative (not annulment) judgment of the so-called Severino law, indicated to us legislators the way to verify effectively how this legislation was to be interpreted. We've been told no. It has also been said no to another acute remark. You see, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now witnessing an anomaly in our system. At present, Silvio Berlusconi, according to the natural judge, who is the court of appeal, will be subjected to a ban if the Court of Cassation does not accept the appeal. In fact, the Court of Cassation, with final judgment, has established that, in any case, Silvio Berlusconi must be subjected to a ban and has postponed to the court of appeal the redetermination of the duration of such ancillary penalty. So, there is a judge. The natural judge has established, at the present time, that the ban must strike Berlusconi for two years, but he is a judge who has assessed the extent and gravity of the fact and the behavior (although unjustly according to us); he is the competent judge, who knows the papers of the trial and who has interpreted them according to his own logic. On the contrary, we are witnessing another law - I am referring to the so-called Severino law - which applies an automatism according to which, since there is no natural judge, Silvio Berlusconi must be banned and incanditable for six years through an automatism. Colleagues, but do we realize that this is not a parallelism, but even a legal and constitutional strabism that you are endorsing with this vote? We have asked ourselves this, and we are still asking for a moment of resistance from those who are going to vote in favour of this decadence. Are we in a rule of law? If that were the case, we could also have accepted the suspensive proposal of President Casini regarding the fact that there will be a natural judge who will decide in January-February on the judicial ban. It would have been appropriate to wait for that decision and, in the dark, to refer the matter back to the Court or to suspend today's judgment. It would have been a wise choice: we shared it and voted it. It has also been said no to this, because, from the very beginning, from the very first day, Mr President, since I saw the meetings of the Council and the attitude of colleagues from other parties, I immediately understood that it was based on a political and ideological path of belonging, not on a path of respect for the right and rights of the person; on a path that favoured membership rather than respect for legality. We are voting against the Junta's proposal because we want to distance ourselves from a dark page that is now being carried out in the history of our parliamentary democracy. We believe that an institutional and constitutional rift is being made on the legality, transparency of our rules, which have been violated both in terms of law and in terms of process. We are not, and we say this firmly, calmly, but with conviction, because - let us remember, colleagues - the rules are guarantees of a system, they are the heritage of our democracy and they must be applied without looking at the color, the conscience of the subject to which they are to be applied. The law is the same for all, it is true, but there is also an article 3 of the Constitution which provides that all citizens are equal. Mr President, we have the feeling and the certainty in this House that Article 3 has not been applied and is not being respected towards the citizen and Senator Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u174	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, mercilessly, an Italian history is closed, marked by political failure, moral, ethical and civil embarrassment of the nation and a very heavy criminal history. Stories that intertwine, damnedly, to the detriment of a country exhausted and that lead back to a precise subject, with a precise name and surname: Silvio Berlusconi. His long and brilliant career has already been mentioned in the past: a human and political path studded with contacts and relationships never really clarified, passing through occult societies, P2, corruption in judicial acts, simple corruption, concussion, false testimony, illicit financing, fake budget, tax fraud, corruption of senators, induction to prostitution, exploitation of prostitution and child prostitution. In short, a regular criminal, repeative and committed to crime, even organized, given his associates. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato]] Ideator, organizer and end user of the crimes he committed. Senator Berlusconi, Mr Berlusconi, I am sorry that you are not here. Perhaps some have forgotten that his descent on the field had above all, not to say exclusively, entrepreneurial reasons: the situation of Fininvest in the early 1990s, with more than 5,000 billion lire of debt, spoke all too clearly; the risk of bankruptcy was around the corner. Some of his executives saw the filing of books in court as the only way out. The Forza Italia cure was fantastic for his finances, because - let's remember - he did not enter politics for the good of this country, as he said from behind a desk on all his televisions. The 1994 general election marked the beginning of an illegitimate parliamentary career, on the basis of the violation of a law in force since 1957, No. 361, according to which Silvio Berlusconi was and is clearly ineligible. That law has never been applied, although it was very clear, thanks to the complicity of the center-left of Dalhemian and violating memory. Not to mention the eternal promise, never kept, to resolve the conflict of interest. And all this has happened not for legal reasons - as now someone, lying, would want us to believe - but to honor evil pacts, signed under the table to divide the remains of a country. Maybe someone will be outraged, screaming that these are simple lies. Let the story be the answer! Chamber of Deputies, 28 February 2002, Stenographic report of sitting No 106 of the 14th legislature. I quote the words of Mr Luciano Violante, at the time the leader of the DS, today PD, while addressing a colleague of the apparently opposite side: Mr Berlusconi (...) knows for sure that he was given the full guarantee - and not now, in 1994, when there was a change of government - that television would not have been touched. He knows it and Mr Letta knows it, Uncle. You accused us of regime despite not having done the conflict of interest, we had declared Berlusconi eligible despite the concessions (...). During central-left governments Mediaset's turnover increased 25 times. This is history! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As history is the Senator's descent into the field, made of promises never kept: from tax cuts to millions of jobs. But wasn't it the enlightened entrepreneur who would save Italy, indeed the company Italy? [[Applause from Senator Lezzi.]] What he was supposed to think about the public thing? From Senator Berlusconi's 1994 speech, I quote: "The old political class has been overwhelmed by facts and outdone by times. (...) The self sinking of the old rulers, crushed by the public debt and the illegal financing of the parties, leaves the country unprepared and uncertain in the difficult moment of renewal and transition to a new Republic. Unbelievable, but true: they are his words. But will there legitimately arise the doubt that he has made fun of us for twenty years, and still now? Two months ago we saw several ministers, in his name, present their resignation, starting the curtain of the first crisis of a government born precarious, not to mention the law of stability that had been lying for weeks in the 5th Commission. But do we want to tell the Italians that the law, which should ensure the accounts but above all guarantee the economic restart of our country and its stability, has been degraded and degraded to a simple dilatory expedient to make them earn a few more days in office? Or do we want to remember the two beautiful gifts you will receive at the expense of all of us taxpayers? Solidarity allowance of about 180,000 euros; life allowance of 8,000 euros per month. Then we need to remember why still today someone, despite the evidence of the facts, despite a judgment passed in court, wants a vote, a goddamn vote to apply a law? Does it make sense to reiterate the debacle of twenty years of indoctrination based on appearing, saying and not doing, having and not being? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Even in the last act of his parliamentary history, however, the senator will be able to score a record. The illegitimacy and the unworthiness of his senatorial office are even triple: incandidability occurred, ineligibility and ban from public offices for moral unworthiness. Basically, a real masterpiece! This Senate will then feel a huge lack of the parliamentary work of Mr Berlusconi. I heard senators come back for life today. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators De Petris and Zanoni]] Since the beginning of the legislature, the data demonstrate his dedication to work in this institution; they demonstrate the passion with which he interpreted his mandate in the interest of the country: zero drafts of legislation; zero amendments; zero agendas; zero questions; zero questions; zero motions; zero resolutions [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; speeches in Parliament one, to give confidence to this Government (and even today it is in opposition); presences in the Chamber 0.01 percent! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, what are we discussing? Of the decadence from the office of senator of a character that his mandate never even remotely carried out, of a gentleman who however punctually brought to Palazzo Grazioli and Arcore as much as 16,000 euros per month to do absolutely nothing, if not enjoy parliamentary immunity. Over the past twenty years, Mr Berlusconi has been four times President of the Council of Ministers, President of the Council of the European Union, twice Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, once Minister for Economic Development, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for Health, but, above all, he has been the President of the Council who has for a long time maintained the office of Government and has arranged for the largest parliamentary majority in history. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] An immense power debased and domesticated exclusively for its own purposes, that is to architect crimes and increase its personal economic patrimony. [[Senator Bondi's comments.]] REPETTI (FI-PdL XVII). Tell the Italians they vote for him! TAVERNA (M5S). How much he could have done for this country of ours, if only he had put the common good before his own personal interests [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , structural reforms to ad personam laws! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Time, President! TAVERNA (M5S). And, after all this time, we find ourselves with 40% unemployment, pensioners at 400 euros per month, no right to health, no right to education... MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). He's a senator of the Republic! He's a senator of the Republic! You must enforce that, President! TAVERNA (M5S). ...a territory devastated by the Alps to Sicily, our cities submerged by rains [[Live protests from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] and our poisoned campaigns. [[Senator Zanettin's comments. Applause from the M5S Group]] It was 1997 when Schiavone came to report where quintals of toxic waste had been spilled: the same year that this State decided to keep this information secret. All this with VAT at 22% and a tax burden that is the highest in Europe, equal to 65.8% of commercial profits... ZANETTIN (FI-PdL XVII). Talk to your President Cricket! TAVERNA (M5S). ...and entrepreneurs... [[Live comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Stop! Stop! TAVERNA (M5S). ... that they commit suicide out of desperation, often not even due to debts, but for credits not paid by the public administration, that is, by the State itself! (The Senators of the Group) [[FI-PdL XVII stand up and protest animatedly.]] Senator Berlusconi doesn't seem to worry about this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u175	Let me talk. Let the surgery finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u176	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). President, Berlusconi is a senator and you must guarantee it! TAVERNA (M5S). The decadence of an entire country does not seem to interest him at all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is the show you give the country live. Don't let colleagues talk to you. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish the surgery, Senator. VOICES FROM THE FI-PDL GROUP XVII. (At the address of the President). Sold! Buffoon! Buffoon! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). (Addressed to the Senators of the PD Group). You say something too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Before he's forced to turn someone away, Senator Commissioner Malan, he intervenes on his group. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I'm good, ma'am! CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). We've been through this for seven months! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet! Senator Taverna, finish your surgery. But finish, please, because your time is running out. TAVERNA (M5S). President, I've timed it. It was exactly ten minutes. If I may continue. Senator Berlusconi doesn't seem to worry about this. The decadence of an entire country doesn't seem to interest him at all, only his. Right. CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Get out of here, go! TAVERNA (M5S). He is terrified of atonement for social services, of carrying out tasks that he feels are not up to him. Well, know that those are jobs that hundreds of thousands of good Italians do with dignity and honesty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We hope that this will be an opportunity to get out of his golden world, so that perhaps he will be able to realize the disaster and the abyss in which ordinary citizens find themselves because of the system he generated and fueled. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Enough, President! Take your word off! TAVERNA (M5S). This, however, must not be an anger speech. This is meant to be a speech of hope... [[Live comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u177	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u178	TAVERNA (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. Our presence in this House today is one simple concept: we do not want to call ourselves politicians, but to restore power to the citizens. [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Mr Berlusconi, accept the decadence for which we shall vote in favour today. [[Live comments from Senators Cardiello and Falanga.]] This is not revenge. There is no injustice or persecution here. Here there are only Italian citizens who want to take back their present, otherwise they will no longer have a future. [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] VOICES FROM THE FI-PDL GROUP XVII. Shame! Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u181	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, of course, my time begins now. I make a premise, and I address all my colleagues: I would like this House, which is the Senate House of the Republic, not to confuse the free manifestation of thought with the right to free insult. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] Mr President, this precedent cannot pass, and you who are the guarantor of this House, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution cannot allow that to happen! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] VOICES FROM FI-PDL 17th AND NCD. Bravo! Bravo! BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the decision we are taking today goes far beyond President Berlusconi's personal destiny: it touches on the fundamental point of the relationship between Parliament and the place of popular sovereignty (let us remember that, ladies and gentlemen!), and the judiciary, state order to protect and guarantee citizens' rights. Today we are called to decide whether the leader of the most important movement of the center-right in Italy, four times President of the Council, who represented Italy with honour, presiding three times over the G8 (the only one among all the Heads of Government in the world), has the requirements or not to continue to sit in this Assembly, which is the Assembly of representatives of the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] Today, in other words, we are called upon to determine whether Parliament is and remains sovereign, Mr President, or to abdicate its function, by simply writing the final page of a political use of justice which has lasted for twenty years. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] I try to say it in a few words. Over 9 million voters voted for the coalition led by President Berlusconi and neither I nor any of you can claim to represent this country more than you represented it and Silvio Berlusconi represents it, for his personal history as a man of state and for his current political role as leader of Forza Italia. It is not us, in fact, who mark his destiny, but some magistrates. Some of the many who have taken care of him since he decided to engage in politics for his country. It would also be hypocritical to deny that a real war has been waged over the years between clearly identifiable sectors of the judiciary and appropriately (or, better, opportunistically) selected sectors of politics. A duel of saber, where the judiciary has always had on its side the force of the blade sharpest and most effective. Over the years there has been a pathological degeneration of the relationships of force, in a muscular all-political confrontation between pieces of the judicial order and personalities and political parties. But while politics is subject to the scrutiny of voters and to the balancing of the powers typical of democracies, the judiciary enjoys in Italy conditions of privilege that, from legitimate garrison to protection of independence, have transformed it into an infallible and untouchable "union," totally irresponsible, which is guaranteed the substantial impunity and a power superior to any power of the State, moreover without the investiture of popular consent. This pathological relationship with the judiciary applies in Italy in the same way to all those who are victims of errors and judicial persecutions. Europe has repeatedly condemned us for the unreasonable duration of our trials and the lack of acceptable discipline on the civil liability of magistrates. It follows that the judiciary, in Italy, can, and will be able to, select at will the political class and overturn the choices of the electoral body on the basis of an ideological-judicial scrutiny. That would mean betraying democracy. For this reason the story of the citizen Berlusconi is emblematic, fundamental and has a value that transcends personal destinies. Here, fellow senators, today hand over Berlusconi to this judiciary - which, to put it in a quote by Luciano Violante, has given up being under the throne to take over the scepter of command - means surrendering popular sovereignty. Friends of the Left, who consider today as a 25 April (the liberation from your historical enemy), are actually producing 8 September of democratic institutions. By delivering him you deliver yourself [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] : Following the crusade, you are endorsing the principle that judicial selection of nominations and leadership replaces democratic selection. Attention: it is only low profile propaganda to paint this position as the search for a safe conduct in favor of Berlusconi. Today we criticize with indignation the objective fact that Parliament and the left have moved with blind fury, considering a dogma what a dogma is not and giving up all the prerogatives of deepening and reflection that politics has the right, indeed the duty to claim. The facts say that dozens of proceedings have taken against Silvio Berlusconi that have led to thousands of investigative acts and trials that in twenty years have produced only one definitive condemnation, through the reversal of two previous verdicts of the Supreme Court that had ascertained his innocence on the same facts. Today new evidence and evidence will lead to a request for review of the trial. But it is undeniable that there is a problem of justice in Italy that divides this Assembly as it divides the country. In the Senate we managed, ladies and gentlemen, to trample everything on: from the Constitution to the parliamentary regulations. We wanted, you wanted, to apply the Severino law retroactively, when even in the reasons of the appeal judges the revocation was indicated as administrative sanction and this excluded its retroactivity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] We have even refused to question and await the judgment of the Constitutional Court and the European Courts. We have violated principles that are the pillars of any democracy and torn the page of the Constitution which in Article 25 affirms the principle of the irretroactivity of criminal law as inviolable and prescriptive. We have raped by majority vote (a majority formed only to strike and eliminate as quickly as possible the political opponent Berlusconi) the Chamber Regulations, introducing the clear vote with an interpretative rule that changes our Rules without going through the Chamber. Colleagues, without going through the Chamber! A legal monster. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Shame! BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). There we are, you have moved, producing changes contra personam (this yes against personam), denying the secrecy of the vow on the people whom the constituent Fathers, communists including, indeed, especially them, considered an unbreakable norm of civilization. This fact humiliates the very function of the Members obliged, with a clear vote, to obey more than their conscience (as guaranteed by the confidentiality of the secret vote) to the logics of party, to the indications of the leaders and to the media pressure. And again: you have tolerated that the secrecy, the sacredness of the decision should be violated in the chamber of the council, bringing out also insults and protests against Berlusconi, in order to assure the world of the impartiality of the decision. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] The basic question today is political, historical, national. Do you think you can lightly decide to expel your main political opponent from Parliament? The opponent who with a sense of responsibility worked after the elections for a government of broad understanding? Well, tomorrow you can touch each one of us. To each one of you. We are giving up Parliament's prerogatives. And democracy will never be safe again. Yesterday he remained silent in the face of striking cases (last, but not least, Scaglia) that unfairly paid a high price, while the judges who wronged are not nor will be responsible for their horrors. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LAG Groups.]] Today on Berlusconi not only is silenced, but agrees to the request for an execution. Paraphrasing Brecht, first it is up to some, then others, eventually they will come to take us too and we will be alone and helpless, even if we are right. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Colleagues, will you allow the judges to select leadership and each of us to be exposed to the infernal circuit for which a warranty notice becomes synonymous with guilt in the grandcassa of the media circuit of the fake moralizers? Will you allow the distorted use of investigative tools to become the truth for a public opinion animated by anger towards institutions? Who among you today will vote for the decadence of Senator Berlusconi will have to assume all the responsibility for this decision before the country and the history of Republican Italy. I ask you to put aside the different political visions and to invoke your conscience as citizens and Italians who know how to respect the opponent, who recognize his value and confront themselves in a healthy and loyal competition of ideas. We, in full consciousness, will oppose the decadence, convinced that we do the right thing in the first place with regard to the country. Convinced that this House will not be able to decide otherwise whether it will have respect for itself, for democracy and for shared history. Because I repeat - and I shall finish where I started, Mr President - that the decision we will take today goes far beyond the destinies of the individual. Instead, it will be the test to define the quality of our democratic culture, which will give the country the measure of a courageous and loyal ruling class, which does not seek the shortcuts of the past knot and the platoon of execution, but has the maturity to comply with the inevitable changes of history, respecting the rules and the popular will. Because the history of Italy is not the history of a part, but the history of all Italians. By delivering Berlusconi, you will deliver freedom: ours and yours. [[Live applause from the FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LAG groups. Congratulations. The Senators of the FI-PdL XVII Group scan: "Silvio! Silvio!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u182	Colleagues, please allow explanations of vote to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u183	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u185	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, many issues have been raised today, some are acceptable and others are not. It was an orderly debate, as a whole, in which each of us was able to express our thoughts and opinions. I understand less what I have heard outside the Chamber, and I have two comments to make here. The first is that we must be careful: evoking the square in strong tones is very dangerous for democracy. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] The second is that the insults free and low to President Napolitano are a bad page of our institutional affair. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). This is worse! ZANDA (PD). They are serious and serious mistakes, which have ruined a public debate that for a thousand reasons should have had another content. The distinction between justice and government is one of the traits that form the basis of all the constitutional systems of Western democracies and, despite this, in our public debate the life of the government has been continuously linked to the decadence of Senator Berlusconi. Given his strong personality and the recognized weight he has had in our last twenty years, all this is understandable, even if not acceptable. Politics is the heart of Parliament's life, but despite the tensions of recent weeks, neither politics nor the number of our votes, Senator Bernini, can condition a vote that has another nature. For the Democratic Party, the Senate has only to take note of the judgment of the Supreme Court and apply the decadence provided for by the law. All the rest, all the alternatives represented even today in the numerous preliminary questions, suspensive and agendas that have been presented, all the alternatives to the immediate application of the judgment of the Cassation are artificial built to lengthen the times. But this postponement is not possible, Senator Caliendo. I tell you that just a year ago, here in the Senate, he explicitly appreciated the speed with which the Severino decree was passed. We need to remember our history. In 1994 - it was mentioned this morning - a vast popular rebellion led to profound changes in the country and a drastic reduction in the constitutional protection of the parliamentary mandate. It was the Italians, Senator Minzolini, who were outraged by corruption and the distorted and often vulgar abuse of parliamentary immunity, who made Parliament disappear, with free elections, entire parties and to cancel a generation of politicians. An entire generation, Senator Taverna! The social sensitivity towards the abuse of politics, for which condemnation is now always immediate and heavy, has become increasingly acute since then. And it is precisely this social sensitivity that induced the Berlusconi Government to issue an anti-corruption law and the Monti Government the next decree. We only apply those rules today. No one must subordinate the guarantees of the law to the moods of public opinion, but, on the contrary, we have a duty to prevent the values and sentiments of so many Italians from being offended by unpunished lawlessness. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very careful. Even the reduced prerogatives of the new Article 68 could be called into question by the collective will of the country if we showed that we could not use them correctly, if we gave in to the temptation to consider them not as a guarantee of the freedom of the mandate of the parliamentarians, but as a sign of the privileged status of the political class. Today, in view of the facts and the rules, the vote in favour of the decadence of Senator Berlusconi is not a choice put back to our political discretion: it is our duty towards legality. We will therefore reject the agendas. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Buemi.]] Four months have passed since the notification to the Senate of the sentence by which the Supreme Court irrevocably condemned him and determined the ban from the public offices. I do not dwell on the judicial passages of the matter; it has already been done. I'm going to the substance, and I'm just saying it's the first time in my life and in my long experience that I've ever heard a coup d'état call strict compliance with laws and judgments. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] The election committees and the Rules of Procedure have decided on the application of the decline and how we vote. At the time of its adoption, the Severino decree, which has the force of law, was accepted as a guarantee of the morality of the parliamentarians and never, before the case of Senator Berlusconi, had been questioned the merit, the constitutionality and not even the immediacy of the execution (excuse me if I remember this too, Senator Casini). The Senate was pressed in many ways, direct and indirect, by those who wanted to postpone the vote to infinity and by those who, instead, asked it immediately, before any investigation. There were neither delays nor accelerations: the two Juntas worked impeccably to guarantee the full legitimacy of this session, including the clear vote, on whose purpose I must remind Senator Alberti Casellati because on the case of Senator Di Girolamo I asked for the secret vote. This was not about the verification of the conditions for the eligibility of a senator, but about his personal freedom, i.e. when the secret vote is explicitly required by the combined provisions of Article 113 of our Rules of Procedure and Article 13 of our Constitution. Mr President, the reconstruction of the State, the reaffirmation of the separation of powers and the rule of law are the basis of our democracy, are the premises of our being together: denying them, even in words, are denied the nation itself and the country itself. But in this phase of its tribulated history, however, they are also the field where Italy puts its future into play. They are the condition to emerge from the crisis and to resume the path of social and economic development. We know that the Italian crisis is more serious and more difficult than in the rest of that Europe, where we want to stay tall, with the respectability of the founding country. The crisis has put us in the face of problems of a gravity and a difficulty that so far no one had ever imagined. If we were wise, we should be able to see the danger and be afraid of it, much fear; we should worry about our children, stop stinging, we should think about the future. The nature of our decline is not only economic and financial, but first and foremost a direct consequence of the strong weakening of the state and the dangerous fragility of legality and of those civil values that bind society and the nation together. Nobody underestimates the heavy commitment that awaits the political forces and men who want to lead our country out of difficulties. If anything, it can weigh on us a sense of inadequacy before the depth and number of unsolved problems we face every day. I am thinking of my personal inadequacy, but also of the difficulties of the parties and parliamentary groups, never as today tormented by poverty of thought, divisions, internal contrasts, new leaderships that are proposed and old that weaken. We are in a dramatic historical passage, which can compromise the future of Italy for the next decades. And how could we manage without a profound cultural and moral reform, without keeping the bar straight on the great ethical and civil codes of our civilization, without a daily fidelity to the principles of republican legality? [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]] In a democracy, the first place where the rule of law and the separation of powers must be affirmed and defended is Parliament. This is where they must be affirmed and defended. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). You defended them well! ZANDA (PD). This is the starting point - the sacred duty, I would say - from which soon every senator will have to move to express their vote, because, despite the strength of seventy years of Republic, our country will never be fully democratic if the law is not truly the same for everyone. [[Loud applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u186	I would like to inform the senators that this is the end of the live television link.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u188	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u189	ALBERTINI (SPI). Mr President, the Parent Company in the Senate of the reborn Forza Italia, Senator Paolo Romani, will remember, when he was regional coordinator and I mayor of Milan, what perplexity generated the criterion adopted by the then mayor who did not appoint candidates from the parties of the majority who had pending loads (not judgments passed in court) in companies controlled by the City or participated and, at least, were delegated to them of the institutional functions as city councilors. I got to the point that I didn't want to be candidates, when I accepted the nomination in the second position and conditioned it to this circumstance, people who had pending loads. I can therefore say, for what will follow - if you forgive me the game on the name - that I have applied the "very strict law" rather than the Severino law. Then why am I abstaining today? For exquisitely legal reasons. Article 66 of the Constitution states: "Each Chamber shall judge" and therefore be held liable for jurisdiction. It is not our membership or the political condition that must dictate our choices. Article 25 of the Constitution states very clearly that no one can be punished except by a law that entered into force before the fact committed. [[Applause from Senator Comrade]] It has been argued to me that in this case it is not the application of a criminal penalty, but an administrative penalty. That is the decriminalization law of 1981, n. 689, which states in Article 1 that no one can be subject to administrative sanctions except by virtue of a law that entered into force before the commission of the violation, not its finding. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] Then, all this, also corroborated by the doctrine of valid constitutionalists, certainly not suspect of belonging to the same party that is being discussed, would have suggested to all of us greater prudence and a certain reservation for sending to the Constitutional Court, not of the Severino law (I applied that "severissimo"), of which I guarantee and I am very much inclined to consider it a good law, but of its application in this case, for the connotations of retroactivity that it has. Moreover, if one wishes to add a final argument, the same sentence of the court of appeal, which imposes (and these are the verbs he uses) a sanction and speaks of administrative sanction, seems to evoke with these terms that certainly weighed, considered, given the doctrine of the writer, the delicate circumstance in which he was to express this sentence and even the attention (which certainly was not lacking) that would have been evaluated and considered with particular scrupulousness. Finally, I would like to make one final point, Mr President. I address you with all due respect, esteem and, if you will allow me, also the personal sympathy I have for you and your history. Today the question of the obvious vote or the secret vote has been raised when it comes to decisions relating to people. Well, Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure contains the word 'in any case', which would have suggested (may I, Mr President), to you who have this option, that you propose to the House the choice between the obvious vote and the secret vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] VOICES FROM THE FI-PDL GROUP XVII. (At the address of the President). Sold! Sold! ALBERTINI (SPI). We would all have been saved from a misunderstanding and uncertainty that we have left. His figure as President, as we all know, comes from the Latin verb (and we are in Rome) praesidere: it means protecting the Assembly and each of us in our prerogatives. And the secret vote would have given us a better chance. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD groups and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u190	I remember that the time for dissenting statements should be short, but I accept dissent however it is expressed, despite these demonstrations that continue to be staged. [[Protests from groups FI-PdL XVII and NCD.]] I'm saying I gave Senator Albertini all the time to express his dissent as long as he wanted. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Stop being a moralist! Stop giving wands! Stop being biased!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u192	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u193	IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, I will say this with Christian charity: I do not care much about the fate of Senator Berlusconi, but rather about the rules of coexistence in this House. I would have liked, Mr President, that you, in breach of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure Junta and accepting the invitations that have been made to you by several parties in this House this morning, would have admitted the secret vote. Behind the normative lace ordained by the Giunta per il Regolamento in constancy and to the rescue of a process in itinere, he has dressed a noble dress that however hid miserable and unconfessible interests of part. To succumb to these interests a liberal conquest and a fundamental principle of our democratic system as the secret vote is such a twist, it is such a injury of the principals that our constituent Fathers wanted to protect our parliamentary life that I do not intend to take part in this vote. However, I would like to remind you of two precedents that I believe should make my fellow senators who are about to vote reflect. The first: Law No. 129 of 19 January 1939, establishing the Chamber of Charms and Corporations. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Mariarosaria.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo! IN MAY (SPI). The same established, by amending the Albertine Statute in its entirety, that voting always takes place in a clear manner. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I don't think it can be a precedent for which I boast. The second precedent, perhaps the most important, also because it was not personal questions, is represented by the words of Palmiro Togliatti in the session of the constituent Assembly of 23 April 1947: è noi 104 communisti. (...) The Rules of Procedure of the House are the garrison of our freedom. That is why, if the secret vote has been requested, the secret vote must be taken. And it was done, Mr. President. Poor parties that to follow hyperbolic and circumscribed paths on the banks of the Arno forget their parliamentary history, forget their conquests of freedom. [[Live applause from FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LAG groups and Senators Albertini and Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u196	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to remind you and the House how the vote on the Rules of Procedure took place on an interpretation which, following an agenda presented by my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement Group, opened a debate. Today I hear President Casini, Senator Albertini and colleague Di Maggio saying that they disagree with the obvious vote. The vote in Giunta per il Regolamento ended with a single rejection vote, the one expressed by my colleague vice president of the Senate Lanzillotta representing the Civic Choice Group for Italy. I understand that everything can happen, but the vote that Mrs Lanzillotta then expressed at that sitting, while remaining the sacred right of each of us to freely express our conviction, seems to me not to represent (at least this is what emerged today) the common feeling of that political part. His determination in the Junta for the Rules of Procedure established that today's vote should be clear. I would ask you to reflect on this, just as it is right for the House to know that we are voting with a clear vote, by overturning a rule that was to be voted on by the House, when today it seems to me that that political part, which led to the vote in the Junta and acted as a needle in the balance, was convinced that the vote should have been secret. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD groups and Senator Davico.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u197	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u200	SANTANGELO (M5S). I would like to ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, on this agenda and, if possible, on all the other items tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Santangelo, in view of the delicacy of the votes, I would prefer that this request be made for each agenda and that its support be verified. SANTANGELO (M5S). Definitely President. I would like to announce that I will request a roll-call vote by electronic means for each agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He will ask me from time to time for each vote. That's what I was saying. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'll give you a nod.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u201	Thanks for the announcement. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G1 agenda, presented by Senator Augello and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document III, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u204	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure has been amended, I would ask you, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the prescribed number of senators, to put the next agenda to the vote by secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u205	Senator Malan, I have already replied, and if you want to take back what I have already stated today: On the basis of the literal tenor and logical-systematic meaning of the above-mentioned opinion, the reference was made to the opinion of the Board for the Rules of 30 October 2013 - which provides no exception to the general rule of the clear vote, to all the agendas presented in discrepancies are not applicable either paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of Article 113 of the Regulation. That is the view of the President. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is not the Rules of Procedure, it is a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u208	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank you for reminding all of us and the House of what, to tell the truth, we well remembered, indeed all too well, namely that opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure which, as Senator Bruno mentioned earlier, passed by a majority of seven to six. And I do not mean here, Mr President, to proceed with other arguments, such as that voices have been raised here from parties other than those which had constituted the minority in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure: Senator Albertini, Senator Di Maggio, Senator Buemi. So, basically, voices have been raised from all the parties that have expressed doubts about the viability indicated by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which should, even in the light of the statements, some of which are so virulent, clearly denounce that the vote is not on a legal, political, parliamentary issue, but a vote entirely anchored in the feeling of hatred. I do not want to say that, Mr President, although in the event that you are, as I imagine you are, a referee, wisdom should lead you to refer the matter back to the Rules of Procedure Board and allow the secret vote to be taken within your powers. You see, President, you cleared the matter raised by Senator Malan very easily. Not superficiality, but very easily. However, Mr President, I understand the points of order, interpretations and practices, but then I would like to point out to you that you have to deal with that opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of 1993 which stated, in the run-up to the repeal of the authorization to proceed, at the time provided for in Article 68 of the Constitution, that voting will take place with a clear vote, keeping to the composition of the body. And that opinion of the Giunta per il Regolamento added that, in any case, for the authorizations concerning arrest, searches and interceptions (i.e. essentially those guaranteed by Articles 13 et seq. of the Constitution), it will be possible, at the request of twenty senators, the secret vote provided for in Article 113 (4). Leaving us, as Senator Albertini has said, Senator Di Maggio, Senator Buemi and Senator Casini, we all pose the problem of doubt about retroactivity or not of this arrangement. Criminal sanction, administrative penalty, loss of requirement: we all have this doubt. It was decided not to invest the Constitutional Court in the resolution of this doubt. All right, we had to rush and we had to get Berlusconi out of Parliament quickly. But the problem that is posed by all these authoritative senators, who are not part of our deployment, is about retroactivity. Retroactivity is provided for in the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Constitution. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Thank you. I thought I wasn't interesting. Mr President, I was saying that retroactivity is provided for in the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Constitution, which, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, as referred to in the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of 1993, allows secret voting, if requested by twenty senators. Therefore I believe that you, perhaps in a more thorough way, if you want and intend, even in this case, without this miniature of your nature as a referee, overcoming the request that comes from Forza Italia, must wrong Senator Albertini, Senator Casini, Senator Di Maggio, Senator Buemi and who knows how many other senators that maybe, without intervening, this problem has posed it. You must tell us, in very clear terms, if you consider, also in the light of European jurisprudence, that we are in a different matter from that provided for in the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Constitution. He takes responsibility if he succeeds, because, if he does not succeed, he can only accept the request of Senator Malan and the other 20 signatories of the request. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u209	Thank you for putting forward a question which I thought had already been resolved, not only in the appropriate and competent fora, but also this morning, several times, in this House. The opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of 6 May 1993, which you referred to, has expressly provided for mandatory exceptions, as you yourself said, to the general rule of clear voting for authorisations to proceed with respect to cases of arrest, personal search and home or other deprivation or limitation of personal freedom, keeping these deliberations to the reports referred to in Articles 13 et seq. of the Constitution. [[Senator Malan presents a sign containing the text of Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure: "However, voting on persons and elections by ballot shall be carried out secretly.]] But this isn't where we're supposed to be. Therefore, having considered that these deliberations constitute an expression of a prerogative of the parliamentary body to protect the legitimacy of its composition, neither paragraph 3 nor paragraph 4 of Article 113 shall apply. Therefore, with regard to the deliberations on agendas in discrepancies in cases of non-validity due to incandidability during the parliamentary term, no request for secret voting pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure may be accepted. If you called me back to my responsibility as a referee, you should also accept the referee's decision. For me the point of order that has been made, in limine litis, is not acceptable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u212	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it seems to me that in this case the waters are confused. The application of article 113, paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure has been invoked here, where the Giunta per il Regolamento - I have here the opinion approved by the Giunta - of this paragraph 4 is never mentioned: mention is made of the others, of paragraph 2, of paragraph 3, but never of paragraph 4. I would like to point out to you that, for example, on the agenda that I have presented, there is a dispute over the summons to court of the party against whom the defence of Di Giacomo is concerned: do you want to tell me that this case is not referred to in paragraph 4 of Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 24 of the Constitution, where is the right of defence? If you say so, it upsets all the interpretations that have always been observed in the application of these articles. So, Mr President, I would like to ask you again, because, as Senator Albertini has said, you are doing it: you have asked the Junta for an opinion, which you not only can, but in this case you must disregard, in the face of the many requests that have been made in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u215	[[Live comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] Senator Malan, I invite you, as Senator Quaestor, to maintain order in your Group, not only throughout the House. LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, as you may have the opportunity to reiterate, the members of the Council are not the direct expression of the Groups: they are appointed by the President, there is no proportionality criterion and they operate independently and conscientiously. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They cannot be revoked or replaced. Having said that, I believe that if the Junta met again, I would confirm my opinion. I assure President Palma: the Constitution, in fact, the one you recalled, is valid for the Senate and is valid for the House. In the House, where there is the only positive rule that expressly governs the vote in the matter of decadence, there is a clear prescription of vote: I do not believe that the House is ignored the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] If I am not mistaken (but I cannot say that precisely, I should check the dates), that is precisely the rule that was adopted during President Casini's presidency by the election committee, which had its own rules. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator De Petris]] I repeat, therefore, not only that this matter and the subject of our deliberations do not apply to the vote on persons and, therefore, does not apply to that rule of Article 113, but also that the only principle contained in the law tells us that it is necessary to express itself with a clear vote, because there is no element of conscience and discretion. Therefore, I would suggest caution in invoking the rules of the fascist regime applied in the democratic system, including the House of Deputies. Instead, the status and moral integrity of Parliament should be assessed. Senator Palma, I don't think you, which I believe has helped to approve the Severino law, might have thought that this rule would apply in about 12 years' time, i.e. when you can have the first final sentences for crimes committed after the entry into force. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and M5S groups and Senator Ichino]] It is so unreasonable that this assessment would lead the Constitutional Court on its own to reject any request for union. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, M5S, Mixed and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u218	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). It's okay! We're all happy. We're all happy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, please, we have always allowed democratically to intervene. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). We all know how much pleasure one thing gives us... president. Senator Palma, please do your surgery. We don't have dialogues between the parties. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I don't do any dialogue between the parties. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then do your surgery. . PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to reassure you, Mr Lanzillotta, through you, that I know very well that the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure are chosen by the President. But perhaps it would be appropriate to say that this happens on the advice of the Groups, unless it is the intention of President Lanzillotta or of the Democratic Party or of anyone else, to modify this rule of the Rules of Procedure with an interpretation and thus allow the President, starting tomorrow, to modify the Junta for the Rules of Procedure and to constitute it as he thinks best. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Be careful when talking about the sacred texts. President Grasso and I - alas! - probably for our previous career, we are accustomed to legal Byzantineisms and we know when they serve to support elements that, in themselves, do not have the validity of normative support. So, just to be clear, Mr President, the fact that there was no reference in that opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of 1993 to anything other than the authorization to arrest, and what else arose from the specific subject on which the Council was called upon to intervene. It was only and exclusively the authorization for the judgment provided for at the time by Article 68 which, together with the authorization to proceed, specifically provided for authorization for searches, interceptions and arrests. As the subject submitted to the Council for Rules of Procedure is specific, there really would have been no reason to extend the intervention. That was, President (if he reads that opinion), the safeguard clause that the Senate attributed to itself, when it affirmed, in a verse: We are lifting the secret vote on the authorisation to proceed, so much so that we are lifting it through a constitutional reform and for the other: Do not worry anyone because the interception, the search and the arrest are covered by other constitutional legislation, which is recalled by Article 113 (4) of the Regulation. That, and that alone, said that opinion. I would also remind you, Mr President, that Rule 135-b of the Rules of Procedure we are debating is from 1992, that is a year prior to that opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and that from 1993 on we have always voted by secret ballot. There is no doubt that this is a matter relating to the incandidability which, in some respects, concerns the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Constitution. I would therefore repeat, Mr President, that you must assume the responsibility of saying that you do not call for a jump in any opinion, which does not concern the second paragraph of Article 25. By addressing Senator Di Maggio, if you'll allow me, I'd like to supplement your reasoning. When Fascism imposed the manifest vow, it did so because a few months earlier, in the approval of racial laws, there had been some abstention: by secret vow. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u219	I repeat what I said: the point of order is not acceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u222	SANTANGELO (M5S). I am kindly asking for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. [[Senator Scilipoti presents a sign containing the text of Article 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure: "The ballots are made by secret ballot, however, concerning persons and the elections by means of ballots."]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u225	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not dwell on Senator Palma's argument. Since it is an important sitting and before it was discussed, quite rightly, that the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure appointed by the President express their opinion, but not that of the Groups of which they belong (this is not the time to discern the divisions and events of the Groups), I quote how much I read about the Italian Agency of 14 October: "the secret vote on people has always, historically, protected the freedom of judgment of individual Members of Parliament." Personally, as I am contrary to the ad personam laws I am contrary to the contra personam norms. Senator Linda Lanzillotta said that on October 14th. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , who then changed his mind for reasons that stick to his conscience! [[Senator Scilipoti again presents the sign containing the text of article 113, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Senate.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u226	Senator Scilipoti, I remind you once again that the broadcast is over. Put that sign away, please. Put that sign away! (Parliamentary assistants intervene by subtracting the cartel from Senator Scilipoti). SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). You must respect this House! You must respect the House, the Senate and Parliament!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u227	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u229	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I ask you, and I believe I can do so on behalf of the vast majority of this House, to put the agendas to the vote without delay. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] [[Vivacious protests of the FI-PdL Group XVII]] AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). We're not in the Soviets. We're talking, we're arguing. We are in Italy, we are in free Italy! ZANDA (PD). The Senate has been discussing this topic for five hours. For forty minutes we've been listening again... SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Take orders from Zanda, President! Take orders from Zanda! ZANDA (PD). ...the same arguments we heard this morning. [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] The Senate has the right to vote. Please put the agenda to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u230	We shall proceed to the vote on the G2 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am right and kindly renewing your request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G2 agenda, presented by Senator D'Ascola and other senators. I declare the vote open. [[Senator Falanga points out that he wants to intervene. The vote will then be taken at the next voting time.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). On the order of business you cannot deny us to intervene! Resumption of the debate on document III, point 1 president. I had already opened the vote. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Shut up, Zanda. Shut up, you ignorant! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I ask you to speak on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Compañera had already asked to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u231	Mr President, I understand the insuffering of Mr Zanda and other colleagues, but I have the impression that we are witnessing an encore of last night's unupbuilding evening finale. This morning, at the beginning of our work, there was a discussion, to me not satisfactory, on the opinion given by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. This afternoon, not later than a quarter of an hour ago, Mr Lucio Malan very politely put forward, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for a secret vote, at the end of a very civil debate, especially with regard to him, and especially with colleagues who had not spoken this morning. How can you reply to Mr Malan by repeating the same statement that you made this morning, from which we then realize (I did not know) that the decision of the Council of Six does not in any way concern Article 113 (4) but the first part of Article 113? So why doesn't Senator Malan have the same rights in this House that no one contested when you gave more than necessary to those who, rather than freedom of speech, have used the freedom of insult? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Mr President, I call on you, in the same spirit as Mr Albertini and others, to preside over this House, in the lexical sense of the term, with greater respect for its role, the House, the individual senators, including Senator Berlusconi and Senator Malan. Otherwise, we actually repeat last night's figure. You last night, Mr President, have been stubborn for 40 minutes. Then, thanks to the elegance of the government, we managed to go to sleep. We're at the end of the day. Why shouldn't Senator Malan be answered, but should he receive the same answer as this morning? This is hot pasta, in the light of a seven-hour discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u232	Senator Comrade, do you not suspect that this is the same issue as this morning, so I give the same answer? Do you get that suspicion?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u233	[[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]] Comrade (GAL). No, because it is not paragraph 4 of Article 113, they have shown it to you! If so, then give us the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u234	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u236	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have tabled the G7 agenda, which will be put to the vote. That agenda calls for the application of the Severino law. That's all he asks for, and that's how I answer Senator Zanda. Like last year, I asked for the application of the Severino law, which is currently unenforceable, and I explained the reasons for it. And for this vote, dear President, I ask you to proceed with the secret vote because Rule 135-b does not refer to votes concerning persons, so also indirectly (and here I reply to Senator Lanzillotta), but rather concerns the interpretation of the rule. And on the basis of the interpretation of Rule 135-b (2) there is no chance that you can say that this vote is covered by an opinion. However, even if it is covered by the opinion, I turn to you to decide and historically assume the responsibility for having adhered to an interpretation induced. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But how many times do I have to decide? Paragraph 4 of Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure is not applicable to this vote: point. Nor is paragraph 3. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). But this is not about paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of Article 113! Then she pretends not to listen!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u237	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u238	You have the right to do so. I am aware, however, that this is the last intervention. We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u239	BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in this case I would like to address my colleagues in the Forza Italia Group to tell them that I admire the rigor, passion, generosity and suffering they put into the battle that we are leading for fundamental principles of democracy. But, dear friends, it's no use. We don't need to talk about the Rules of Procedure, the laws, the respect of oppositions. You don't need anything, friends. They have decided with the President that they must vote for the expulsion of President Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] There's no argument I'm holding. So, move on. I only say to my friends in the New Right Center: you are going to rule with these gentlemen. Happy birthday. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u240	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G3 agenda, presented by Senator Alberti Casellati and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document III, point 1 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G4 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G4 agenda, presented by Senator Alberti Casellati and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document III, point 1 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G5 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote by simultaneous ballot, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G5 agenda, presented by Senator Alberti Casellati and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document III, point 1 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G6 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G6 agenda presented by Senator Alberti Casellati and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document III, point 1 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G7 agenda. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u243	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the ancillary penalty for bans on public offices has not yet passed into court. The Severino law must be interpreted in a certain way, and therefore it is not applicable at this time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, tell us how you intend to proceed with the vote. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Two votes. I'm talking about the device.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u244	We shall then proceed to the vote on the first part of the G7 agenda, until point (a) of the package included. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of the agenda G7, presented by Senator Caliendo and other senators, up to the letter a) of the device included. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document III, point 1 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the second part of the G7 agenda, i.e. only point (b) of the proposal. [[Senator Palma points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Palma, I remind you that we are in the process of voting. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I understand, ma'am, but can I ask you something? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can only make a request with regard to the vote. You're welcome. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, like Senator Santangelo, may I also ask politely, kindly, serenely and happily for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Palma, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, on the second part of the agenda G7, presented by Senator Caliendo and other senators, i.e. only letter b) of the device. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document III, point 1 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G8 agenda (text 2). SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to make a similar request, Mr President. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are also calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The support will certainly be there. In any case, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senators Scilipoti, Falanga and Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G8 agenda (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document III, point 1 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G9 agenda. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on the G9 agenda presented by Senator Falanga and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document III, point 1 president. The conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities are therefore to be approved in the sense of declaring the non-validation of the election of Senator Silvio Berlusconi, proclaimed elected in the Molise region. In order to allow the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to carry out investigations into the identification of the successor candidate, I authorize the latter to convene.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u245	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-142.ana.u246	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 28 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5:43 p.m. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
