ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 3 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 23 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (15,03 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u4	I communicate that, on 31 October 2013, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Regional Affairs and the Self-Government: "Conversion to Law of Decree-Law of 31 October 2013, n. 126, introducing urgent financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities and interventions located in the territory". (1149).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u7	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I represent my personal uneasiness, which I find to be widely shared, on the time allowed for the work of the Commissions on the so-called school decree. It is absolutely unimaginable that such a complex measure arrives in the Commissions, even for opinions only, with the possibility of working only one and a half days. Furthermore, Madam President, as I note what we have done now in our Commission, there are parts that leave me extremely concerned. I think and hope that the merit committees will have time to work better, although I do not believe that this will happen. The first Commission, in particular, should point out that there is a subsequent decree within the decree and, as you teach me, Madam President, because we have worked together, it is not possible that there is a further decree in the decree of urgency, because the decree of urgency is based on the fact that it is urgent, and therefore, when there is a further decree, that cannot be so. I'm saying this because we're feeling really uncomfortable. The measure, only for the part on which the 12th is working Commission, it is an omnibus. I wonder how we can continue to work in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u8	Senator Volpi, there is a problem of coordination of the work between the House and the Senate on the decree-laws, and certainly, as President Finocchiaro has announced on other occasions, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will not fail its own assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u9	The next item is the question and questions. It will be carried out first the questioning 2-00062 on the strengthening of the National Corps of Fire Departments. I call Senator Valentini to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u10	Madam President, I will be very brief because, in part, the questioning has been overcome by the facts. In fact, I introduced it in August, when forest fires were occurring. In particular, on August 7, several fires occurred and unfortunately there were no Canadair available, because, out of 30, 12 were stopped due to lack of means. On that occasion in Sardinia there were several problems because the Canadair were busy. I remember that the National Corps of Firefighters puts in the field over 5,000 men each shift, for a total of 20,000 units, with over 2,000 vehicles located throughout the territory, covering alone the 24-hour span. Following this, the President-in-Office of the Council made an important announcement, stating that he wanted to sell state aircraft in order to set in motion not only the remaining Canadair, but also the helicopters supplied to the State Forestry Corps, which unfortunately remained stationary during the forest fires last summer for the same reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u11	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u12	Madam President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Valentini, as she pointed out in her brief illustration, puts to the attention of the Government the problem of the compromise of the country's environmental heritage due to the numerous forest fires and calls for a series of interventions to remedy this situation. It should be pointed out that within the current framework of ministerial powers, this Ministry has specific functions and, in particular, tasks in the fields of public aid, fire prevention, civil defence and civil protection policies. The primary competence in the field of the shut down of forest fires is conferred on the regions; it is the responsibility of the State instead of the use of air vehicles. This set of powers has also been confirmed and strengthened by the framework law on forest fires which assigned the regions the task of defining and planning, through a regional plan, the activities of forecasting, prevention and active fight against forest fires, for which implementation they can, among other things, conclude special conventions with the Ministry of the Interior for the employment of personnel and means of the National Fire Department. Moreover, the frequency and extent of forest fires in recent years has led to an increasing commitment of men and means, far beyond mere cooperation. The intervention of firefighters, in fact, for the proven experience in the field and for the baggage of technical knowledge acquired, has now become constant practice. The importance of the air service carried out by the National Corps - I would like to remind you - has recently been supported by the transfer to the Ministry of the Interior of the operational management of the air fleet fire protection, composed - as Senator Valentini has remembered - from 19 Canadair. The transfer became effective with the issuing of the decree of the President of the Republic 5 April 2013, n. 40, which defined times and modalities of implementation. Among the proposals for innovation and development of the National Fire Department is also the study of the possibility to acquire additional means from other Administrations, in particular helicopters no longer in production and also structures no longer used, in order to enhance human and instrumental resources at the service of the community. Also the most recent legislation (decree-law 31 August 2013, n. 101, converted into law 30 October 2013, n. 125) has further strengthened the importance of the aviation sector of the National Fire Department providing the possibility, in contexts of particular operational difficulty and danger for the safety of people, to carry out public rescue interventions integrated with the Regions and autonomous provinces. In the light of the considerations set out above, there is no doubt that the Department of Fire Department, given the long experience gained in the aviation sector, developed more and more over the years, is fully able to undertake more commitments - as Senator Valentini has wished - in the field of air competition in the fight against forest fires in order to achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness in the sector. In this direction the Ministry of the Interior moves in an attempt to identify, with the involvement of the other administrations concerned, the resources necessary for the strengthening of the aerial fleet.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u15	Mr Valentini (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Bocci, as we are really making great progress - I stress great, not small - in relation to these issues, especially with regard to fire brigades. I am satisfied with the answer, but I wanted to highlight two issues. Firstly, in relation to the Canadair fleet, in the Stability Act, where funding is provided for the sale of state aircraft and others, as President Letta had committed himself, I would point out that such funding is provided (I do not quote the text for short time) at the Ministry of Economy and Finance and not at the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to stress this because there has been a real confusion: we would not understand this aspect, given that the Canadianirs are now under the command of the firemen, while the State Forestry Corps is being mentioned with regard to helicopters. It is therefore very important to better analyse this aspect, Mr Undersecretary, otherwise we are faced with a paradox, namely that there is money but then it is not well known when they arrive and how they arrive, and maybe there are forest fires and the Canadairs cannot fly. The second question that I would like to put to you, but only as a problem, a topic to be addressed in the future, is that perhaps the existing national air fleet, which is also substantial (I refer to helicopters and Canadair of the Department of Civil Protection) would need a reorganization to unify it, because we are faced with so many pieces that never manage to plan a real contrast of the fires when they occur. Thank you, however, for your reply, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u16	Following is the question 3-00373 on the stabilisation of voluntary staff of the National Fire Department. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u17	Madam President, the question brings to the attention of the Government the particular situation in which some volunteer firefighters have come to find themselves who, declared fit for medical examination to which they have regularly submitted themselves during the years of service, subsequently turned out to be unfit for the visit for the stabilisation procedure. First of all, I would like to remind you that the voluntary staff of the National Corps is a definite resource for the country's public relief system. The possibility of drawing on the fire department volunteers' tank represents, in fact, an important opportunity, especially in the presence of particular emerging events and in view of the shortage of permanent staff. In this context, the Ministry of the Interior has always felt the need to protect the professionalism acquired by voluntary staff, as evidenced by the provision of seats in public competitions for access to the qualification of firefighter, as well as the absorption procedures through the so-called stabilisation. However, it should be pointed out that the service provided by the volunteer firefighter, even if paid, does not in any case take on the nature of an employed person, since it does not originate from a fixed-term contract of employment, but is subject to different arrangements and rather constitutes a voluntary service for the national body provided as a result of calls in service. In fact, the rules governing access to the initial qualifications of the role of firefighters are partially different from those governing the procedures for recruitment, advancement and employment of voluntary personnel. This difference is also due to the different levels of responsibility and professional risk of permanent firefighter personnel compared to voluntary staff, as repeatedly confirmed by the administrative judiciary. Moreover, the State Council recently made it clear, in its judgment of 28 October 2010, No 7651, that the verification of the aptitude requirements for access to the initial qualifications of the roles of the actual firefighters in permanent service is not in any way comparable, given the diversity of the criteria, to the verification provided for in the DPR 76/2004 for the registration in the staff of the voluntary firefighters. It is precisely the need to recognise that different level of responsibility and professional risk that justifies, therefore, the use of different disciplines of "recruitment."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u20	Mr Valentini (PD). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, I express my concern, because the reality in the various territories is different: it has happened that some discontinuous vigilantes have been declared fit for medical visits for access to the roles of discontinuous personnel while they have been declared unfit for medical visits for stabilisation procedures. You are right, Secretary: these are two different plans: that is true. The hope is that this will not happen again as often as before, because this House too has voted in favour of a recruitment plan, and in this way it would be possible to cope with the emergency better than in the past. However, it is well known that in the face of an emergency a discontinuous firefighter does the work of the firefighter and even goes out with the first departure. So, for your own safety and security of your foreman, command and state, perhaps it would be better and more transparent if there were a single standard visit for all security guards, regardless of whether you were on permanent or discontinuous duty. And we would be a little quieter, too, because then in reality when disasters occur and there is no staff, the discontinuous firefighters make firefighters to all intents and purposes. I repeat, we need to think about making sure that there is only one standard visit, also to avoid litigation and, therefore, expenditure on the state and also on the vigilantes themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u21	Following is the question 3-00208 on controls relating to the accounting management of the Municipality of Spoleto (Perugia). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u22	Madam President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Lucidi and other senators draw the attention of the Government to some problems related to the accounting management of the Municipality of Spoleto and therefore call for the necessary measures to be taken to initiate the institution's commissioning procedure. First of all, I would like to point out that the dissolution of a democratically elected body is only possible under the conditions set out in the relevant legislation. In fact, in order to protect the good performance and continuity of the administrative action of the local agency, it is sought before intercepting the situations potentially able to lead to the failure in order to solicit the adoption of appropriate corrective measures. Only in the last instance and, in case the continuing non-compliance of the institution risks to aggravate the financial and management conditions, to guarantee the obligatory action of reorganization, is previewed the activation of substitute powers from the prefect. Coming now to the specific case raised by Senator Lucidi concerning the City of Spoleto precise, first, that the whole story arises from a motion of distrust towards the mayor of that city, presented by the opposition council groups pursuant to Article 52 of the text Unico of the local authorities, following the establishment of non-existent credits for about 12 million euros entered in the balance sheet of the institution referred to 2012. The motion was debated at the municipal council meeting on 17 June. On that occasion the Director-General of the Municipality admitted the existence of non-existent accounting errors and residuals, assuming full responsibility for them. The Junta, in the light of these facts, has adopted a first package of measures in self-protection, in order to safeguard the municipal administration and to set up an intervention to limit the expenditure, pending the conclusion of the verification, still in progress, on the 2012 final. Among the first measures taken by the junta are the withdrawal of the appointment to the Director General, the entrusting to a third party and external body to the Municipality of Spoleto of the supervision of the audit on the accounts until its conclusion and the simultaneous total blocking of the commitments of expenditure, except those compulsory. The reorganization of the municipal machinery is also planned with the aim of rationalising expenditure and achieving economies, without, however, limiting the efficiency of the structure. The results of the audits on the accounts will be presented to the Court of Auditors. The findings of the audits will also have to be handed over to the auditors, to the first committee responsible for the budget, and therefore to the City Council. I would also like to point out that the matter, as well as being subject to scrutiny by the Court of Auditors and the municipality itself, is also the subject of an investigation initiated by the Spoletina Prosecutor. In the present case, the replacement of the prefect expressly governed by Article 6 of Legislative Decree No 149 of 6 September 2011 on the premium and sanction measures for local authorities can be exercised only following the investigations carried out by the competent regional section of the Court of Auditors. The latter, in fact, shall transmit the acts to the prefect if the local institution does not take the necessary corrective measures within the time limit allocated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u25	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply, which does not satisfy us, for a number of reasons. First of all, I would like to represent on this occasion that our question about the administrative crisis of the municipality of Spoleto, and in particular about the serious uncertainty of the so-called budgetary hole, is significant to us in some fundamental respects. Firstly, as I will be able to explain in the second part of my speech, there have been new facts, which you, Mr Undersecretary, have not explained, which have substantially increased the situation even more, making it paradoxically current, although my question was from July 2013. New criticalities have emerged from the control of the budgets carried out for the Municipality of Spoleto that are currently under investigation and control. This investigation, as you well know, reaches the budgets of the early 2000s: therefore, not only to this administration but also to the previous one. The other important point to stress is the lack, to date (and I repeat: to date), of certain information from the actors concerned, both due to objective lack of information and to a natural complexity of the topic. This point is particularly significant, because we are talking about a subject - that of the budget - which for us, as we have been saying for a long time, should at the same time be transparent and involved. And here we are, exactly in the opposite condition. The last point to be clarified at this point is, yes, how to get out of this situation, but above all to understand what this plan of return will be and who will be responsible for this plan. To understand this we must identify, if not already those responsible (because this will be the case for the Court of Auditors), who are the actors of this affair. The actors in this affair are the mayor of Spoleto who, as you well know, has resigned his resignation, a deputy mayor, who is still in his place, an advisor to the budget, duly discharged, the general manager of the City of Spoleto, suspended from office but who still receives a salary of 43,000 euros a year, and an auditor also resigned. And that already makes us understand the picture of the situation. From here comes our request of a super partes guarantor. The main reason is the fact that the administrative machine seems abandoned to itself. We review the competences attributed to these figures: the Director-General, Dr. Angelo Cerquiglini, implements, addresses and objectives established by the governing bodies; deals with the efficiency of the administrative machinery; but, above all, prepares, in accordance with the current accounting regulations, the detailed plan of objectives and presents the executive management plan. We had then, in our Junta, endowed ourselves with a budget councillor, Paolo Proietti, who, we said, resigned. We have a Budget Committee, chaired by Antonio Cappelletti, therefore a specific Committee which is interested in budgetary matters and which, among other things, performs advisory functions, contributing to the tasks of direction and political and administrative control to the preliminary evaluation of the instruments of direction and control. In addition to that, we have a college of auditors, who, as we know, must check the regularity and the proposals for deliberation. It shall issue annual reports and six-monthly reports. You can ask for inspections. We have a Municipal Council which is also responsible for the situation regarding both training and the worsening of the budget. The news of the last few days says that the report of the current college of auditors has highlighted further difficulties in data monitoring. You tell us that the report will be given to the Court of Auditors, but you do not tell us when it will happen, because at the moment the auditors have said that they are not able to make a report. The Chairman of the Budget Committee of the City of Spoleto announced that on Thursday there will be City Council but there will be no talk of anything because there are no official data; it is not possible to write a report on the budget data of the City of Spoleto. At the same time, the resigned mayor of Spoleto, Daniele Benedetti, has already prepared a return plan. At this point we have to think and say: return from what, if we don't have numbers on which to reason? Therefore, we ask that we maintain high control over the Municipality of Spoleto and reiterate our request to put in place the appropriate actions, both at the head of us as parliamentarians and at the head of you as Government, to restore a dimension of transparency and participation within the Municipality of Spoleto: participation and transparency that at this moment are not there. I shall conclude by saying that there are already judgments of the Court of Auditors which determine what I have said. The only way out of this decade of inefficiency in our city will have to be painless for our citizens. We know that already in other cities, such as Taranto, the debts caused by the municipal administration were paid by the municipal administrators themselves. This is what we ask: that directors and managers of the City of Spoleto pay. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u26	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4 p.m. with the information of the Minister of Justice. (The sitting was suspended at 3.32 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u27	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the case of Giulia Maria Ligresti. I call the Minister for Justice, Dr. Chancellors.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u28	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to report to this House as soon as I have returned from my commitment to Strasbourg, where I have explained, with great appreciation, the Government's initiatives to overcome the prison emergency and in execution of the well-known sentence on the Torreggiani case. A number of questions have been raised these days in relation to my work as Minister of Justice, and others have been added concerning my personal and professional career. In respect of Parliament, I believe it is essential that we first offer a complete reconstruction of the facts, which will enable an objective opinion to be formed on my behaviour. Also because of the absolute consideration I reserve to this House and its representatives, even before I was given the opportunity to speak here, I felt it necessary to write, on 31 October, a letter to the Leaders, at the same time as the media began to deal with the matter which I will shortly report, showing my total willingness to reconstruct the situation in detail. I would just like to point out that, as you will see, unlike what has been reported by some media, I have never urged the competent bodies to release Mrs Giulia Ligresti, nor have I led anyone else to take any action in this regard. Let's get to the facts. On July 17, 2013, a precautionary measure was carried out against Salvatore Ligresti and his daughters Jonella and Giulia, and it refers to this episode a private phone call that has been made known in these days and of which I will speak more widely later. With reference instead to the specific judicial and penitentiary case that has concerned Giulia Ligresti, I summarize the temporal scan, as reported by the same attorney of Turin. On 2 August, Giulia Ligresti filed a request for a so-called plea; on the same date, the Turin Public Prosecutor gave a favourable opinion on this request, as well as on the further request to obtain the house arrests. On 7 August, the gip rejected the application for house arrest in place of custody in prison. On August 14, the prison director of Vercelli received a report from the prison psychologist and sent it to the Turin judicial offices. On August 19, attorney Vittorio Nessi - the same magistrate from whom I was then heard on August 22 as a person informed of the facts - entrusted the coroner with the task of visiting Giulia Ligresti. On 27 August, the doctor in charge of the prosecutor concluded his investigation, stating that, although it was not a condition of peremptory incompatibility, the stay in prison constitutes a concrete damage to the subject's health. Also on 27 August, in the light of the aforementioned advice, a new application is filed to obtain house arrests, granted the next day by the gip. The reconstruction of the facts highlights an aspect that should result directly, according to every honest conscience, to base a serious and calm assessment on the correctness of my conduct, both from the administrative and political point of view, and, that is, that the release of Giulia Ligresti did not take place as a result of or as a result of my pressure or of my interference - which has never been, nor has it ever simply been conceived - but by an independent decision of the judiciary in Turin, which several times, at the mouth of its summit, has clarified clearly and unequivocally how the granting of house arrests to the Ligresti has been the result of an autonomous evaluation of the proxy, exempt from influences and conditionings; in other words, without anyone ever having been on the part of anyone the slightest attempt to direct the outcome of that important decision. This result was favourable to the defendant only because - I repeat - the free and conscientious application of the rules so wished. He was very ironic about my statement regarding the humanitarian nature of the concerns that prompted me to ask about the fact that Giulia Ligresti's prison treatment took into account her delicate health conditions. However, I should like to make one point, which appears to be of a personal nature. For my cultural formation and libertarian orientation, I have always considered that the question of punishment, imprisonment and its humanization was the pillar on which to build the atonement system in a nation worthy of being considered civil. Our Constitution naturally reminds us of this fundamental obligation, and I feel on my skin, from the moment that I have been given the honour to be Minister of Justice, the duty to hold on to a matter of substantive justice, valid to anyone, woman and man, whose rugged path of life leads, at least once, to cross the prison. It will be said: but not everyone has the opportunity to knock on the doors of the Minister of Justice; not everyone is given the power to make himself heard, to be able to express an authentic discomfort, in the hope that someone will collect it and interpret it. True, not everyone has the possibility of direct contact, and no one more than I has the acute and bleak perception of it, and I can guarantee on my honor that no one more than me feels this disparity of situations in all its painful injustice. Faced with a prison population of more than 64,000 people, of whom as many as 25 percent are in protective custody, it is difficult to be close to everyone, as one would like; but it is not true that the destiny of individual people comes to depend on occasional fortuitous circumstances: I cannot run the idea that the Italian penitentiary system instead is not already structured to respond, despite the undeniable and objective difficulties, in a timely and serious manner to reports that, in any way, make the existence of situations particularly critical for the prisoner emerge. When I say "in any way" I mean that the reports can come from both inside the prison structure, which is active in relation to precise facts or alarm indicators, both from outside the prison or prison administration, by virtue of the efforts of family members or people close to the prisoner or, again, by initiatives of social voluntary associations, guarantee bodies or even individual parliamentarians. It is appropriate to know that I often take charge of these reports personally, in an almost daily interview with the heads of the penitentiary administration, which has become a custom of my day of work. It is equally important to know that within the Department of the penitentiary administration a special structure has been operating for a few years, depending on and under the direct responsibility of one of the two vice-head departments, to whom it is assigned the task of monitoring the psychophysical integrity of the prisoner and his safety, stimulating and controlling the activity of the individual prison institutions. It responds to a fact that, since a more structured network of real systematic monitoring of the most difficult situations has been put in place, there has been a marked decline in critical events in general and suicides in particular, a phenomenon which, however, remains unacceptablely high. As I have already said, every life that goes out in the course of detention is a defeat for the state and the prison system; I feel all the weight of it. Precisely for this reason, as many people now know, I have devoted a significant part of my Guardasigilli's commitment to the problem of prisons, intended above all as an improvement in the living conditions of the prisoner, in that spirit of humanization and adaptation of the prison system to the constitutional and European forecasts based on the re-educational purpose of the sentence. The recent message to the Chambers of President Napolitano, focused on the prison emergency, was the most authoritative confirmation of the importance of the topic and is for me a fundamental stimulus to continue on the path undertaken. Yesterday and today in Strasbourg, this line of government has received, as I anticipated at the outset, broad sharing, both by the Council of Europe and by the European Court of Human Rights, which have recognized the seriousness of our country's commitment, the measures already taken and those planned. When the communications to which I referred come to the penitentiary system, no one wonders whether there is an important or influential name behind them: it is more important than anything and before anything else to ascertain the validity of the alert. This was also the case in Mrs. Ligresti's case. His critical conditions, as I later learned, were in fact known to the Department even before I mentioned them to the Deputy Head of Department, and the prison of Vercelli had already autonomously prepared all the measures aimed at ensuring the health and safety of the prisoner. It corresponds, therefore, to a distorted view of the facts to say that the story of Giulia Ligresti had a differentiated and privileged treatment, different from what would of course be the responsibility of any other prisoner. However, I feel the need to return to a theme already mentioned, which is among the most delicate because it offends more than any other my honour, overshadowing opacity of behavior or, worse, real distortions and deviations from the canons of impartiality and institutional correctness. In other words, I would have failed my office duties. It is not my custom to defend myself using the words of others, but I can not fail to remember - once again - the repeated statements of the attorney of Turin, Giancarlo Caselli, according to which, literally, all the findings of the file (of the procedure related to Giulia Ligresti) bear witness in a unique and incontrovertible way that the granting of house arrests took place exclusively on the basis of the convergence of decisive objective circumstances: the health conditions verified with medical-legal advice and the intervention request for pleas from the accused, dating back to 2 August and therefore long before the telephone conversations object of the news. It follows - I always quote the words of the prosecutor Caselli - that it would be arbitrary and completely destitute of foundation any illation that relates the granting of house arrests to external circumstances of any kind. As proof of this, I wish to reiterate that the doctor of the Vercelli Institute, already on 12 August, signalled to the director the seriousness of the health conditions of Giulia Ligresti. On 14 August, the director transmitted the report to the judicial authority in Turin. My conversations with the two vice-heads of the DAP are on August 19, that is, five days later than the initiative undertaken by doctors in the prison of Vercelli. This simple time-scan of events shows that there is no connection, unlike what some have assumed, between my behaviour and the initiative taken by the prison. In addition, my communication with the DAP summits was limited to the transmission of information on the critical health conditions of an inmate who was in protective custody. I do not want to evade, of course, an issue on which I feel I have to explain, and it is precisely that of my relations with the Ligresti family, which, according to some illations, would have been the real cause of my intervention. I have been and am friend of Antonino Ligresti, knowledge gained during my long stay in Milan, for reasons completely unrelated to my professional activity. In no way has my career ever been influenced either by these or by other personal relationships. This is the reason why I want to assure you today that I am and wish to be regarded as a free person, who has not contracted debts of gratitude to which he would not be able to escape. Even my son, Piergiorgio Peluso, has been unduly dragged into this affair and, however unpleasant it is to touch a topic on which I cannot help feeling emotionally involved, I also feel here that I have to give an inescapable clarification. His position within the Fonsai company is the result of his past experience in banking and finance. I would also like to point out that my son received the job offer from Fonsai on 25 May 2011 and, in the following month of June, began his employment relationship with the same company. During that same period I had already ceased my duties as Special Commissioner at the Municipality of Bologna and I was a quiet retired lady, who never thought she could become Minister of the Interior in the following November. As regards the evaluation of his work in Fonsai, I refer him to the reading of the documents of the ongoing trial with the judicial authority of Turin. I now come to the famous phone call of July 17. With that phone call to Mrs. Gabriella Fragni I wanted to express a feeling of human closeness to a person who had come to find himself in a situation of exceptional emotional impact for the arrest of all family members. The expressions I used in that context were, therefore, intended to create empathy with a person deeply prostrated for what happened. I realize that some of the expressions used in that phone call may have raised doubts about the meaning of my words. I am sorry that it has been so and I regret that I have made the sentiments prevail over the necessary detachment that the role of Minister should perhaps have imposed, but the only way I have to show that the meaning of those words was really what I have now described is to invite you to analyze my behavior after that call. After that contact I did not assume and would not have taken any initiative of my own had I not been reached by the information, in the manner I have already mentioned, of the worsening of the health conditions of Giulia Ligresti. I can peacefully say that I acted, even if instinctively, without ever derogating from my duties as Minister and without the knowledge of some members of the Ligresti family affecting my work. I have acted exactly the same way that I have behaved in many other cases. I don't need to list them, they are many and anonymous, more than a hundred just in recent months; they are all at the records of the offices available for those who want to see them. Finally, even today news has appeared in the press about further, alleged, favoritisms for the transfer of the inmate Jonella Ligresti. I would like to point out that the checks carried out at the DAP clearly show the absolute linearity of the procedures followed, including the clearance of the competent judicial authority. Never - I say never - have I intervened on this case. I am grateful to this House for giving me the opportunity to finally be able to offer a full version of the whole story. From these clarifications I hope that the uniformity and consistency of my conduct will emerge. I have not artificially distinguished, nor have I tried to do so, the Minister from the person. I've been myself all the time. I cannot hide that I am saddened by the use made of this story and that I am sincerely sorry for the outburst of it, which has led to an emotional factor, which I would never have liked to have caused. I consider the confidence of Parliament to be decisive for the continuation of my position as Minister. The government has, in fact, various and important measures on the justice front, all very delicate and complex, which require a strong understanding between the Executive and Parliament to be completed. I do not want to stand in the way of this and, therefore, I will not hesitate to take a step back if I should warn from today's debate that the institutional esteem on which I believe the basis of every ministerial mandate has failed or cracked. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Senator Naccarato and the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u29	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Justice. Senator Ferrara Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u30	Mr President, a systemic approach to an event is given by the analysis of the fact itself, its how and its why. The reason for the fact that we are talking about today is the interceptions, which today have become a national and also international sport, since President Prodi on "The Messenger" of 25 October last concluded by saying that by their abuse is at stake not only freedom, but the same safety of all of us. What does that have to do with what I'm saying? It has to do with the fact that, by examining why, I feel comforted by the statements made by Dr Massolo before the Copasir. We were not present at that session of the Copasir (other than what is said inside is covered by secrecy), but we read that statement in an article published in the "Corriere della Sera" of 29 October last. Well, Dr. Massolo said that President Letta has an encrypted phone and an anti-intrusion briefcase and that Ministers are protected by a system of protection on mobile phones and their fixed network. Mr President, we are then disappointed that Mr Cancellieri has been intercepted and that our legislation does not provide authorization for the use of such interceptions. The Constitution provides for Members of Parliament, but the constituent Fathers have forgotten Ministers, who may not be Members of Parliament. So it happens that prosecutors of the Republic, without proper authorization, without due respect, without the fair play that exists in the world but that we disown in Italy, go to Rome to question the Minister of Justice on a topic related to an interception. We are also appalled by the lack of boundaries of a certain arrogance which in these hours generates attention to such a subject rather than discussing the law, stability and many other important issues that we should discuss. Without uncomfortable the evangelical saying "Who is without sin throw the first stone", even the most immersive among us have a vast experience of interest perorated by adamantini and important characters, without having to remember how much in this regard the late President Andreotti and hope for the surveys of his archive. We are disappointed because today we would not hold the same debate if the object was not Giulia Ligresti, a rich and powerful woman, but the daughter or the conspiracy of the colf or the goalkeeper of Minister Cancellieri, where the fault is to have had frequentation with the Ligresti. The same fault, therefore, of Versace, Trussardi and 500 other VIPs invited to the wedding of Giulia Ligresti, including the former minister Umberto Veronesi. We are comforted, Madam Minister, because you have reacted well to the attacks. You have our support, our understanding, our appreciation and, finally, a particular compliment. Mr Grasso, it is your prerogative to speak if a speaker uses inappropriate words; to relieve you of the burden, I will take the floor even before you can take it away from me, but that is precisely why I cannot, at the end of my speech, not say that there is finally a Minister with balls in Italy every now and then! [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Razzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u31	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u32	Minister, thank you for your communication, but it was not necessary for me: we trust you. Mr. Minister, don't take a step back: take a quick step forward. Address with greater determination the issues that the very serious crisis of Italian justice places to our attention, and to its in particular. Do not listen to the beautiful souls of this country who apply the double truth with a punctual and scientific method, always pointing the finger at others and using the politically correct for incorrect and oblique actions. The injustices in our country are many, and many those of the State, which concern rich and poor, powerful and powerless, without any hesitation. Do not give up on your humanity, but use it in a disruptive way to break down this crust of hypocrisy, insensitivity, collective distraction that pervades our country and that awakens only in the face of striking and often tragic facts, to be absorbed however by the sleep of indifference the day after they happened. Minister, Cagliari, Gardini, Moroni and many others I don't mention, but there are hundreds a year, they would need a minister who closely follows their events in front of a deaf, insensitive and careless state. Do not give up, therefore, Madam Minister, your humanity and your attention; do not give up even your friendship, because friendship, relatives, the neighbourhoods of home or work are the door of our lives: what matters is our behaviour, the rigour with which we apply the laws, and not the criticism that comes from interested and often unaware circles. Let us talk about concrete things, Minister: a short and long agenda of commitments awaits and awaits us. Italy needs swift justice, human justice, respectful of man, even if guilty; prisons not criminal universities, but school of good behavior; work that educates and does not idle that frustrates; a responsible judiciary, attentive, timely and impartial. Minister, you have a lot of work to do; we have a lot of work to do together. We're with her. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are with you. Let's not listen to the chatter, but let's move on with the facts: Italy needs it. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAI) and PDL and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u33	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resignation of Mr Cancellieri is necessary - regardless of any other consideration - for two reasons. Firstly, because the intervention in favour of Giulia Ligresti raises serious questions about the impartiality of the Minister of Justice. That uniformity in the acts and assessments that we all ask of a middle school professor, a municipal employee and an elementary teacher, the more we have the right to demand it from a Minister Guardasigilli. The citizen must be sure that there are no children and stepchildren. Every year they die in Italian prisons, in total indifference, hundreds of prisoners, by suicide or illness. Some of them are awaiting judgment. It seems to me that the death penalty has never been abolished. But this is true of the poor. As soon as you run into white collars, things suddenly change. This spreads among citizens the belief that the law is not the same for all and that the powerful are able to make and undo any legal rule, depending on their convenience. Then there is another reason, as I said, for which the Minister's words leave much perplexed: from them emerges a serious trivialization of financial crimes. It is a widespread attitude in the ruling classes of our country. However, the charges of Giulia Ligresti remain very serious: adjustment, tax evasion, false in the budget. It should not be surprised that underestimating these crimes is now part of the common sense alongside the idea that bribing public officials, not paying suppliers, disregarding contracts, defrauding the tax are not practices worthy of any moral sanction. It is not difficult to understand the consequences of all this for the prestige and the same economic hold of our country. The good faith of a minister - whom I do not want to question - and neither the fate of a government is at stake in this House; the credibility of the state is at stake. The fact that Minister Cancellieri has not already resigned, nor has the intention of doing so, strengthens the belief that the powerful, unlike ordinary people, are given the opportunity to always assert their right or wrong reasons. It would therefore be appropriate to appeal, even before the sense of responsibility, to common sense. If this spiral of generalized distrust with consequent acts and behaviour is not stopped, the future of Italian democracy will be obscure. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Anitori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u35	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u36	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, there is one point in this matter which we believe needs to be clarified beyond any ambiguity: there is no dispute on our part, on the part of the Left Ecology and Freedom of the Mixed Group, about the release of Giulia Ligresti, who is held in protective custody, for serious health reasons. It was, in our opinion, a due act: it was an act of justice, in a prison universe in which unfortunately justice and civilization are rare commodities. What convinced us, however, much less, and that among the former we stated that we had to be the subject of Parliament's attention, was the way in which this act was requested by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, that is, not by an act in the light of the sun, to impose on politics the obligation to address serious and urgent problems, such as the abuse of precautionary detention and the health conditions of prisoners, but by a phone call, that is, by a classic intervention from above. It is on this point that we asked for clarification, not because Giulia Ligresti had to remain in prison, but because we understood from the beginning that this road, in a country where for too many years the division between A-series and B-series citizens before the law has been dramatically evident, could have accentuated this perception, that is, that according to which in Italy the law is not equal for all. That is why, Madam Minister, we ask you a simple question: what would you have thought of a matter like this if it had been not the Minister of Justice but any citizen? What do you think public opinion should think? I would like to address your conscience and your intellectual honesty before the institution you represent. This is because justice in our country for too long has been strong with the weak and weak with the strong. In this country laws have been passed, like the former Cirielli, which allowed the powerful to escape justice and took away all hope of the socially weaker, branding them as repeated relapses. In this country it has happened too many times that the life of a prisoner, who should be even more sacred when he is in the hands of the State, has been trampled on, until the tragedies we well know. We think that it is not enough to say that the law must be the same for everyone: it must be equally just, not equally unjust. Only a barbaric culture with resentment would be satisfied if everyone were treated like too many sick inmates who lie forgotten in our jails. You have to want and you have to get exactly the opposite: that everyone is treated as Giulia Ligresti was treated. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAP Groups]] For this to happen, however, it is necessary to proceed in the light of the sun, in the most transparent way possible, and not with private interests, because for that way in our opinion we do not fight the idea of justice at two speeds, one for the powerful and the other for the rest of the world. And from this point of view, despite its clarifications today, which, of course, we will examine, we consider inappropriate that conversation, very inappropriate: I am referring to the private conversation of 17 July, the so-called call of solidarity. How can a minister not remember Article 98 of the Constitution, the one that calls public officials to the exclusive service of the nation, and therefore never, ever, of his private knowledge? You, Minister, said here that you have moved in dozens of other cases such as that of Giulia Ligresti: we have no reason not to believe you, not least because we know your sensitivity and recognize them from the first day, from the first hearing you held in the Justice Commission of this Senate, that you were interested in the problem of prisons much more than many of your predecessors. And if in these months we have talked about alternative penalties, public service work, testing, we owe it to you, and of course we recognize it. We believe, however, that it would have been equally necessary, also and above all given the relations of closeness with the Ligresti family, to use in this case a more sensitive one, with as much transparency as possible. That was not the case, and that is why we considered it a mistake. From this story, however, in our opinion, the institutions recover the credibility that these facts have unfortunately inevitably cracked if they take the opportunity to address the problem at its root, immediately dissolving the nodes of the precautionary detention of sick prisoners and finally introducing the figure of the national guarantor of prisoners. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and Mixed-GAP Groups and Senator Della Vedova]] The institutions will recover credibility if they work with due urgency to ensure fair and civil treatment for all, even before the expiry of the Torreggiani pilot sentence. They will do so by creating such a situation that one can no longer even suspect that, if a prisoner sees his rights respected, it is only because he may have some saint in paradise and not because, as he should be, justice is just. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and Mixed-GAP Groups and Senator Falanga]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bitonci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, I would like to say that there is nothing personal about what I will say in my speech. The story, as we know, is now known and we all know its contours. We in the League sincerely do not care about the human case; it does not care that there are human cases such as this and human cases that are different from other human cases. You have also shown your humanity as Minister with the Cucchi family and the Aldrovandi family, rightly, clearly, in your current role and in what you have held as Minister of the Interior. Her sensitivity to evil justice honors her and her reckless way of intervening in these obvious cases of bad justice gives her credit. But this is quite different: quite different because in those other circumstances you have intervened as a minister and not as a family friend who, from the top of his office, tries to reassure the people who care about them, promising them to do everything possible to find a solution to the human case that personally afflicts them. We at the League have great respect for the institutions, but we are not the victims. We are a movement that, albeit within the constitutional arch, has always acted as a revolutionary force (pass me the term), but never thought that the institutions were untouchable and uncritical. The event, in fact, cannot be declined in a human error, it cannot be classified as the violation of the sacredness of the institutions by a servant of the same who personally wronged, betraying the institutions in this way. We of the League will never be enslaved to this misleading logic and we have the presumption that, if certain things happen, they cannot be trivialized. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Moreover, when these things happen you cannot sacrifice on the altar, as a scapegoat, only the material executor of the misdeeds. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This matter deserves deeper, more analytical reasoning, because it involves a Minister who has been considered until yesterday a real exemplary servant of the institutions. Mrs. Cancellieri, you don't want to know if we're gonna call you "Minister of Emergency." You were called to play the role of Minister of the Interior and then Minister of Justice at a dramatic historical moment. The international economic crisis has brought out the enormous weaknesses of this country's state organization and, above all, has helped to show the failure of the management of the common thing in the hands of a handful of politicians who are ruffles, arrivalists and, above all, colluded with the interests of these potentates, small and large, true architects of the destiny of our country. Minister for Emergency Affairs of the Monti Government, an unintended, unchosen, unjustified Technical Executive in its actions by a political mandate. A government that, precisely because of its constitution, should have embodied in its very high authorities, almost dispassionate with respect to the curricula that were incensed, just the same institutions betrayed by the politicians of the business. "Minister of Emergency" of the present Government of the broad understandings, appointed to the most delicate Ministry, that of justice, for the survival of this abstruse Executive. Above the parties it could have guaranteed that precarious balance between the partisan interests of the various groups that make up the colorful majority, but you, Madam Minister, with your humanity have dropped that last bulwark of resistance that justifies these operations so machinous, orchestrated from above and demanded from abroad. The hypocrisy of the parties that make up the majority of this Executive is obvious and is easily declined in the different positions that are taken, in the distinctions that are made within the same groups, up to the official positions that are declared by the members of the Government. You, Madam Minister, have shown your solidarity as a woman, as a friend, as a mother to your dear friends invested in a very heavy judicial affair. Like a mom didn't go into the subject matter, but she made herself willing to do something anyway. And this is very serious, Minister, it is very serious! Let us ask ourselves what would have happened if a legist, a predecessor of his, perhaps the Minister of Justice Castelli, had made it. Do you think, Madam Minister, that you would not resign by now? You said that all this was done for dozens of prisoners: don't you think it's an assault? All this just to keep vexing the poor citizens. Madam Minister, what has happened to us is only yet another proof of what we have said since the moment our country was finally handed over into the hands of the strong powers, first with the operation of the Government of the technicians and then with that of the Government of the broad understandings. So, we stigmatize what happened not as a single mistake, but as your failure. Your speech didn't convince us. We are now asking you to step back and restore transparency to all the institutions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u39	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u40	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we at the Civic Choice - all of us - believe that the arguments that Minister Chancellors has developed are convincing. The words of the chief prosecutor of Turin, Giancarlo Caselli, who denied any interference, confirming the Minister's version, have already given a fundamental contribution of clarity. But here, the Minister has shown that he has not committed any abuse, not interfering in the activity of the judicial authority and limiting himself, in the case of Giulia Ligresti, to an alert to the DAP, which, as we have found, followed similar interventions also for many other prisoners. The Minister has provided Parliament with all the information necessary to confirm the absence of incorrect profiles in its behaviour and there is no reason why Minister Chancellors cannot continue his appreciated work in a strategic field for the life of the country. There's nothing here to minimize and nothing to hide. This was made clear by Dr. Francesco Cascini, deputy head of the DAP, at the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera). I quote: "He pointed out to me the case of the younger daughter Giulia, telling me that she was very concerned, because she was a person who had anorexia problems. From what was known, his health conditions were deteriorating, and he feared that he might let go of desperate gestures or self-harm. But Cascini immediately adds that that phone call was not unusual: Since she settled, she has dedicated herself with particular attention to the problems of prison, and with her or with the head of her secretariat we feel almost every day. Just as almost every day reports come about prisoners with particular problems; often also from the Minister's office, with an autograph by the Guardasigilli: "For Cascini, what can we do?". They are usually the most serious or painful cases. It is these attentions that, according to the deputy director of the DAP, demonstrate the unfoundedness of the theorem on the series A prisoners, followed on the basis of high-ranking indications, and B-series prisoners, abandoned to themselves. For me receiving the report, Cascini explained, "it doesn't change anything, I have to check the situation and take, if necessary, the necessary initiatives." Even for Giulia Ligresti, if it were necessary, Cascini concludes, "it would be absurd the opposite." That would be absurd. It is no wonder, however, that the case before us has caused much debate, has fueled suspicion, and even the public's annoyance. Italian prisons are - and certainly not because of Minister Cancellieri - a place of suffering, a place of abandonment and degradation. The poorest, weakest and lonely inmates, who have no good lawyers, no good friends, are the ones who suffer the hardest from prison, as well as frequenting it more and staying there often when it is possible to leave. We who do not think at all - and I repeat clearly - that Minister Cancellieri has abused his power or, as some think, even "freed" an inmate to whom he was indirectly linked by reasons of friendship; we who think the Minister has done well also understand that the story, told in this way, can appear (and to many perhaps will continue to appear) more true and more credible. The Minister was right to intervene, we repeat: not doing so would have been a serious omission. But it is not wrong to say that a system that repairs inefficiencies with personal reports - which end up appearing, even when they are not, forms of undue recommendation - is always meant to leave someone out of the protections due to everyone. It is ridiculous to say that it would be preferable or more civil an equal denial of conditions of law for all prisoners. But the task of the institutions - our task, the Minister, the Parliament, the prison administration - is to create the conditions for all prisoners to be given what is their responsibility, not to remedy, on a case-by-case basis, the impossibility of guaranteeing the rights of each of them under law and justice. We therefore want to take this opportunity to relaunch our reformist commitment. There are many things, Minister, that you are trying hard to change, but we must do more. Perhaps it is time to proceed with the establishment of the National Guarantor for the protection of the fundamental rights of prisoners and persons deprived of personal freedom. Even in Albania, the Ombudsman collects reports from anyone who is deprived of his freedom and then carries out investigations and inspections; when a violation is established, he does exactly what the Minister has done: he recommends who is competent for a careful assessment of the case. Not to mention that the Cattaneo Institute has documented that, from the point of view of overcrowding, the situation in which Italian prisons are located today is worse than that in which they were at the end of the last century and that the aggression compared to other European democracies has grown dramatically in this decade. And there is a factor that shows a decisive difference between these countries: this factor is the proportion of prisoners awaiting judgment on the total number of prisoners. This quota has an exceptional size in Italy: in 2013 Italy recorded a quota of 36.5%, compared with 25.3% in France, 17.3% in Germany, 14.5% in Spain and 12.9% in the United Kingdom. This data would be enough to deny the view that justice would not be a priority issue except for Berlusconi and to justify the effort of all of us to treat the issue of justice as if Berlusconi were not there. There is no doubt that someone, outside or within the majority, intends to use this controversy to shake the government. But our debate cannot be reduced to this. There's a lot more at stake. You, Minister, said: I'm responsible for the life of prisoners, I've moved for the risk of suicide. And we look to you with constant confidence so that the life of prisoners has more certainty of being protected, confirming what you called the institutional esteem of the Civic Choice Group. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the statement that you made a call for humanitarian reasons may be questionable, but it is certainly not scandalous in itself; indeed, we hope that humanity - this precious quality that is lacking today, and that it would certainly have avoided a case such as that of Shalabayeva to its colleague Alfano - will be applied to the hundreds of cases of incompatibility with prison or to the problems that we are sure you will deal with personally. It is equally true that his phone call did not influence DAP's behavior and probably, precisely for this reason, the core of the issue is highlighted. You, Madam Minister, have moved out of friendship and made yourself fully available to a family that has a very heavy judicial history, with which a prefect before and a Minister of Justice should not have personal relations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I suppose you didn't miss the fact that here we are talking about a family whose patron Don Salvatore, was defined by the Cassazione "persona ad usato alla corruzione e al venale interlaczo con public administrators and politicians of rank". A man and his family that she has been with for decades and which for decades has been at the heart of Italian finance, condemned for bribes already more than fifteen years ago, when she had to leave the presidency of SAI because it lacked requirements of good repute. The affairs of the Ligresti have ruined thousands of savers of Premafin, of Milano Assicurazioni, of Fondaria; they have destroyed two large and prestigious insurances (a secure business, for which you really have to commit not to earn); they have lost the job to employees, to employees of the groups; they have forced to recapitalize small shareholders (common people, not workers) that are now found with rag paper in hand. And he and his family kept the money. I mean, a gangster in finance with politicians, chores, and power. I do not want to spend your time listing the wrongdoing of these gentlemen who are to the honour of the judicial chronicle; today they are finally investigated and under trial for the incommensurable economic damage done to the Italian system. Yet, Ligresti is here, everyone's friend. The Ligresti have friends both on the right (the dynasty of La Russa) and on the left, especially now that with the merger Fonsai-Unipol is realized a marriage between the "bank-cards" of the center-right parties and center-left, just like the broad understandings that go on stage in this legislature [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We find this unique too. It is true when we say "mal comuni mezzo gaudio": no one in this Italy of mutual friendships and common affairs feels - let's say - at least a discomfort in having certain frequentations. Maybe that's why too many people in here seem normal to spend as a minister recommending prejudiced friends, and that's why it's just us of the 5 Star Movement who are asking for resignation. Relationships are close not only for friendships, but also for those of its relatives. If it is true that his son, Gianfraco Peluso, was CEO of Fonsai and is now auditioned as a witness in the matter (so he is not involved criminally, and this does not necessarily show a conflict of interest), it is also true that certain relationships should at least cause doubt of their correctness. They should be irritated, perceived as inconvenient; we should all regard as dangerous the blackmailing position that it can achieve. Here, on the other hand, it is assumed that it is normal, indeed daily practice, since your son, who left Fonsai, entered Telecom while you signed millionaire agreements with the same company to renew a monstrous waste of public money such as that of the bracelets to prisoners [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It will not clearly be a conflict of interest or prosecutable, but it is not even a normal thing. As it is not normal that the children of two important figures in the investigation - the president of ISVAP, Giancarlo Giannini, and the former president of CONSOB, Lamberto Cardia - were also employed by Salvatore Ligresti. Such family ties, even if they are not illegal, are at least to be avoided if they are in control positions and require impartiality. Can a Minister of Justice (the goddess blindfolded with the balance in her hand) make himself available, as you said in the interception, to an entire family for which your son has also worked and who is arrested for very serious crimes? You can't. I don't think he can. And above all it reveals that the fabric of power in Italy is an unhealthy interweaving between politics, banks, finance, various workers, state officials that should be definitively reclaimed and made unassailable by blackmail and family interests. Mrs. Minister, given the claim you made of your integrity, you should begin to set a good example and resign. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u43	Senator Schifani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u44	Mr Minister, we will not ask for your resignation, but we will invite you to continue with your commitment. I would very briefly like to make a historical summary of the story that involves you, and I would like to remind this House that the phone call you mentioned was not a call from a personal initiative of yours towards a friend, but was not a call from a friend of yours. This is very important, in my opinion, in order to provide a picture, to outline well the context within which some expressions are used by her. It was a family conversation between two esteemed people, who evidently have known each other for a long time and are shown affection. You have shown solidarity with a person affected by a matter of justice, solidarity with a person whose relative, afflicted with anorexia (he was before everyone's eyes, they talked about it all the newspapers), did not eat for weeks, refused food and risked dying. On that occasion, you said that you would do everything in your power: we obviously mean institutional possibilities, and that is all. That is the meaning of this expression, which is then reflected in its institutional intervention in a structure of the Ministry, the DAP, which is not known to be a Member of the European Parliament to decide on whether or not to accept the requests for release or on measures relating to freedom. The Department is rather responsible for monitoring the state of health and quality of life of prisoners, transfers and is a structure that depends hierarchically on the Ministry of Justice. You addressed that Department, precisely, to ask for information on the state of health of the Ligresti, as you have done so many other times - you yourself have said so - about other prisoners. This is the episode within which the story that concerns her must be circumscribed. And to me, as a guarantee, I am very sorry that the debate has then deepened until it involves family issues. She is honored that she had the courage of a mother to talk about her son. We would never have asked you, Minister, to talk about your son: this culture does not belong to us. [[Applause from the PdL and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] The attorney of Turin has then clarified in a comprehensive and linear way that the procedure relative to the release of the Ligresti has not suffered at all any interference from anyone. This is another fact that we cannot fail to take into account. But I would also like to introduce another subject, ladies and gentlemen: the issue of the Ligresti must make us think about the use of preventive imprisonment under legislation that we must change. I am not talking about abuse on the part of the magistrates, I do not want to enter into controversy with the judiciary. I am just saying that the current legal framework allows the judiciary, by virtue of legal rules, to exercise discretion and prevent a person from exercising his freedom. With regard to the Ligresti affair, was there really a need to keep in prison people who no longer held social offices, in reference to whom there was neither the risk of pollution of the evidence nor the danger of escape? Was it really necessary to keep a person incarcerated who refused food? Was there a need to hold a certain Mr. Scaglia, the entrepreneur of Fastweb detained for a year and then acquitted by the natural judge, who came from abroad on a plane he had chartered (luckily he could afford it) to bring himself to justice? And this is not a problem, ladies and gentlemen, of error or not of error of the magistrates: here it is a problem of legislation. You, Madam Minister, must take charge - and I ask you on behalf of my Group and on behalf of the President of my party - of taking legislative action so that the links of the possibility of restricting personal freedom in advance are as narrow as possible, because freedom is a primary asset that we must protect and to which we must look carefully. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] We in our party have always considered it the central value of existence and our party identity. It was our great battle, the battle for freedom: freedom of the individual, freedom of communication, freedom of enterprise. For us the word "freedom" is sacred and we intend to defend it in this House, as we will defend it in all the squares and in all areas in which we will be called to make policy. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] Madam Minister, you know that 40% of the current prisoners who make up the prison population are being held awaiting trial: do we want to question the seriousness and drama of this figure? Do we want to ensure that, by making our own the high appeal of the Head of State on extraordinary interventions such as those of amnesty and indult, we intervene structurally on alternative measures? We are doing this very well in the Justice Commission, but you must help us even more, if necessary through emergency measures, because there must be no delay on freedom, no hesitation when dealing with such sensitive issues, Madam Minister. We ask her to take charge of this: to pay more and more attention - and we recognize this particular propensity - to the prison situation. But it is not enough: the prison situation is not soluble in a short time, through new prisons and through destructive elements such as extraordinary measures such as those to which the President of the Republic referred. We must have courage, we must say: now enough, let us reform, let us make sure that, if the citizen in advance must be deprived of freedom, he must be deprived of serious, binding, unavoidable elements, so irrefutable as to leave in our consciences the awareness that, if that event was realized, that is, if a person of freedom, autonomy and identity was deprived (because, believe me colleagues, who is in Italian prisons sometimes loses respect for his identity, precisely because of the quality of our prisons), this was absolutely necessary. So, let's make sure all this can be revisited by you carefully, even in an emergency. We'll be on your side. Good work, Minister. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u45	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u46	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, you were prefect of Vicenza, Bergamo, Brescia, Catania and Genoa, and you were also Commissioner of the Government in Parma and Bologna. They have always been recognized, without distinctions of political part, professional competence, balance, sense of state and personal correctness. As Minister of the Interior and Justice, he has received frequent and solid appreciations. I remember all this just because each of us has the right to see his actions read also in the framework of his life and what good or bad he has done over the years. Minister Chancellors well knows that in democracy the behaviour of the Government is always exposed to the impiety of public opinion. I add: merciless, but referring to real responsibilities. Some reconstructions have associated the Minister Chancellors with the vices of the worst relationship economy that still damage Italy and others have implied his influence on the effects of a contract signed by his son many months before his mother was appointed Minister. These facts are completely unrelated to his responsibility. I agree with the Minister Chancellors on his regret for the phone call of July 17 to Mrs. Gabriella Fragni, whose contents were with improper evidence. With regard to that conversation, of which we know only fragments and which we therefore interpret with difficulty, I listened with pleasure to his words and his regret for not having used that institutional detachment that would have been necessary. But let us come to the point, Madam Minister, and precisely to the warning to the penitentiary administration of the serious state of health of Giulia Ligresti, detained not because condemned, but because in protective custody. Magistrate Alfredo Cascini publicly explained the episode and its context. He himself, over the last year, has sent the prison directors a total of 1,200 requests on the difficult conditions of individual prisoners and has moved for direct knowledge or for the reporting of relatives of prisoners, of rights guarantors, radicals and even of Quirinale. It is likely - I hope so - that many Members of this House have also pointed out to the Minister prison tragedies of their knowledge. Very often he did so, as was his duty, even the Minister Chancellors. It was not the case in favour of Giulia Ligresti that she was the only one reporting difficult and sensitive cases, and we have just received confirmation from her in the Chamber that she has intervened whenever she has had the chance. At this point, Minister, Parliament has a question to ask: on 19 August the Minister had to omit the alert (repeat: reporting and not pressure) for the fact that Giulia Ligresti, a serious anorexic and since the previous 6 August judged in danger of life by the medical examiner, was daughter and nephew of her friends? Did he have to be disinterested because of that? I don't believe that. The judges Cascini and Caselli (I quote them by name for the esteem they enjoy) have declared that they do not respond to truth that they have been interested in the case of Giulia Ligresti as a friend of the Minister Chancellors. The attorney Caselli - she has remembered - has declared that everything demonstrates in a unique and incontrovertible way that the concession of the house arrests to Giulia Ligresti has happened exclusively on the basis of the convergence of decisive objective circumstances. Dr. Cascini pointed out that, at the time of the Minister's report, the case was already known and followed by the Department and that, if it had not been, the DAP would certainly have taken care of it, as it tries to do in every situation at risk of which it becomes aware. For me, these statements are absolutely true. I make one last more general point. It has been pointed out that the Minister of Justice is required not as much humanitarian acts as measures to prevent and prevent the tragedies of prison. This was the content of the heartfelt message that the Head of State sent us a few days ago and to which we still owe a serious response. Parliament has a great responsibility: that of having adopted and not yet repealed legislation which has brought tens of thousands of people into our prisons (judged by Europe places of violence and systematic torture) to whom it would be much fairer to impose alternative penalties. I am sure that Minister Cancellieri will continue to fight to resolve the tragedy of Italian prisons. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, SCPI, PdL. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u47	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of Justice. We thank the Minister and the Government for their availability and presence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u48	I greet the students of the Istituto Tecnico Industriale (Industrial Technical Institute), Antonio Pacinotti, Scafati, in the province of Salerno, who followed our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, as communicated to the Conference of Leaders this morning, the Presidency Council decided on the draft budget and the final account of the Senate's revenue and expenditure. These documents will be examined today, at 6 p.m., by the President of the Budget Commission together with the Presidents of the other standing committees. The debate in this House will take place at tomorrow's afternoon sitting, which does not include closing hours. It remains confirmed that, in the afternoon session of tomorrow, the discussion of the decree-law education, university and research will begin, which will continue - until its conclusion - in the afternoon session on Thursday. The Conference of Leaders also established by a majority that the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the contested election in the Molise Region should be examined on Wednesday 27 November at the end of the budgetary session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u52	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as you have rightly pointed out, this timetable has been approved by a majority by the Heads of Groups. We have not approved it - we have already discussed it in this House - because we believe that there is all the time and space to be able to include what was necessary, namely the conclusions of the Assembly of Elections and Immunities. We could have found space this week, but since we have to examine the decree-law on school, we could easily include this subject in a sitting to be convened next week, during which - I remember - there are no meetings of the Assembly to allow the draft law of stability to be examined by the Budget Commission. It was therefore possible to include in the next week's calendar a session of the Assembly devoted to examining the decisions taken by the Assembly of Elections and Immunities. I would also remind you that at the last Conference of the Leaders it was said that it was necessary to wait for the decisions of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on voting arrangements to decide to include the debate on Senator Berlusconi's decadence on the calendar. We do not believe, Mr President, that 27 November is a good date. Many months have passed and we fear that this date will again risk slipping, since, among other things, a question has been asked by the PDL Group with reference to the regularity of the decisions of the Assembly of Elections and Immunities. For these reasons, Mr President, we will ask the House to approve a change in the timetable for the inclusion, if not this week at least, of the report of the Assembly of Elections and Immunities on the contested election in the Molise Region. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Anitori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u55	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even today we are once again forced to reiterate that the 5 Star Movement and all honest Italians demand that the Severino law, which provides for the immediate vote on the decadence, be respected. Senator Berlusconi was finally sentenced on 1 August 2013 to four years for tax fraud. It was later declared dead by the Assembly of Elections and Immunes on October 4, 2013. Today is November 5th. More than a month away, we're still plundering. We are proposed the date of November 27, after the adoption of the law of stability: a law proposed by a government that has no stability anymore. The only sure thing is the blackmail that is making a political force against not only the rest of the majority, but an entire country. In order to give further days to the criminal Berlusconi is now denied even the evidence of the facts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thanks to our tenacity, even if we were to vote, it will be a clear vote, as we would like to see clear the real intentions of those in this House, just a week ago, who claimed that the only obstacle to this vote was the decision of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the interpretation of the mode of voting itself: the Junta expressed itself unequivocally on 30 October. Now the urgency of the law of stability is used instrumentally only for dilatory purposes, because - let us remember - for the decadence of Senator Berlusconi it takes only one hour: an hour of our time to dedicate to truth and transparency; an hour that perhaps would give a signal of encouragement and hope to the Italian people, already burdened by the iniquity of the law of stability that this Executive has proposed to the nation. To make us not miss anything, how can we forget, after the words heard, the motion of individual distrust presented by the Five Star Movement towards the Minister of Justice, Dr. Anna Maria Cancelleri? Despite his justifications, his behaviour remains - in our opinion - not in accordance with the provisions of Article 54 of the Constitution, which in the second paragraph - it should be recalled - reads: The citizens to whom public functions are entrusted have the duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor. Honour sold to the Ligresti family. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Given the seriousness of the situation, we ask that the motion of individual distrust, the procedure of proceedings, should suspend all other activities of the Senate, in order in any case to be resolved by a vote of this House. In short, Mr President, our proposal to amend the timetable is as follows: today, 5 November, to discuss the decline of Senator Berlusconi; Friday, 8 November, at 9.30 a.m., to examine the motion of individual distrust to the Minister of Justice. If this proposal for transparency and common sense is not accepted, the Movement will follow the request for urgent procedure on a daily basis for the above reasons. Justice can no longer wait in our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u58	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to speak on the question of the budget, but first, let me say to you and to all my colleagues that the honesty licence for Italians and ours cannot be given by my fellow Senator Taverna. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] Save some judgment and leave it to the judiciary to judge whether or not we are honest citizens. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Having said that, Mr President, I would like to point out that the Senate budget was made available to the senators today, after 1 p.m., and that the deadline for the submission of agendas and any amendments would expire at 3 p.m. The Commission, moreover, has yet to express its views, and so we do not know - at least I personally - what to do. Since we are called to respond to what we approve of in this assembly, I would like to be aware of what happens and possibly make my little contribution. This was not possible today. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u61	Gasparri (PdL). Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement so that it will remain in the proceedings of our work: as you know, but perhaps not all Members of this House are aware of this, I have raised another question on several occasions, which concerns the progress of work in the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. When the Junta met to take the decisions concerning the decadence, there was a controversy about the respect or not of the secrecy of the works, since the Junta at that time performed an absolutely particular function and therefore, like a chamber of council, was required to a particular confidentiality. A number of incidents have contravened this principle. We have discussed this and you yourself - and I thank you for that - gave an accurate response to the conduct of the various Members of the Council and referred it to the Conference of Leaders. The same story was brought to the attention of the House, because its revelations were then illustrated here in the course of a speech - I remember - by Senator Calderoli. I myself asked for a meeting of the Senate Presidency to be held on an evaluation of the validity of that sitting, since it was - in my opinion, and not only my own - a procedure which, in that case, is not only a form but a substance. I see that for tomorrow - and I thank you for that - the Presidency Council has been convened on whose agenda there is an assessment of this issue. However, in giving you an account of this, I say to you that, as far as I am concerned, the decision on the timetable of proceedings is subject to a preliminary ruling. In fact, if that resolution were nothing, it could not be put on the agenda and on the agenda. That is the point of my observation, which we will discuss tomorrow, in the Presidency Council. In the event - which some may consider unlikely, but which I consider to have some basis - that the way forward was irregular, the proposal could not be discussed by the House on 27 November, because there would not be a resolution taken in a regular manner and in compliance with the secrecy procedures that that chamber of council must have. I wanted to make this observation so that it will remain in the minutes for the subsequent decisions, starting with tomorrow's Presidency Council, where I will return to discuss the events of that sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u64	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, like Senator Gasparri, I would also like to leave my opinion on the matter raised to the record. I believe that the deliberations of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities have full and complete validity; I also believe that the Presidency Council has no competence to review the validity of the decisions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections. I believe that we now need to vote correctly on the calendar and then move forward according to the work schedule for the afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u67	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, with reference to what my fellow Members have said, I would like to make it more clear what has happened today in the Presidency Council, because it is important that clarity and transparency are there on such a delicate situation. You, Mr President (and, therefore, not an official or a senator) gave us this morning the report of the meeting of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on 4 October 2013. Now, I would like to point out to my colleagues that during the Junta, as I know (I remind myself), there is a public part, where colleagues can certainly demonstrate or communicate outside, and then there is the chamber of advice in which there is the bond of secrecy; even colleagues who took part in the session on 4 October have been removed from the use of mobile phones. The chamber of council, with the bond of secret, began at 11 o'clock; during the same exactly eight colleagues violated the bond of secret and posted and communicated with the outside. I would remind all my colleagues that in Rule 31 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure as well as in the Code of Criminal Procedure it is not written that we cannot communicate with the outside world if there are arguments pertaining to the discussions of the Chamber of Council; no, tout court, absolutely we cannot communicate with the outside world. I believe that what happened in the Junta is in violation of this and that, therefore, the sitting is not valid: I repeat that there have been - and you, President, gave us a note at a formal and official sitting of the Presidency Council - eight violations of secrecy with communications outside. That is why I say that not only the Rules of Procedure of the Senate have been violated, but also the procedure that takes place in the council chamber. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u68	I would like to remind you that Senator Calderoli has already read the note delivered in the Chamber. It's the same relationship. No one seems to know it, but Senator Calderoli has read it in this House. It was about everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u71	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, in connection with the speeches by Senator Gasparri and Senator Mussolini, I would like to summarise the matter. During the Conference of Leaders, President Gasparri recalled that, at the Presidency Council, which had been concluded for a few minutes, the report on which she had read at the Conference of Leaders had not been fully addressed, and then Mr Calderoli was publicly present. That report had given rise, as you anticipated, to an investigation to be carried out by the Presidency Council on the anomaly of the behaviour of some Members who had violated the silence to which they were bound. I am not a member of the Presidency Council, but I cannot but trust my fellow Members who are members of it, and I understand that this morning the subject has been first discussed and another subject has been put on the subject of extension of the subject, which is intended to ascertain whether the alleged violation of secrecy also affects the holding and the outcome of the work of the Council. We are in a free parliamentary democracy and the Presidency Council is the maximum body for the internal functioning of the Senate, and it deals with disciplinary procedures. This matter has been put to the vote and has been postponed to another sitting. At the Conference of Leaders, I had made it clear to the President that it would be an opportunity to slip the timetable in the light of the fact that the objection of President Gasparri and others about the validity or otherwise of the Junta could be subordinated to the outcome of the Presidency Council: this proposal was not accepted, not least because the Presidency considers that it is not the responsibility of the Presidency to validate the work of the Junta. I have been allowed to say to myself and my colleagues at the Conference of the Leaders that, perhaps, it would be preferable and desirable for the Presidency to decide on its competence, and not the Presidency: it must be a collegiate body that declares itself competent or incompetent on the subject before it. We have therefore faced each other, and the President has anticipated that he will shortly convene the Presidency Council to continue... PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency Council is convened tomorrow, at 3 p.m., as Senator Gasparri said. Mr Schifani (PdL). We acknowledge this and thank you. This is a sensitive issue; we will follow it with great care and a sense of responsibility, because, Mr President, it is not an instrumental issue. You have been a distinguished magistrate and you know better the rules of law than I do. We want to verify two points within the Presidency Council: whether or not the Presidency has competence to invalidate the work of the Council or not, and the results which have been determined in the light of certain members' known violations of secrecy, because, from that report, which you read at the Conference of the Leaders and Mr Calderoli in this House, we know that there have been violations, and I believe that there is no dispute in this regard. It is necessary to check whether these violations, which have been apparent, have affected the work of the Council. Mr President, we therefore thank you for convening the Presidency of tomorrow, but we assure everyone who listens to us that we will be vigilant and intransigent about decisions and their effects. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u74	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I do not speak on this matter because I am somehow directly involved. I only intervene to give information to my colleagues. I understand that computer tools are not in your direct availability. [[Comments from the PdL Group]] From the speeches I have heard, at least from those who have spoken, and from the reasons given I have sensed a certain ignorance, in the sense of the term of ignoring, because by violation of secrecy it is intended to communicate with the outside world. Now, anyone who is familiar with Facebook and Twitter tools knows first of all - I say it for your knowledge - that you can schedule for time the day and time when a post comes out. [[Comments from the PdL Group]] I remember the tragic fact that today I was reminded of a boy who committed suicide: the day after his death a Facebook post came out, which he had planned, in which he described the modalities. You must know the computer tools well before you look for the hair in the egg! The surgery is very instrumental. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u75	Senator Crimes, this is a matter of merit that will be addressed at the appropriate location. We will also seek to acquire further knowledge of computer science, telematics and network connections.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u77	He has the right to do so, even though one Senator per Group was expected to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u78	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I just wanted to give you and your fellow senators some quick thoughts. Senator Mussolini and, before her, Senator Gasparri made a clear reference to Rule 31 of the Rules of Procedure, which concerns the total or partial secrecy of the work of a Commission, and both referred to the fact that, starting at 11 a.m. on 4 October 2013, the Council Chamber began within the Assembly of the elections. After that time some posts on Facebook or anything else were recorded from people who were engaged in the board room exactly to reach the resolution. It seems to me, Mr President, that the problem is twofold: whether or not the posts that started from that chamber violated the content of the debate (if this had happened there would be no problem with the violation of secrecy), but what I would like to point out more to you, Mr President, and to my fellow senators is that the procedure to which the conduct of the chamber of council must be aligned has certainly been violated. As we have repeatedly said, the Chamber of Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys mutuals its procedure from the Chamber of Council of a Court of Justice; in this respect, I must not remind you, Mr President, that Article 125 (4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, related to the implementing provisions, lays down very clearly the solitude of the judges when they go to the deliberations: which means that the judges, when they enter the Chamber of Council, have a clear fracture with the outside, going out or going in. From this point of view, Mr President and Senators, it is clear from the minutes of the election committee that this relationship with the outside world had not at all ceased, in fact, regardless of the planned posts referred to by Senator Crimi, there was a continuous, definitely outgoing, relationship with the outside world during the Council Chamber. But that outgoing channel was also suitable and enabled to enter news from the outside to the inside, which, in my opinion, undoubtedly represents a serious violation of the procedures governing the works of the council chamber. From this point of view, I must not remind you, Mr President, of the case law of the Supreme Court to say how the violation of that procedure is bound inevitably to reappear on the decision of the Junta, clearly electrocuting it of nullity. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u79	Colleagues, let us now proceed to the vote on the proposed changes to the timetable. Other issues raised by Senator Gasparri in anticipation of tomorrow's sitting of the Presidency Council are those on which the speakers have spoken. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings, tabled by Senator Taverna, to include on the agenda of today's sitting the debate on the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and to hold a meeting of the Assembly on Friday 8 November, at 9.30 a.m., for the discussion of the motion of individual distrust of the Minister of Justice. It's not approved. Let's do the counter-test by checking out the opposing senators. I confirm that the amendment is not adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u82	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr. President, I'm missing a ride. Pursuant to Rule 114 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the counter-test you referred to shall be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I didn't mean a counterproof under the Rules of Procedure. I only asked for a check on the senators against the proposal. SANTANGELO (M5S). So, given that it was a passage that caused some confusion, I would ask you, if possible, to proceed with the counter-test. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u83	There's no confusion. I used the term counterproof improperly, and so I withdraw it. Thank you, however, for your clarification. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable presented by Senator De Petris, which is intended to include on the agenda for a sitting next week the debate on the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, for which no date has been given. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I propose Tuesday next week. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall put this proposal to the vote. It's not approved. The timetable as laid down therefore remains final.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u86	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, since I saw a number of people moving while the doors of this House were open, I would ask you to proceed with the counterproof under Rule 114 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Comments from PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u87	Thank you for your request, but there is no need for counterproof, because the Secretary Senators have also realized the goodness of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u90	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday it was released... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u91	Just a moment, Senator Blondo. I call on the senators to leave the Chamber in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u92	BLUNDO (M5S). Yesterday, an official European Parliament dossier was released, in which, in no uncertain terms, we denounce the misuse of the EUR 497 million from the European Solidarity Fund, allocated to provide temporary housing for displaced persons for the earthquake of 6 April 2009 and used to finance activities of an illegal and criminal nature, as stated by the rapporteur of the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, Søndergaard... (Brussio). Mr President, that is not the way to speak. That's impossible. President. - The debate is closed. If you like, stop waiting for colleagues to flow. BLUNDO (M5S). Thank you, because it is impossible to speak under these conditions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on those who have to leave the Chamber to do so with some urgency so that Mrs Blundo can finish her speech. BLUNDO (M5S). At last the waste of public money for the cost of durable housing, equal to 150 percent of the market price, is contested, highlighting also the poor quality and the potential dangerousness of the materials used. Some... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Blondo, so it's not possible. Colleagues, I invite you to go out in silence, otherwise it is not possible for Senator Blundo to carry out his speech. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] BLUNDO (M5S). Thank you, by the way, I think this is a very serious thing, which they would do well to listen to. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They would do well, but if they do not want to do so, at least they will flow silently and allow you to carry out your speech BLUNDO (M5S). So it ends by doing its duty. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. They've done their duty now. BLUNDO (M5S). Unfortunately. We take note. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. The citizens have taken note. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue. Let's hope that's possible now. BLUNDO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. I said that the waste of public money for the cost of durable housing, equal to 150 percent of the market price, was contested, also highlighting the poor quality and potential danger of the materials used. Some buildings have been evacuated by judicial order because they are dangerous and unhealthy. While medialy the image of an effective resolution for L'Aquila has been built, the citizens have been living for four years constant hardships due to the structural precariousness of the buildings, as well as the malfunctioning of the plants. In addition, they were obliged not to depart without prior declaration. They are often transferred of accommodation according to the new structures of the family. They are paying rents and contributions for ordinary and extraordinary maintenance. These days they are subject to a census of checks on payments not to lose the allocation of housing, despite the fact that the homes destroyed and lost their jobs have not been rebuilt. For years, citizens and eagle movements have been denouncing the lack of transparency in the management of reconstruction funds. As the management of the funds presented and presented a large number of shadow areas, I tabled a draft law with my Group on 11 April setting up a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Reconstruction in L'Aquila. On 15 May this draft law was assigned to the Environment Commission, but it has not yet been scheduled in spite of my constant requests in that forum. To this is added the attempt in the law of stability to move the funds initially allocated to the public building in favor of the private one, despite the number of the housing of the plan CASE is the same of the residential building of the ATER and the Municipality not completely rebuilt. This is why the citizens protested in front of the Abruzzo Region this morning. As elected citizens and as Movement we will be present at the Eagle Saturday to ensure the legality and transparency of the transfer that we now want to make of the 2.25 billion euros, initially planned for the construction of the TAV Turin-Lion, already allocated in the law of stability 2012, to the reconstruction of the territory of Eagle and the seismic crater, as repeatedly requested by us. The funds are needed to rebuild but, above all, the Eagle needs a fairer management of resources able to restart the city and the territory. In view of this and what Mr Søndergaard has said, my aim is to urge the Presidency once again to ensure that the draft law in question is urgently incardinated. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u95	FALANGA (PdL). Madam President, it has been over a month since Senator Caliendo, the rapporteur for draft law No 580, made his report in this House. Since then, there has been no more news of this bill. It is a measure of which I, again at this moment, for the second time, urge the calendarization, given that there is so much talk of sensitivity. Even yesterday morning, in fact, a house of necessity of 80 square meters was demolished, in the Municipality of Cardito, while maybe there is a building or the second or third vacation home of a citizen. The measure in question only serves to give a graduation and an indication to the proxy offices. For the truth, many proxy offices themselves already adopt this criterion, but there are some prosecutors who do not intend to adapt to this criterion. My request is in particular addressed to the Senators of the 5 Star Movement. Why them? Because, as the law of stability is currently under discussion, it is not possible to schedule legal measures which do not apply to this matter except through the unanimity of the Groups. Since the measure was dismissed by the Commission with the vote in favour of all the Groups except for the 5 Star Movement, which, however, in expressing the contrary vote, nevertheless shared the content of the measure; considering, moreover, that this measure does not involve a commitment of expenditure (which would prevent its calendarization and approval), I appeal to the Senators of the 5 Star Movement to ensure that at the Conference of the Leaders unanimity, so that this measure can be discussed in the Chamber, and perhaps, the day after tomorrow or in 15 days, we will avoid that once again the house of a family that has built it with its own savings, and that instead the houses of the camorristi and the second houses of vacation remain standing. We would avoid this injustice in injustice. I appeal to you to allow, with your vote, that would complete that unanimity, this measure to come to this House and give an answer to the many citizens who were so wrong 20 years ago, but to whom we cannot remove the house today. The sentences will be executed but, since the resources for the destructions are minimal, it seems right that the house of those who have built it with illicit proceeds (and I am referring to the criminal organizations, to those who speculated, plotted and rented the house) and then, possibly, those who built it for the needs of their family.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u98	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, in these days we have become aware that the decree of the doing, which was converted into law by this Senate in August, has not yet seen the enactment of its implementing decrees, in particular with reference to the possibility, for those who are liable to the State, public institutions or institutions, to pay by instalments, as precisely provided for in this decree. Now, since three months have passed since August, and we really do not understand why the Ministry still has to bring to the evidence of Equitalia the method of payment that has been indicated by this Parliament, it is assumed and it is assumed that the reason lies in a systematic dilution over time the modalities with which it proceeds from the legislative point of view with the relative implementing decrees, or for this specific case they have considered difficulties of economic character. In any case, just for the honesty we owe to those outside this Parliament and who expect from this Parliament a legislative model that is effective and efficient in relation to the needs of the country, that this model will then have to win the war on the impossibility of issuing implementing decrees seems particularly heavy, since this would at this point be a decisive mockery for citizens and businesses who expect the laws to become immediately applicable and cannot and should not wait months. I made this speech at the end of the sitting, anticipating the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Saccomanni, who I will also ask with a written question, but given the urgency, I repeat, of a situation that in many cases can foresee for someone the possibility of maintaining faith in a commitment, thanks to the installment that has been indicated, for others the impossibility to maintain faith in that commitment because the installment that normally prescribes Equitalia is very reduced in time, and in any case inferior to the year (as opposed to the one deliberated by us, that reaches about ten years of possible installments), I think it is worth being very determined to provide immediately for the enactment of the decree on this norm of the decree of the doing. [[Applause from Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u99	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-134.ana.u100	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, November 6, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 and the second at 16, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.54 p.m.
