ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 25 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u3	The next item is questions to be answered immediately (so-called question time) on questions relating to hydrogeological failure and waste management, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Orlando. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. Let us turn to questions on questions relating to hydrogeological failure. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u6	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to put forward an issue which, as a Democratic Party, we have developed on a first-signed motion by President Zanda, because the issue of hydrogeological failure is today a national problem, not only a regional one, which can no longer be made part of the logic of the emergency, given both the frequency of events and the seriousness of the consequences on the affected territories, connected as is also with the climate change to which we are subjected. This logic, Minister, must be replaced by that of the prevention and security of the territory, the only real roads to be followed, also with a view to the intelligent and effective use of resources. At present, however, almost all the interventions for the protection of the soil carried out in our country are structural interventions of passive defense that in terms of cost and effectiveness have proved not fully satisfactory. We therefore hope that a modern strategy of adaptation and mitigation to climate change and risks will be based, of course, on works, but limiting them to those that are truly indispensable, and will be directed towards an approach that is more in tune with natural processes, linking objectives of redevelopment of the river ecosystem to the reduction of hydraulic risk and hydrogeological failure. With this in mind, we very much appreciated your intervention in the Environment Commission on the policy lines of your Dicastery, which highlighted the need to reduce hydrogeological risk and the return to an active policy of soil protection. Among the commitments that I hope the Government will accept, I want to emphasize, in particular, the adoption of policies that, by contrast to the phenomenon of land abandonment, deforestation and therefore the improductivity of the land, especially the Apennines, recognize the strategic value of agriculture as garrison and instrument that favors the ordinary maintenance of the territory. For these reasons I ask you, Minister, if and when your Dicastery intends to set up a national strategy... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u7	I'm sorry, Senator, but for this procedure time is absolutely not dilatable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u10	MARINELLO (PdL). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over 6,000 Italian municipalities are present in areas at risk of hydrogeology, 82% of the total; a fragility that affects several regions: Calabria, Molise, Basilicata, Umbria, Valle d'Aosta and the Province of Trento, where as many as 100% of the municipalities are classified as at risk. The size, among other things, is about 30,000 square kilometers, so about 10% of the national territory, and as many as 5 million of our fellow citizens find themselves every day in areas exposed to landslides and floods. From these numbers comes the need to reflect carefully in order to develop decisive paths able to respond effectively to the repeated emergencies connected to the hydrogeological risk in our country, emergencies that now occur systematically every autumn, and not only, due to a lack of adequate policy of prevention and government of the territory. As a result of this premise, I would like to ask you what preventive policies you are already imagining about the whole matter. How does your Dicastery plan to deal with these probable, possible (let us make the beggars that there are no) emergencies? And above all, how much do they amount to and where are the necessary resources available for this strategic programme?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u13	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, Minister, in Italy we have 30,000 square kilometres of highly critical hydrogeological areas for over 6,000 municipalities. A huge problem as enormous are the problems of widespread seismicity, influenced by the sliding of the sods due to the drift of the continents. To this is added and connected the need to safeguard water resources, soils and seas from the risks of pollution. We want to know from the Minister whether he agrees with us on the need to undertake a legislative path aimed at protecting against environmental damage caused by drilling, which - proven by authoritative and independent studies - is connected with the high risk of induced seismicity and pollution of land, air and water. Water is more precious than oil and not replaceable unlike oil. When we compromised an aquifer, we lost everyone's wealth forever. Non-conventional oil, what we are looking for, scratching the bottom of the barrel no longer in the desert areas, but close to the inhabited centres on aquifer charging areas (in Basilicata there are as many as 8 platforms), in areas with known seismic risk and high risk of tectonic energy accumulated or a few hundred meters from hospitals, bitter and heavy oil has increasing costs and decreasing net energy with incalculable environmental costs. The damage obviously comes not only from the eventual accident, which would cause a certain environmental disaster, but from the activity itself; they cause damage from the inspection activities, which are carried out with controlled microexplosions to which they must follow reflected signals, harmful to marine fauna; with the muds and perforation fluids, that to weigh down, to go deeper to search, are loaded with substances even very dangerous, of which the companies are not obliged to declare the composition, and attention, we read from the report of the ENI at the same time that the losses are frequent, ordinary, and with the disposal, for a barrel there are 10 barrels of waste... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u16	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, last May large areas of Veneto were again hit by floods. There has been a death, numerous displaced families, hundreds of millions of euros of damage to homes, productive activities and collective goods such as roads and hydraulic works. There is one aspect on which I would like to know the opinion of the Minister for the Environment. A study commissioned by the Veneto Region has recently confirmed the opportunity and feasibility of a draining canal on the track of the old project of Padua-Venice hydrovia, already largely expropriated for hydraulic purposes, capable of conveying part of the Brenta water into the lagoon, starting from Vigonovo to the south-east of Padua. Such channel would have at least four advantages: it would protect the territories of Padua and Vicenza and part of the Venetian from the flood of the Brenta and the Bacchiglione, regarding which the works to date previewed are not able to cope in case of fillings similar to those of 1966; it would contrast the erosive phenomena that are interested part of the lagoon of Venice; it would guarantee a relief to the agriculture of the Venetian in case of drought; it could finally be an important step towards the realization of the Padua-Venice hydrovia, economically valid in case of construction of the offshore port of the Alto Adriatico. For the realization of the work, which costs between 200 and 300 million euros - less than a twentieth of the Mose system and much less than the hydraulic damage of the last three years in the provinces of Padua and Vicenza - it is also possible to access the European funds, but it is necessary an action agreed between the Veneto Region and the State. Does the Government intend to support the implementation of this strategic work for the hydraulic safety of one of the richest and densely inhabited areas of our country?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u19	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, as has already been said, it is established that more than 80% of Italian municipalities fall into areas classified as potential hydrogeological risk. Annually, and even the recent past has witnessed this, there are environmental disasters, landslides, landslides and floods with loss of human lives and significant social and economic burdens. For this reason, Minister, I ask you what urgent initiatives you intend to take, even of a regulatory nature, in order to implement a structural plan for the financing of interventions against hydrogeological risk and for the protection of the soil which, in the first place, favour the logic of prevention compared to that of emergency management; secondly, unblock the resources already foreseen in the last legislature from the programme agreements signed with the regions for the priority interventions of prevention of hydrogeological failure; thirdly, involve the local authorities and the regions for the implementation of the interventions; finally, with regard to the resources coming from the State, from the regions and those own of the local authorities, provide for the exclusion from the constraints of the Internal Stability Pact of the expenditures intended for the prevention, maintenance of the territory and the fight against hydrogeological failure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u22	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the figures are very critical, well-known and well-known. There are 6,600 municipalities affected by hydrogeological risk in very serious, serious and less serious forms. Unfortunately, only in the last three years the state has allocated EUR 1 billion for emergencies caused by hydrogeological risk. For prevention, however, only 2 billion have been allocated in 10 years. These figures, Minister, tell us that an extraordinary plan against hydrogeological risk, which has been announced several times but which, as you know, is struggling to move forward, cannot be postponed at all. We therefore ask to know how we intend to spend the 2 billion resources allocated by CIPE in 2012 and therefore how we intend to coordinate interventions on the territory and if it is not considered necessary to implement the revision of the objective law in order to identify the works that, within the plan against hydrogeological risk, represent the priority for our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u24	You have the right to do so. Barani (GAL). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is asked whether he considers it appropriate to reconstitute the Directorate-General for the Protection of the Soil, considering the increasingly precarious situations facing our country in the field of hydrogeological failure, as my fellow senators said before, and also in the light of the Community directive, which provides for an integrated approach to water and soil problems, since by a special decree the former Minister had wished to unify in a single megadirection the competences relating to waste, reclamation, water and soil, entrusting it to person, among other things, without suitable titles, as recognised by the ordinary judiciary. It is also asked, given that the Forest Body of the State deals with the control of abuses, that the Civil Protection deals with emergencies and that the reclamation consortia have a widespread territorial presence throughout Italy and since the financial law for 2008 has provided for a series of provisions for their reorganization, to improve its functioning and to reduce its costs, since they had become real "stipendifici", why not predict that these consortia will be restructured with their own functions, in order to be used in a useful and effective way for the hydrogeological control of the Italian territory? Therefore, Minister, it is necessary to intervene from the heart, that is, the Ministry, to the consortia, that is to say the capillaries, in order to try to solve the hydrogeological disasters: our own land, the Lunigiana (both, Minister, in fact, we come from that historical land), is the proof of what happens in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u27	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Madam President, Minister, I wanted to obtain clarification from you on the problem of so-called land and excavation rocks, because more regulatory action has been taken in this period. Decree-Law No 69 of 2013, the so-called decree of the doing, currently under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies, contains a provision aimed at simplifying the use of land and excavation rocks, clarifying the cases where it is necessary to use the procedures prescribed by Regulation No 161 of 2012. In particular, the procedures laid down in that decree are proportionate to the excavation materials produced in the so-called large works, whereas they may be excessively burdensome and disproportionate to those produced in smaller yards. Therefore, it was considered to limit the application of these procedures to activities or works subject to environmental impact assessment or integrated environmental authorisation. Since, in the meantime, Decree-Law No. 43 of 2013 on emergencies has become law (Law No. 71 of 2013) and the provision contained in Article 8‐ bis, which I myself have handled, paragraph 2 avoids small yards from incurring European infringements and fills the legislative gaps that paragraph 1 would have determined, I ask her if she intends to amend the subsequent Decree-Law No. 69 of 2013, since it is considered that paragraph 2‐ bis, added to article 184‐ bis of Legislative Decree No. 152 of 2006 is not alone sufficient to clarify the regime applicable to lands and rocks from excavation outside the case considered by it. Moreover, since the draft law on tax and administrative simplifications provides, among other things, for the simplification of environmental legislation, referred to in Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 (in addition, in my amendment I had specified: pending environmental simplification), I ask you how you intend to proceed with the better coordination of the legislation approved in the matter in question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Orlando, Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Land and the Sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to divide the issues raised into three major issues (the question of resources; the structure of intervention, the institutional chain and the qualified entities; the actions that the Ministry is promoting) and then try to respond to the more specific issues that have been posed. You will excuse me if I do so in a very schematic way, given the limited time. I would like to remind you, as a premise, that the budget of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, from 2004 to 2011 has been reduced by 48% and that since the start of the financing of Law No 183 of 1989 on the protection of the soil has occurred what will then represent one of the recurring problems, which has also reappeared in recent months: the mix between the funds used for prevention and those destined for post-event repair. The funds initially allocated, amounting to 1,000 million euros, were partly diverted to cope with the calamitous events that occurred in some Italian regions and then reset by successive financial maneuvers. To date, the total value of the agreements signed, considering the state FAS resources destined by the 2010 Finance Act as budget and made available to the Ministry and regional resources, is equal to 2,075,000,000 euros, for more than 1,500 actions financed, divided into further functional excerpts. The overall picture of the accounting situation of the programme agreements, in January 2013, reveals that, thanks to its own budgetary resources, the Ministry of the Environment has been able to provide to the implementing entities, from 2010 until today, 544 million euros, compared to 814 million euros. However, the Regions did not respond with equal urgency to the common need to make their resources available, as agreed at the stage of agreements. The problems arising from the constraint of the Stability Pact have also naturally affected this. In fact, to a reconnaissance carried out in June 2013, it turns out that they have been transferred on the special accounts of the commissioners altogether for all the signatory regions only 140 million euros, against the 1,261 destined from the agreements concluded with the Regions themselves. Moreover, while the programme agreements with the Regions of the South Centre are now covered by the CIPE Resolution n. 8 of 2012, those signed with the Regions of the Centre-North have received only partial coverage by the CIPE Resolution n. 6 of 2012. With regard to this overall issue, what are the lines on which I believe we should move? Senator De Petris pointed out one: to identify the projects that are already objectively songable and to give them priority. The other is the remodulation of the Stability Pact. This is an issue that needs to be discussed at home, that is, in Europe, as well as the issue of modulation of European funds since 2014. At the last European Council on the environment, I raised precisely this issue with representatives of other countries: the issue of adaptation cannot be exclusively addressed in terms of limits and development constraints, which are absolutely necessary, but it must also be addressed in concrete terms in order to implement adaptation strategies. From this point of view, hydrogeological failure is one of the priorities, especially in areas historically subject to this type of phenomenon, as is Italy. The phenomenon must not be approached simply as able to produce risks, but also as one of the causes of the increase of the infrastructural gap of our country. There are not only mourning and falling houses or landslides: there are bridges, railways and highways damaged by the hydrogeological failure, which creates an increase in the gap from the infrastructural point of view, while we think of creating new works that should fill this deficit that is progressively realized. It is therefore important that, in the definition of the measures to be launched since 2014, the issue of hydrogeological failure is at the heart of the attention of decision-makers at European level and of the Commission, which I have to say here has given a first positive response. There is another aspect that I think needs to be properly addressed, and it is about prevention. From this point of view, the government approved a measure on soil consumption days ago, which is a first step in giving a structural response to the issue. The substance of this measure is as follows: it can only be built if it has previously been shown to have reused and intervened on the existing building stock. This is a principle that, if affirmed and quickly converted, even with the contribution that the Chambers will be able to make, can make a significant step forward. I add another aspect that I think is important, fundamental, and that has been asked in some questions: the hydrogeological failure, as has been pointed out, is not only contained with measures of a binding nature and interventions, but also with a constant maintenance of the territory. From this point of view, the theme of intervention on wooded areas and in agricultural areas is absolutely central. For this reason, the law, which is born with a very small skeleton, can also be the seat of a series of interventions in support of the maintenance and the profitability of the intervention on the wood and its examination can be an occasion in which Parliament can help to give a structural response to these issues. With regard to institutional supply chains, you know that there is a need for the establishment of districts in perspective, and we have already called for a meeting with the Regions to urge this transition. The districts will have the function of carrying out an institutional action according to the forecasts of the law; it is true, however, that there are subjects that historically have assumed other functions that can in part help to face the phenomenon. Senator Barani's call for a new phase and a new mission of the basin consortia, I believe, may be an important indication. With regard to drilling, I did not show any particular sympathy for this source of supply contained in the national energy strategy; however, before establishing a causal link between drilling and seismic phenomena, I believe that the incontrovertible pronunciation of scientific authorities is necessary. In this respect, I have taken action and I will take action to ensure that ISPRA expresses itself on this link, which I believe is a point on which we cannot misunderstanding. There is a need to understand whether this link actually exists and on the basis of this to give assessments of the increasing demand for drilling, to which we are currently responding simply by considering two elements: the distance from the coasts with regard to the sea and the contiguity with respect to the protected areas. If there were this additional element, it is clear that the whole regulatory framework should change, but I believe that this element should be certified by scientific authorities, which at the moment have never produced an incontrovertible evaluation in this direction. There are, of course, statements of part of the scientific world in this regard, but I believe that we must adhere to the subjects identified by law as evaluators of the possible risk. Another measure that the Ministry is taking is the definition of a fund for the reduction of building abuse in areas of hydrogeological failure. I believe that this is an important signal: it does not claim to address the whole issue of abusing, which deserves its own place of reflection and which, in my opinion, there must be a very clear indication, which I have already repeated on many occasions, but, with regard to the realities in which they combine at the same time risk and illegality, I believe that the state must put the municipalities in a position to intervene, giving a response that is also to protect the citizens. With regard to the subject of the Ministry's management and structure on the subject of hydrogeological failure, I would like to respond in an organic way by implementing the indications contained in the spending review, then supplemented by a recent rule that allows the reorganization of the Ministries on the basis of a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. In that place I believe it is right to suppose a form of organic reorganization of the Ministry and also a re-examination of the competences of the different Directorates. However, on this I reserve a passage in the relevant Commissions, because I believe that the instruments are one with the aims that are being given and the type of interventions that are being carried out. On the issue of water, I asked the competent committees of the Chamber and Senate to define an act of direction in relation to the legislative production that the Government has in mind to move forward, because I believe that we must start on the basis of a political indication on how to fill the regulatory vacuum that has occurred following the referendum. On the matter of lands and excavation rocks, I will make - excuse - a simple joke. We have taken up a rule that was already provided for in a decree, which constitutes a "climb" - we use this term - to allow organic legislation to address the issue, which is already in some way defined within the framework of the bill and which, in comparison with the Environment Commissions, I would like to lead to a more complete dimension. This is an opportunity that I do not think we should miss, because on this issue there have been many drawbacks in relation to many important investments and also numerous abuses, which have caused damage to our territory. So, on the basis of the elements contained in the bill, I would like to start a comparison, first with the competent Commissions, in order to allow, then, to the approval of the bill, to have an organic discipline that concerns the theme of the lands and rocks from excavation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u31	VACCARI (PD). Thank you, Madam President, and thank you, Minister. The words you have told us on this issue are very important and certainly, as far as the Democratic Party is concerned, you will find, in the Commissions of competence to which you have asked for a contribution and a hand for the approval of acts of guidance on priority issues, a force that will try to give your contribution. I believe that there are important and qualifying points in the action that your Dicastery has indicated, that I believe must find an important involvement of the entire institutional chain: Regions, Provinces, Municipalities and Basin Authorities, which can already boast important experiences. I remember those about maintenance and river contracts, which have been carried out in many parts of the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u34	MARINELLO (PdL). Thank you, Minister, your intentions are certainly good. It has convinced us of the response to prevention policy. Among other things, the intuition that concerns the overall planning of the territory is correct. In this regard, I would like to suggest to you that relations be integrated. I would like to suggest that you have stronger relations with the National Association of Bonifices and, therefore, with the consortia. In this regard, I think it's time for a restyling of the Serpieri law. With regard to the rest of the issues raised, however, I must ask you for greater strength and greater incisiveness, because it is clear that policies must be put in place to find more funds and resources. As for not only my political side, but I believe the entire Environment Commission, we will certainly be with you to carry on this which is not a battle, but is a necessary claim in the interests of our territory, our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u37	NUGNES (M5S). Mr Minister, I would like to say to you, as regards the answer you have given to me, that international literature has unfortunately shown the existence of a cause-effect relationship with the seismic solicitation, clearly where the clods are already loaded. Clearly, if this does not happen, the earthquake will not happen either. In particular, with reference to the Oklahoma earthquake, the thing has been established, it has been prolonged over time, there have been many shocks and scientists have spoken in this regard. Among other things, I have to say that all the documentation at our disposal is in English, because unfortunately I believe that in our country there is a huge problem of conflict of interest: in fact the research that is done and is asked precisely by the oil companies to the scholars are paid by the same; therefore, the local scholars are very generic in this sense. However, thanks to the independence of many intellectuals, we also have the possibility of having other independent opinions: we must report to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u40	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Thank you, Minister, for your speech. I take note of the great importance you have given to the idea of moving on to interventions strongly based on prevention. With specific reference, then, to what I have spoken about, namely the need for an important draining channel for the Brenta, even if you did not intervene directly on the point, I consider it of course as one of the relevant issues. In fact, if it is true that we have a very strong shortage of small maintenance in the waters, however, there is also a need for important works: as there is a need for important works in other fields, even on hydraulics we unfortunately cannot manage only with small things. We will therefore have to walk together, even with the regions, in this sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u43	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Minister, with regard to the establishment of the fund for the killing of abuses, all municipalities must be helped to take preventive action, and not only those municipalities which have not monitored, allowing the implementation of building abuse on their territory. We appreciate the action and attention on the issue of maintenance and prevention, as well as on the issue of the release of the Stability Pact. Of course, the Northern League Group will be satisfied when its intentions come to fruition.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u46	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr Minister, of course, we appreciate the fact that you want to re-examine the issue of the priority of a series of works, starting, for example, from the plans that have been removed. However, as your words also show, the question of resources remains completely handed over to you and to us. On the fund for the suppression of abuses, I think that a mapping of settlements in areas with the highest hydrogeological risk should be done by the Ministry and with local authorities. With regard to maintenance, we agree with the forecast of the involvement of the farmers themselves, in the context of their multifunctionality; perhaps we could also create a young people's plan, an extraordinary plan for the maintenance of the areas... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u47	I apologize, but unfortunately the times today are very tight.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u50	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Thank you, Minister. I greatly appreciated your will to proceed organically with respect to the problem of land and excavation rocks. I assure you that this is the same spirit that has animated me until today: before I was elected senator, I was city council member of the Autonomous Province of Trento and I know how much the decree n. 161 of 2012 has in fact blocked all the small yards. I assure you that, if I have insisted so much in this House that paragraph 2 should be added to what has become Article 8-a (I refer to Decree-Law No 43 of 2013), it is precisely because that article was incomplete and left normative gaps. The same Article 41 of the Fare Decree leaves room for the usual European infringement procedures, to which we have become accustomed. Article 8- bis therefore closes this matter and, pending the environmental simplifications, which I believe will come, there is all the willingness - I am part of the Commission's territory and environment - to finally think about this issue in an organic, definitive and complete manner.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u53	Barani (GAL). Minister, we are not satisfied: we are more than satisfied with the answers you have given us on the two issues we have put to you. On the reconstitution of the Directorate-General for the Protection of the Soil, he said yes; on the need to restructure Reclamation Consortiums, he told us that he will do so, together with the relevant parliamentary committees. We Socialists had no doubt about the new PSI (the self-employed colleagues, Mr Compagnone from the Group of the Great Autonomies and Freedoms). The reformists are obviously with her. We know his abilities: his tenacity, as I said before, comes from a great land and therefore cannot be otherwise. We also urge you, Minister, to evaluate maintenance, which we consider to be a priority: from everything that has been said, I believe that it is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u54	Let us now turn to questions concerning waste management, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Protection of Land and Sea, Mr Orlando. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u57	Mr Morzoni (PD). Minister, in the programmatic statements made to the Senate Environment Commission, you referred to the issue of waste as a major emergency in our country. It is undeniable that this is the case. Only a few days ago the European Commission proposed sanctions for more than EUR 250,000 per day (about EUR 80 million per year) due to repeated failures in the field of waste management in Campania; in this sense I ask you to know about the interventions in the field of plant engineering in this same region. But, by broadening our eyes, we can see that among the 27 countries of the European Union Italy is in the 20th place in the ranking for efficiency in waste management, 51% of which ends up in landfill, against an average of the other countries equal to 38%. It is certainly necessary to intensify separate collection with stricter constraints and stricter rules, but above all by rewarding virtuous behaviour, which has always been announced, in fact never realized, and today clearly contradicted by TARES. Considering, however, that the total amount of waste was still growing in 2010, the real challenge is to contain it through a national plan for reducing and preventing waste, as provided for in the Waste Framework Directive. I therefore ask you what time it is for the plan to be approved, and what specific and structural policies it intends to promote with regard to producers, distributors and consumer associations for an effective action to contain the production and use of packaging, which together represent 50% of municipal solid waste. Finally, what measures does it intend to promote with regard to the reduction of organic waste, considering that in Italy the food that ends up in the garbage represents a value of 11 billion euros a year, 0.7% of GDP.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u60	MARINELLO (PdL). Minister, the crisis situation related to the emergency related to waste disposal involves at least four regions: Lazio, Calabria, Campania and Sicily, almost a third of the national population, huge metropolitan areas such as Naples and Palermo. As for the Lazio Region, and Rome in particular, I ask you what is the state of efficiency of the current systems and treatment plants, including those that are not related to public property, and what are the possible initiatives useful to fill the plant gap, with particular regard to the plants for the production of energy from the recovery of waste. I also ask what are the initiatives, promoted by his Dicastery, to cover the possible interregno between the closure of Malagrotta and the opening of the new site, in order to avoid in the near future to find ourselves in the analogous, delicate, emerging situation of the Campanian territory. I would also like to ask how the Ministry intends to verify the results achieved following the transposition of the so-called European legislation on waste, with particular reference to the improvements achieved in each of the activities envisaged by the hierarchy of interventions referred to in Article 179 of the Environmental Code.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u63	MARTELLI (M5S). Minister, both the Seventh European Programme for 2020 and the Waste Management Hierarchy Directive, which we have transposed after the various infringement procedures, tell us that waste must first be prevented, then reduced, then re-use and recycled, and, with what is going on, that we have not been able to deal with it in other ways, then, in emergency situations, we are doing energy recovery or disposal. The heart of all this is that waste must never be seen as a resource, because otherwise we go to build a society based on waste; we create a treatment chain that constantly needs to produce waste so that, in the middle, before we go to the final parts of the hierarchy, there are a number of people who treat this waste. The classic example in the case of a glass bottle is: it must not be taken, chopped, sent to the glassworks, melted and resurrected, but it must be given back to those who bottled it and told him to fill it again, otherwise there is an artificially based economy in the middle of the waste management; and as has just been said, it is 11 billion. So the first question we ask is: what do we want to do to prevent this from becoming a permanent state, that is, an economy permanently based on rejection? This must be compressed. So, we'd like them to fix dates and numbers on the basis of which we can say, By this time, this system will no longer exist. The second question concerns incineration. In the programmatic report we have still heard of incineration, although this is one of the most wrong waste managements. We are asking how it is possible to insist on incineration after very good directives tell us not to do so, and we know that we will no longer be able to use this kind of strategy since 2020. Any incineration plant has a 20-year depreciation time, so we're out of all logic as soon as we encourage it. The third question is: how do we want producers to become responsible for what they place in trade, given that so far the responsibility lies with the end user (the consumer bears the burden of paying and managing the final disposal of objects that he has not produced)? Finally, we ask what we intend to do at the scientific level to activate paths that take us out of this situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u66	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, kind Minister, the recent Ministerial Decree of 20 March 2013 provided for a progressive re-launch of the waste traceability control system, better known as SISTRI. The SISTRI represents a heavy legacy. The establishment of this system has been accompanied from the beginning by untransparent dynamics with regard to the network of operators involved and to the established controls and by heavy operational problems; criticalities that have postponed the effective activation until today, damaging also those companies that already for the years 2010-2011 had anticipated the contribution of coverage of the burdens deriving from the operation of the system. These issues have been the subject of my interventions already in the previous legislature, as well as of journalistic investigations that have revealed obscure and presumed illegal points on which the need for clarification is high, starting from the opposition of the administrative secret on project, works, services and supplies for the realization of the system, entrusted without procedures of public evidence to the Selex Service Management of the Finmeccanica group, choices that the same National Agency for the digitisation of the public administration (DigitPA) has evidenced as not compatible with the principle of transparency. I am therefore asking you, Minister, what are the real dynamics that have led to the birth and structure of the SISTRI, as well as the nature of the contract between the Ministry and Finmeccanica, and what prospects there are for the future in view of the next reactivation desired with the first term on 1 October 2013 regarding the survival of the system, the transparency of the dynamics that interest it, to its eventual reconfigurations, also in the light of what is highlighted by DigitPA.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u69	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, next 1 October marks the date of entry into force of SISTRI, a system which, born with the aim of combating illegal waste management, was itself a source of illegality. Since 30 April, registrations have begun for manufacturers of special hazardous waste who have more than 10 employees. Even on the basis of the information acquired during the first two months of the preparatory period, I would like to ask you what are the Ministry's policy lines to correct the shortcomings and responsibilities of the old system, especially in view of the fact that the extension had precisely the purpose of revising the SISTRI. It is necessary to update the software, introduce the simplifications already reported by the associations of category, make the changes on the basis of the verification of operation. I would also ask you specifically whether you do not therefore consider it appropriate to restrict the system to special hazardous waste producers only, to make it easy to use SISTRI by means of minimum rules that are easy to apply, to exempt small businesses already suffering from registration due to the severe economic crisis and which are already forced to suffer a sharp increase in the tax burden with IMU and TARES. Finally, I would like to ask whether the contributions paid by the obliged parties in recent years have been reimbursed, since the system has never started definitively, i.e. if they intend to repay, also in view of the sensitivity shown by the previous Minister Clini in suspending this year's payment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u72	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I should like to begin by addressing the issue of the Malagrotta area. You, Minister, will surely know the study that has been announced by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) during 2011 which has revealed a serious contamination of groundwater surface waters in the Malagrotta area, where there is the largest landfill in Italy. The study found that heavy metals, arsenic, chlorine benzene were present in concentrations significantly above the permitted limits. I would therefore ask you, in connection with the ongoing procedure for finding a new site for the storage of treated waste, whether it is not appropriate to exclude in advance the Malagrotta Valle Galeria area, already so heavily affected by the pollution caused - as you will know - not only by the landfill but also by the oil refining plant. And therefore if it does not consider necessary and urgent to promote, in agreement with the Lazio Region and the Municipality of Rome, a program of reclamations and environmental rehabilitation of the site.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u75	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Madam President, Minister, we know that compared to 2010, waste has fallen by 7.7% today, falling below 30 million tonnes. Some say that the production of waste has fallen because of the crisis, claiming that the decrease in consumption has, in fact, also produced the decrease in waste. We do not believe that this is the reason, but we think that it was the good practices of door-to-door collection, the timely tariff and all the other initiatives that made the citizen responsible for reducing waste. In fact, on average, separate collection is around 40% in Italy. There are more virtuous tips such as Veneto, Friuli or Trentino-Alto Adige, where you can exceed 62 percent. Regions like Lazio or Liguria are less well. In Calabria and Sicily we find a situation spotted by leopard, with disastrous performances of some territories, which make in contrast situations decidedly excellent. I say this also with knowledge of cause, for having been until a few months ago mayor of Grammichele, a municipality that believed in the collection door to door. And we believe that we can and must strive for the progressive reduction of waste, with positive aspects in terms of environmental protection and - why not - development, see also the new technologies. That is why when we talk about environmental sustainability we cannot but marry the zero waste strategy. We are aware of a wide range of activities coming from a national promoter committee for the proposition of a bill of popular initiative so that Italy becomes a country with zero waste. The Minister is asked if he does not think that he should set up a discussion table with the committee promoting zero waste law, in order to express the Government's assessments of a strategy that goes towards a truly more livable society and that we believe we must also support through parliamentary legislative initiatives or delegated to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u78	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Madam President, Minister, I take the opportunity to address a specific problem, but one that involves some entrepreneurial initiatives in my Province. I am referring to the companies that produce compostable diapers, capable of breaking down in less than 90 days, and that complain about the impossibility of marketing this product despite the conclusion of sales contracts with some kindergartens not only of my Province. These eco-nappies have obtained the certification of compostability, but the European Code of Waste (CER) to which refers the Single Environmental Text No 152 of 2006 which regulates the disposal of waste, does not yet cover the classification of this product for proper disposal and treatment. It wonders whether the Minister in address, in the mores of the attribution of the CER code he eco-nappies for a correct disposal and treatment, does not consider urgent to extend in a temporary way the code of the staff also to the biodegradable diaper, so as to avoid the failure of the producing companies - unfortunately some have already failed - and, consequently, probably irreversibly discourage the initiatives that aim at the innovation of the product. It is true that, at least in my Province, experimentation has been initiated in this sense, but it is clear that this takes long time that could, unfortunately, be fatal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Orlando, Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Land and the Sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u79	Madam President, in this case too, I respond, quite schematically, trying to isolate the issues that have emerged in the various questions. The first question concerns the trend lines, the objectives we set ourselves. The objectives are of course those contained in the European legislation, which we must also transpose with the approval of the next Community law and transpose - and I respond to Senator Marinello - into the environmental code, which we have also foreseen with the presentation of the draft development law. These seem to me to be the regulatory steps we are facing. The legislation in force since 2008 (Directive 98) asks us to present on the subject of waste a prevention plan, namely measures, taken before a substance, a material, a product has become waste, which reduces the amount of waste, including through the re-use of products or the extension of their life cycle, the negative impacts of waste produced on the environment and human health, or the content of hazardous substances in materials and products. The same Directive places prevention at the top of the waste hierarchy, to be applied as an order of priority in waste prevention and management policy legislation. I do not think this can be discussed. This is an indication that we have freely committed ourselves to support in the Community and that the directives repeat to us on a timely basis, and I would remind you that we have a duty to act in relation to these directives. The central point is not this. The plan will be finalised by December. We have already started a consultation with all environmental associations on the draft prepared by the Ministry. I have no problem with starting this procedure, but I think it might be useful to compare it with the committee promoting the proposal for a zero waste law. We have also set up a consultation with business associations, and I think it is important to move to the Chamber and Senate Commissions before the plan is finally launched. However, the problem facing us at this stage is how to combine existing planning and an ambition, an objective, a line of evolution, which is not only declaimed because it is also daily realized: in many realities, in fact, the performances on differentiated collection are much better than we would have expected, especially in the territories where an emergency persists. So it is quite clear that we are no longer just talking about a generic will but about a real process that is being carried out. The problem - I repeat - is the conjugation of this port with the current plans. The European Union, in fact, is not that since 2020 it bans the thermo-destroyers, but it requires that from 2020 only a waste is collected in the thermo-destroyer, for which it can be shown that it cannot be otherwise usable. However, to date, the European Union is asking us either to replace or replace the type of installation envisaged in the plans, whether we are able to do so, or to implement it. The objective, in fact, to which we are reminded today is the closure of the cycle. From this point of view, too, I have no objection to changing and anticipating the objectives contained within the line of evolution that I have described. The problem is to be able to do so; the problem is to say that today, in the face of a forecast of a thermal destruction plant being exceeded, there is a leap in quality and quantity in separate collection. This is what we must try to do and this is the action that I am trying to achieve even with the regions subjected to particular situations of crisis and difficulty, starting from Campania. I think there are good reasons for supporting this line. Objectively, in fact, even in the regions in crisis - and I deliberately mention Campania, because it was perhaps the region most affected by the phenomenon of the emergency - having reached levels of separate collection up to 50% is a very important result that, in my opinion, allows to revise some forecasts, but these forecasts can be revised only if they succeed to consolidate and improve the results obtained so far. I think it is very important, moreover, to try to give answers also on the field of plant engineering aimed at the continuation of the cycle after the collection. In many Italian realities the problem is that it is not only the thermo-to-valuers, but also the composting plants, or the separate collection plants, or the ecological islands that are functional to it. This should not lead to any particular resistance among citizens: on the contrary, it is proposed as an alternative to the creation of waste-to-energy heaters. Then, in my opinion, as I have said on several occasions, precisely those who believe that the waste-to-energy system is an outdated technology should support an alternative: we divide, so to speak, the work, and perhaps we do a demonstration against the waste-to-energy system, but also another in favour of the activation of a composting plant. I believe that this is a point on which it should be peaceful that the qualitative leap is possible and that all competent authorities can act in this direction. On the subject of Malagrotta, I have arranged that the commission be renewed, with some specific indications: excluding the use of the Galeria Valley for the identification of a new site, creating an alternative site by identifying the headquarters by 31 July. Of course, the realization of the new site cannot be the term from which to close Malagrotta, i.e. you cannot wait for the new site to be realized to close it, also because otherwise it would mean having to keep it open for a very long period. In fact, I have proposed to the technical table - and I have given indications to the Commissioner in this regard - that agreements be made with other regions, for the delivery of waste outside the Region, during the interval period, of course after the treatment provided for by law. This in order to give guarantees to the population of the Galeria Valley on the fact that the extension that we have foreseen is limited to the time necessary to identify - not to the realization, I repeat - of the new site and, at the same time, to the preparation of the contracts necessary for the assignment outside the Region. On the question of the use of plants, it appears to us that they are under-utilised to date and that a strong stimulus action is needed - we will then see in what forms - to ensure that they are fully used, since at the moment we find that they are used around 60-65 per cent of their potential. As far as the construction of energy recovery plants is concerned, I believe that, before providing for others, of which there is no particular need at the moment, existing ones should be used, as there are some already authorised, but not used. With regard to the subject of SISTRI, I would simply like to remind you that this is a matter which began in 2006 and continued, coming to a period closer to us, with an act of 26 September 2012. On that date the General Notice of the State supported the validity of the contract excluding the possibility of resorting to resolving remedies pursuant to Article 136 of Legislative Decree No. 163 of 2006 (whose implementing regulation is contained in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 207 of 2010) and ex Article 27 of the contract, and concluding that, regarding the adequacy of the agreed prices, the reservations on the non-economic convenience of the supply, as far as there may be, will never be suitable to affect the validity of the stipulated contract, not using the extremes of the essential error and recognizable ex Articles 1429 and 1431 of the Civil Code. Why do I quote this element? Because I think it is clear that the scaffolding of the system needs simplification and that, perhaps, if it were to be designed today, it would be hypothesized completely different from what has been achieved. The fundamental point is that we have a contractual constraint, and then we have to try to move within two polarities. Firstly, we must operate a robust simplification work, restricting as much as possible the audience and ensuring that any inefficiency of the system is the cause of possible termination of the contract. I want to say this very clearly: we must take into account or in any case prevent the risk that the system will not work, but we cannot in any way think that the principle of traceability of waste, especially hazardous waste, will be exceeded. Therefore, when we are faced with the fact that the system does not operate or works only partially, we should have already considered possible alternatives to avoid being exposed to the issue of traceability. At the same time, we must produce a profound work of simplifying procedures and also, of course, reducing the audience. This is the work I have started to do, even with the establishment of a table with all the business associations concerned by SISTRI. This work has already given a first result, now it is a question of understanding how this result can be translated from the normative point of view and, at the same time, this is the other aspect, how it can help us to face even a possible litigation with the subject involved, beyond the forms that have been followed. In this regard, I was asked how this solution came about: a question that I do not know how to answer and that perhaps should be addressed to others. But I can say that today that person has rights over which we must, in some way, build alternatives, or take them into account. This is the job we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u80	They now have the power to answer the questions for one minute each. I note that if colleagues do not land at the scheduled time, since the RAI connection will soon expire, the latest interventions may not be included in the current television broadcast.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u83	Mr Morzoni (PD). Madam President, Minister, I welcome the commitments made, particularly the one relating to the adoption of the national waste prevention and reduction plan, which should be ready by the end of the year, so in a few months' time, and I also appreciate the concreteness that you wanted to give to your statements, going beyond what has been all too often an attitude of proclamation of intentions and of poor or no concreteness. I believe that work on waste must be speeded up, not least in order to break down from the past. We know, and you know well, that this matter does not have an exclusively economic and environmental significance, but it invests the credibility of the political and institutional system itself: therefore, I believe that there must be a great commitment on this point to ensure real change.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u86	MARINELLO (PdL). Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answers. It seems to me that you have focused on the issues raised by me, but also by colleagues. I am also pleased with his attention to Lazio and Rome. You will understand very well that the issue of Rome and Lazio is not only purely environmental but also a major economic issue of national and supranational interest. We cannot allow something unpleasant to happen in this city, which is not only the capital of Italy but also, in some ways (let me say), the capital of the world, so we must put into practice all possible policies - you as Minister and we as political actors, and therefore as Commission - in order to move forward and find alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u89	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, first of all, I would like to point out that the EU does not advise us to use the term 'heat-to-energy' because it means a virtuous practice which is not virtuous. Then, he tells us (it's true as I said before): if you can't recover the matter, burn it. However, the virtuous Italian examples, which reach 94 percent of material recovery, show us that that 6% does not burn, so incineration has no reason to exist. What is more, I have heard, like all my colleagues, justify the incinerators with the motivation that must be done because in the meantime no recovery and treatment facilities are being built. Well, since an incinerator is built in a much longer time than a material treatment plant, we cannot understand the meaning of a "sorry" so it is said to do one thing for which it takes longer than another to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u92	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, Minister, thank you for the evidence you have given, which certainly bears witness to the willingness to put the question of SISTRI back in hand. One advice, I hope not pessimistic: let us prepare ourselves, because its malfunction has already been demonstrated. I believe that this system needs a revision, starting from a monitoring that will allow to evaluate the effective operation and applicability of the dynamics currently envisaged, that allow to fight infiltrations and illicit in an already very contaminated environment, but at the same time prevent that the system turns into yet another labyrinth of bureaucracy able only to hinder the companies operating in the field. On the opacity of the stitutive dynamics, I remain convinced, and I conclude, that there has been too much room for discretion and freedom of operations carried out in a solid paradoxical dynamic which, in contrast to the illegality, cannot be completely effective and transparent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u95	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Minister, the North League is not satisfied with your answers. However, some questions have not been answered, but time is also tyrant for her. On the question of SISTRI there are certainties: by mistake the institutions have already paid too much, and perhaps not at all, many businesses, and others will pay. Therefore, Minister, we invite you to address this issue with efficiency and effectiveness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u98	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, Minister, I welcome the exclusion of the Malagrotta area from the identification of any other site and the recognition of the fact that Lazio does not need other thermo-towers. However, I would like to ask the question of the absolute necessity - this applies to Lazio but also to the whole country - to give a very strong impression to the acceleration of separate collection, and above all to the waste plan, seriously encouraging the industrial chain of recycling. These are fundamental issues. I believe that the whole issue of incinerators, at national level, Minister, must be seriously reviewed. What has happened in recent years shows that the operations carried out have certainly not made our country make a qualitative leap in terms of modernity and separate collection.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u101	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Minister, we thank you, and we appreciate the efforts you are making, because this is a complex matter. It is clear that the direction to work in the direction indicated is a little from the whole of this House. Since it is a philosophy of life, we have to believe it: in pursuing this idea of eliminating waste we have to believe it. Sharing what Senator Panizza said earlier, the small percentage (about 6 percent) not reusable is composed of diapers, cigarette tugs and little more. It's a technological problem. Technology can meet us. So, let's invest in new technologies and not incinerators. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If then many regions are behind, let's help them to build the plants with strength and energy in order to achieve separate collection.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u104	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Madam President, Minister, time is tyrant, the vast and complex matter and the Minister has not had time to answer my question. I therefore ask him whether he can have his answer in written form and be given a brief explanation, because the subject, unfortunately, is rather urgent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u105	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Orlando for his willingness. I apologise for the brutality with which the speeches are interrupted, but unfortunately the procedure requires us to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u106	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-53.ana.u107	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 2 July, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.
