ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u4	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senator Ignazio Marino. I ask the Senator Secretary to read the letter sent by Senator Ignazio Marino and received to the Presidency on 8 May 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u5	"Illustrated Mr. President, by this I intend to inform you of my intention to resign as Senator of the Republic, since from today, for the next four weeks, I will be fully engaged with the campaign activities for the race to Mayor of Rome Capital, in view of the vote of 26-27 May p.v.. No longer being able to assure, during the next month, the assiduous commitment that I have always wanted to guarantee in the Upper House, I believe it is right and proper to resign from my position as a Member of Parliament. Thank you in advance for your attention to this correspondence. With sincere and deep esteem, Ignatius R. Marino.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u9	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the vote that this House will shortly be called upon to express is not a rare episode in parliamentary life, an episode that happens every now and then: it is a unique episode. In my memory I do not remember a case in which a senator, being a candidate for a public office like that of mayor or president of the Region, has submitted his resignation before the conduct of the electoral dispute. I do not recall a case in which a parliamentary group to which a senator belonged who was in these conditions immediately, at the first meeting of the Leaders, at which the question of the timing of the vote was raised, agreed to do so without any conditions. I remember, only as a chronicle (but to understand the importance of these gestures it is good to have some comparisons) that Mr Gianni Alemanno himself, with whom Senator Ignazio Marino now confronts for the elections to mayor of Rome, resigned after being elected mayor and they were accepted two months after his election. Ignatius Marino acted differently: he sent the letter to the Senate that you, Mr President, had read a few minutes ago and today we are voting for your resignation. I believe that the gesture of Senator Marino must be emphasized, not only for the personal value that must be attributed to him, but as a political gesture of great importance. Of great importance, however, would have been at any time in the life of this Parliament. But in a time like ours, in which in reality the public offices take care more easily to reduce, in a time like ours, in which from the public offices you always try to distance the moment of detachment, the choice of Ignazio Marino, I must say, does in some way honor to all of us and to the same Senate. The Senators of the Democratic Party, at the personal request of Senator Marino, without taking any account of the practice that this House knows, for having adopted it in recent times, which wants the resignation rejected in the first vote, will vote in favour of the acceptance of the resignation of Senator Marino. As a personal representative of all the Senators of the Democratic Party, I thank him for his gesture, of which we fully understand the importance. We also thank him very much for the seven years he was in the Senate with us, for his work as President of the Commission, for his work as a senator, for his competence in the matters he has dealt with, for the seriousness with which he worked in the Senate, for the example of good policy he gave us. Ignatius Marino is conducting an important political battle. We therefore wish him every success and thank him very much. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u12	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can understand many of Mr Zanda's arguments on this particular case. In fact, I want to believe that at the moment that Senator Marino agreed to lead the Senate list in Piedmont he did not imagine that the party would ask him to run for mayor of Rome with primary. However, this House has never been able to understand, as has happened at other times in the face of the resignation of other people, the deep motivations that he puts forward on a matter that is not of ineligibility but of subsequent incompatibility. I mean that Senator Marino has also made this an issue of election campaign, which we cannot fail to highlight. I would have preferred - I say this with great respect to Senator Zanda, the Democratic Party and Senator Marino - that today he had come here to explain his decision. Certainly we would not have entered into political issues such as those of one person who is elected in another Region and who certainly does not have a history linked to the representation of the Roman community: questions that pertain to the choices of his party, who voted for it and personal decisions. However, we note this vulnus, which is first and foremost legislative. The question of incompatibility is very clear when a mayor is running for senator or congressman, it is not clear at all (or in any case there has always been a reverse interpretation) when it is the congressman who is running for mayor. I do not agree with this approach, perhaps because it is the first time I have been a senator, while for many years I have been mayor of a city with more than 20,000 inhabitants, finding myself, therefore, in an objective impossibility to be elected in Parliament. But everything has changed and even this, in some cases, has been made possible. However, the problem remains that Senator Marino is not here today to explain the reasons why he intends to resign. We have, however, read in the newspapers for long weeks that this has been a strong topic in your election campaign, which is also disputed; this concerns procedures, but also issues of substance. However, on a matter of this kind, on the one hand there is the freedom of mandate that each of us can exercise according to the Constitution, according to law, but also according to conscience, and in this it is also understood the renunciation if other institutional solutions are proposed after the acceptance of the candidacy. On the other hand, there is also the right of the Assembly to its integrity and the fact that it does not use the office of senator, therefore indirectly the Senate itself, for election campaign purposes. In this conflict of interest between the freedom of the individual and the rights of the Assembly to the integrity of the Senate, given the lack of motivation on the part of the directly concerned in explaining and justifying his attitudes, I believe that the first possibility should be left to my Group colleagues, but also to all of us, to assess in conscience the request for resignation that we are about to vote. But I also believe that a behaviour that we do not consider perfectly respectful of the reasons why we accepted the candidacy and then the election as senators of the Republic should be noted. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator D'Alì.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u15	MANGILI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting in favour of the resignation because this was the will expressed by Senator Marino and because we believe that the institutions respect the truth and not the practice. We believe people first of all, unlike those in this House who, by showing a culture of mistrust and suspicion (culture that does not belong to us), have in the recent past made completely opposite choices. We know that it is a well-established practice to vote against the offer of resignation submitted by any senator, but we also know that this practice was born in another Italy and with other values. It was, that refusal, a way to renew the confidence of gentlemen who, as soon as their person had been touched by doubt, by suspicions, perhaps generated by uncontrolled voices, to defend the institutions they represented offered to return simple free men, in order not to burden the Italian Parliament with any reason for shame. Other times and other values! Now, in the face of the resignation presented by Senator Marino on 29 April, we can only accept them, since we are sure that the will of the colleague is this: to be at the time of the vote, which could lead him to be mayor of the Capital, citizen equal to all others and not in the status of elected, superior in fact to many, liable to be suspected of improper and unlawful use of his office. And that's what everyone has to do, Kantian. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u18	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I agree with the remarks made by the President of the Democratic Group, so my speech will be absolutely brief, but I felt it appropriate to do so because I share a consideration that honours this House: that of the nature of a unique behaviour that allows us to say that today the Senate is put before not a custom, but a fact that can then become a positive custom. Faced with such a heavy commitment as that undertaken by Senator Marino to respond to the numerous requests to participate in the primaries of the center-left for the election of the mayor of the capital of the country, immediately after winning that competition he carried out a reasoning from which he drew the consequences: a reasoning that, as I said, honors this House and, let me add, the millions of women and men of the city of Rome. With this conviction I do not understand some critical observations that have been made, because the city of Rome in the past - and not only in the recent one, to which Senator Zanda referred, but also in the remotest one - has seen different, opposite behaviors, in some cases also the pervicacy of achieving the election as mayor and therefore have the honour to lead the capital of the country and, at the same time, carry out other institutional tasks. Here, let's remove the vulnus that in that case had created itself. I would therefore like to personally thank my colleague, Ignazio Marino, and wish him every success in his election on Sunday and Monday. Obviously, it would be a contradiction to claim the physical presence of Senator Marino on this occasion, because it would conflict with the sensitivity he had towards us and the citizens of the city of Rome. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u21	Mr Schifani (PdL). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an affair which I believe is unprecedented: the resignation of a colleague, with regard to an electoral competition for the office of mayor, for which the ineligibility of the parliamentary candidate is not foreseen, but the incompatibility between the posts. An electoral race, therefore, that requires a choice, after the possible election as mayor, between maintaining the role of new elected or that of parliamentarians. Among other things, it is the resignation of an illustrious colleague, whom I personally appreciated, when I had the honour to lead this Senate, as President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Health Service; a person strongly engaged in the battles for better health and for a better quality of survival in criminal asylums; a person also endowed with a remarkable scientific culture in the professional field. Senator Marino obviously wanted, with this letter, to resign because I believe he has carried out an assessment from a political, perhaps, legal point of view. An assessment that goes beyond the epistolary declaration of resignation due to the fact that for four weeks he could not participate in this work. In addition, allow me not to fully understand the meaning of this motivation, since it would be a politically, ethically and morally justified absence because it is linked to a commitment to electoral competition. I therefore agree with those who say that it would be to say the least unlikely to even ask for the presence of Senator Marino in this debate. He is engaged in a competition of great transparency, in a democracy, ours, in which, fortunately, the rules in the electoral systems are transparent and guarantee the maintenance of our order. On the contrary, I believe that I interpret this desire to resign from another point of view, namely that of pseudo-inellegibility. Senator Marino perhaps believes that, running to the office of mayor of Rome, he can avail himself of a benevolentiae captatio, of a greater acquisition of consent than the other opponents as a parliamentary in office and therefore wants to evict the field from this suspicion in order to present himself to his electors without the usbergo, without the shield, of the qualification of parliamentarians, therefore as citizen like many others. If so, this decision can only be honored. Among other things, we can only take note of the will expressed by the President of the Parliamentary Group in which Senator Marino acts to vote in favour of the resignation of his colleague in order to assume a position of third party. The speaker therefore authorizes his colleagues in the Group to vote on their own consciences, because there is a change in the practice whereby the first request for resignation is rejected in order to assess whether this will actually persists over time, and then to vote on the second time. Well, this practice is innovative at the request of the Senator Marino's Group. We can only take note of this, because if President Zanda had not intervened with this explanatory statement, we would have respected the coherence of a system that saw the resignation rejected for the first time. At this point, I declare that my Group, in the light of individual assessments and my modest interpretational reflections on what led Senator Marino to resign, will vote according to conscience. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u23	President Susta has already spoken on behalf of his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u24	CASINI (SCPI). Personally. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's a matter of conscience, so I give you the floor. CASINI (SCPI). I am very grateful to the President of my Group, who gives me freedom of conscience (which I had regardless of this concession); but since it seems right to be transparent in these passages, because it also concerns the way in which we are in Parliamentary assemblies and I do not like to resort to the secret vote to hide my intentions or my problems of conscience, I do not see the reasons for subverting the practice that has always been there, so I will personally vote no. On the day that Senator Marino confirms his resignation I will have no problem doing as in other circumstances, i.e. voting yes. Since I believe that what is happening in the Rome election campaign should not be of interest to me as a member of this House at the moment when I am faced with a request for resignation and I do not think that the practice that has always led to the vote no to the first vote on the request for resignation is unjustified, I vote no. [[Applause from the SCPI and PdL groups]] . Vote by secret ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u25	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a secret ballot, by electronic procedure, on the resignations submitted by Senator Ignazio Marino. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. As this is a secret ballot vote, whatever the choice of vote is made, the light that will turn on will be neutral in colour. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot vote, by electronic procedure, on the resignation submitted by Senator Ignazio Marino: [[Senators present 257 Senators voting 256 Majority 129 Favorables 179 Contrars 67 Absent 10]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fedeli.]] I would remind you that, at the meeting of the Council for the Rules of Procedure of 9 April 2013, the powers of the Provisional Council for the verification of the powers referred to in Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure were extended until the formation of the Council for the elections and parliamentary immunities. I hereby authorize the Provisional Board for the Verification of Powers to convene immediately to proceed with the determination of the successor candidate to the resigning senator. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.31 a.m. and resumed at 16.44 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u26	I inform you that the Provisional Board for the verification of the powers has communicated that, having to provide, pursuant to article 19 of the legislative decree 20 December 1993, n. 533, to the attribution of the seat rendered vacant in the Piedmont Region following the resignation of Senator Ignazio Roberto Maria Marino, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned senator belonged is Enrico Buemi. I acknowledge the Provisional Council for the verification of the powers of this communication and proclaim Senator Enrico Buemi. I am aware that the 20-day deadline for the submission of any complaints will begin with the new one. [[Applause from Senator Favero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u29	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to inform the House of what happened yesterday. Yesterday the City of Milan (we are therefore talking about a joint body) organized an institutional event to which the Minister for Integration invited. It was therefore an institutional event, to which the Minister for Integration participated as Minister of the Italian Republic: the Minister did not participate as a mere citizen, but - I repeat - as Minister of the Italian Republic and, therefore, as representative of the institutions. The Minister's role is important, perhaps so many of our fellow citizens would like to play. Given the importance of the event, and given - I repeat - that it was an institutional event, the leader of the Northern League in the City Council, Alessandro Morelli, presented himself to the Minister trying to shake her hand. I repeat: he presented himself as the Parent Company of the North League and since he was in the city of Milan. The Minister, as we all know, refused to shake hands with the League's Parent Company, hiding behind the institutional escort. In our opinion, this is very serious, for the simple reason that we have before us a Government and a President of the Council who have made an important opening, trying to remove that violence, even verbal, that is at this moment in our country. The President-in-Office of the Council is doing a great deal of work from this point of view. We believe that the Minister's behaviour does not go in the same direction, the direction that we all want and that we are all following from the day that the President of the Republic was elected, who made that important speech to the House of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not just talking about a political act at this point. We are also talking about an act of education, for the simple reason that it is a handshake: that famous handshake, even of greeting, that our parents taught us. What we want is for some water to be thrown over the fire, rather than the gasoline that our Minister has launched at the moment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u32	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that my vote was not recorded during the vote on the resignation of Senator Marino.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u33	We take note of that. Your clarification will remain in the minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u36	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the transmission of a Senate employee's report on lobbying in this Parliament has been stirred up. It is not difficult to see the red thread that, in a legal way, is harmful to the country, unites politics and gambling. On 11 February 2013, in the Senate, Matteo Iori, President of the CoNAGGA association, who fought against addiction to gambling, denounced its interweavings. Iori himself, on 7 May, commented on the net: Seven Ministers, including Prime Minister Enrico Letta, are part of a foundation called Vedrò, which is also financed by two multinational gambling companies, Lottomatica and Sisal. Letta received 15,000 euros of contributions to the owner of HBG, which is one of the largest gambling companies. The new minister Bray is also director of the magazine "Italianieuropei," already supported by important advertising contracts with the gambling industries. In the new government to whom will the delegation of gambling go? Will the new Undersecretary Alberto Giorgetti be randomly chosen? Giorgetti would not be new to the delegation to the games, because he held it for years under the Berlusconi Government with great pleasure of the game industry. These are the words of Iori. We also learn from the CONAGGA dossier and press inquiries that SNAI has regularly funded Gianni Alemanno, Margherita, UDC, DS, MPA, Gianni Cuperlo and PD; former politicians and their relatives are appearing in the business. I quote quickly Augusto Fantozzi, President SISAL; Vincenzo Scotti who launched "Formula Bingo" together with Luciano Consoli (man of trust of D'Alema); Francesco Tolotti dell'Ulivo who, with Nannicini, Vannucci, Salerno and Gioacchino Alfano, in 2007 managed to modify the unique text that regulates slot machines; the Honorable Laboccetta; Massimo Ponzellini; Antonio Cannalire, owner of Jackpot Game, who in Milan managed gambling rooms along with the Financial Cinema, owned by Marco Jacopo Dell'Utri, son of Marcello Dell'Utri. It is recalled that the Berlusconi Government freed online gambling; casually - but only casually - a few days before Mondadori acquired control of 70 percent of Glaming, which operates in online gambling. Finally, we cannot omit Pellegrino Mastella, son of Clemente Mastella, who, through SGAI and Betting 2000 of the brothers Renato and Massimo Grasso, started other gambling companies, including King Slot and Wozzup, investigated for serious crimes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Marino Luigi]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that the vast majority of you do not have any lobbying links and share the urgency of strict legislation against online slots and games, which benefit citizens, families and their children with serious damage. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Lepri]] The 5 Star Movement awaits from the Government in fact the coherence of which today it is politically legitimate to doubt. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u37	Senator Endrizzi, I would like to make a single clarification, without going into the matter: with respect to an employee employment relationship in the Senate, we do not have the confidence that this is concrete and real. So it was broadcast through that television broadcast that you mentioned. I think it might be more than someone who has worked or collaborated in the past for the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u38	I didn't just mention the broadcast, but also a specific file presented at the press conference right here in the Senate. Of this dossier not only an extract, but also the entire text are widely available online in many sites. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u41	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, Senators, this weekend I was impressed by a video shot by some citizens of the Municipality of San Vitaliano, a municipality in Campania, my land: to protect their land, their territories and, ultimately, our precious health, they armed themselves with cameras, gloves and masks to denounce the state of abandonment of many places in which they live. There are illegal waste and then burned; this creates double damage, the environmental damage and the damage to public health. Tumours are on the increase, entire populations are subject to very heavy risks. I wish I could reach not only the hearing of each one, but above all the intellect and, even more, the heart. To leave this land prey to illicit trafficking in toxic waste and burning is to leave to lawlessness the management of our territory and make it progress economically; it is to abandon the unarmed citizens in the hands of these lords of death; it is to generate wounds in the soul of the people who feel so abandoned and frustrated. I ask all the senators to intervene together, supporting any action that will solve with determination this ugly plague that generates death. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u44	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, on 15 May 2013 the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group presented, at my first signature, a draft law aimed at repealing Law No 228 of 27 September 2002 on the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the French Republic for the construction of a new Turin-Lyon railway line, made in Turin on 29 January 2001. The presidency of the Senate considered the draft law inadmissible, pursuant to Rule 8, second period of the Rules of Procedure, as it opposed - as it said - certain provisions of the Constitution, and in particular Articles 80, 87 and 117. I would like, on behalf of myself and the Group to which I am attached, to express my complete disagreement with your declaration of inadmissibility. In fact, pursuant to Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the President represents the Senate and regulates the activities of all its organs, by enforcing the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of this, he directs the discussion and maintains the order, judges the admissibility of the texts (...) Presidential powers are therefore exercised in a purely functional sense in relation to the Rules of Procedure. Moreover, it is necessary to severely stigmatize the judgment and presidential evaluation of the profiles of fearful inconstitutionality of the measure in question. Moreover, authoritative doctrine argues that the (presideential) judgment of eligibility serves only to ascertain the existence and formal regularity of the act of initiative, with the exclusion of any judgment on constitutional legitimacy. So the Presidency has, at least inappropriately, given itself power that is not provided for in the current Senate Rules. You can only judge whether an act is formally admissible on the basis of the criteria laid down in the Rules of Procedure, but certainly not essentially to verify the act itself or the possible unconstitutionality of the act. The latter judgment is, in fact, reserved to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that is to say to the Assembly in the matter of a preliminary ruling. The second paragraph of Article 75 of the Constitution, which prohibits the use of the repealing referendum, should also be recalled in respect of the international treaties. Parliament's exclusive competence in the matters referred to therein shall be deduced from the wording of this Article. Furthermore, by stating that the act to which she refers is intended to repeal Law No 228 of 27 September 2002, which also contains the implementation of the Treaty, we recall the well-known judgments of the Constitutional Court no. 30 and 31 of 1981, where it was expressly deemed to be the responsibility of the legislator to repeal the Act of ratification of the Euratom Treaty of 4 October 1957, No 1203. This is what the Constitutional Court states in its judgment:'(...) 'is a responsibility - as the Court stated in its judgment No 30 of the same date - which has been reserved for Parliament's political assessment.' Finally, as written in the explanatory report to the bill you declared inadmissible, the admissibility of the presentation of parliamentary legislative initiatives aimed at repealing the legislation authorising the ratification of treaties appears, moreover, supported both by parliamentary practice, inaugurated by specific decisions of the Boards for the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber and Senate, and by authoritative doctrine that has supported as it remains then always without the possibility for Parliament to revoke by law the order of execution or the same authorization to ratification: it already revokes in itself sufficient to bind the legal operators within the disapplication of the Treaty. We therefore believe, for the reasons set out above, that the Presidency's determinations do not appear to comply with the regulations and, therefore, we strongly urge you to reconsider the decisions taken by the Presidency. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u45	The Presidency confirms what was sent to you by letter of 20 May 2013 by President Grasso. If necessary, Senator Scibona, you can suggest initiatives aimed at stimulating the government so that it can review the Treaty in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u46	As the agenda for tomorrow's afternoon sitting has been exhausted, this sitting will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-27.ana.u48	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 23 May, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5 p.m.
