ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u4	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 720, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative drafts of MPs Mogherini and others, Spadoni and others, Migliore and others, Bergamini and others, Meloni Giorgia, 243, 641 and 729, and motions 1-00056 and 1-00064, by abbreviated procedure pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, for the adoption of measures against violence against women. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to take the last parliamentary act, the final step, for the adoption of the draft law on the ratification and implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, done in Istanbul on 11 May 2011 (subscribed by Italy on 27 September 2012), already approved by the House of Deputies on 28 May 2012. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, a little silence. FATTORINI, rapporteur. Firstly, I would like to thank the President and colleagues of the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee for the conviction with which they wanted to vote unanimously, as well as colleagues from all the other Commissions, who gave a favourable opinion. The ratification of this Convention is a very important act. It is the result of the intense work of the Italian parliamentarians, those who have worked within the Council of Europe to get to the Convention and those who, with their work, almost at the end of the last legislature, have managed to start a debate here in the Senate and to win the signature of the Italian Government, as well as of the colleagues and colleagues of this new legislature who have maintained, together with you, Mr President, the priority. I say this because often such important conventions do not have the right recognition, even in our national headquarters, of the collective work behind them. Not to mention, with regard to the recognition of what lies behind this final act, the social demand and the new sensitivity that come from women and men in the face of the rise of violence. This is to tell you that it really is, apart from all rhetoric, an important thing. With the Convention we are then faced with a new instrument, closer to the facts than to the words, the many appeals and the many resolutions of condemnation; an instrument which, once operational, will be for the first time legally binding for an effective fight against violence against women in terms of prevention, protection, repression, monitoring and integration of policies; the first and most advanced legally binding international instrument aimed at creating a comprehensive regulatory framework to protect women against any form of violence. I would also like to point out that the ratification of this Convention by Italy represents a virtuous conclusion to continue in that legislation on the protection of women and minors that in our country has seen important laws, obtained with the help, as I will say later, of all political cultures, which are a great wealth and a very important value of our legal tradition. The Convention is the first treaty that recognises violence against women as a violation of human rights and as a form of discrimination, thus constituting it a violation of the principle of equality. That is the heart of the Convention, to which I shall return. It is the implicit recognition of the need to put in place any instrument that deeply affects culture, education, education and communication and that intervenes, at the same time, in all aspects of life that can really determine equality and equality. [[Brusio]] I understand, the subject has been dealt with a lot. I am now coming to the point of the limits of this excess of interest. For months the newspapers have been dealing with it, but we must be careful about this over-exposition of the subject, because when it becomes common consciousness we must not deceive ourselves that the problem does not exist anymore, but that it is not important, as I think I record from the buzz. Personally, I am always wary of easy indignation and unanimity, because the clamour of the media, the fact that I have heard so many times and the unanimous indignation (who is in fact not in disagreement and does not horrify in the face of what we hear and see?), this overexposition, this talk excessively risk paradoxically becoming addicted, getting the opposite effect up to even reaching forms of negationism, as we have also recently seen, just as a reaction to an excess of media exposure. We must therefore be very convinced of the need to maintain a sober and lucid judgment, not to be dragged, not to make it an object of fashion as little really felt, not to have a victimistic or vindictive attitude, because if we remain firm and lucid we can identify the appropriate legislative measures, as is already happening with the new decrees. This lucidity in not exaggerating in the propagandistic aspect must be precisely what allows us to always have clear that with feminicide and, in general, with violence against women, we are faced with a persistent and pervasive reality and that the quantitative and qualitative data of crimes confirm that it is a real social scourge that affects women of all social classes, of all ages and is present in advanced societies as well as in backward ones. It is therefore a phenomenon that for some time now does not concern extreme or blatantly heinous cases, but is unfortunately born in the very heart of the relationship between the sexes and in the same family life. The Convention very well grasps this aspect of domestic and domestic horror because it leads it back to domestic violence, which not only affects women, but also children and the elderly, to whom the same protection measures apply. To confirm this, the preamble stresses that achieving equality between the sexes dejure and de facto is a key element in preventing violence against women. I would like to stress here the two qualifying points which are the true novelty of the Convention, which really introduce new aspects and which are present in the preamble and in Article 3, which is the richest one and which most enters into the quality and ratio of the Convention. The first point concerns the link between human rights and violence against women and the fact that it is the cause and consequence of historically unequal relations of strength between the sexes. The spirit, the philosophy of the Convention is then to combat violence against women according to the principle that human rights are now the real test of the level of civilization of our countries, no less than economic or anguish national issues. This brings us back to the nature and new quality of human rights today. The second point concerns gender equality. As I have already said, the uncomfortable data on the social, cultural and working conditions of women in our country show that we have a long way to go on this ground. Many, and perhaps too many, say that laws on violence against women are not enough and that the problem is cultural. Many speak of stereotypes and prejudices, but the issue is deeper and more subtle together. It is not only about some backward, possessive and violent behavior, with which the traditional male jealousy takes shape, at least not in our countries, not in Italy and not in Europe. The heinousness, but also the ordinary banality of monstrous crimes, such as those perpetrated by teenagers on their peers or normal companions in domestic life on the mothers of their children, refer to the nature of the cultural and moral crisis that we are experiencing, in which so unequal relationships of force flourish. In this particular context, violence against women (I would like to stress and make you reflect on this reasoning, perhaps a bit complicated) has an ambiguous root, a sort of vengeance of man on a woman who has become too strong, who wants to choose independently. And that is what I would like to draw your attention to, that is, to the complicated link between equality with man and female difference, because it is in it that the real challenges, the true cultural and psychological pitfalls, those most difficult to decipher and therefore to defeat, to be eradicated. When it is said, and rightly so, that laws are not enough to stem the phenomenon of violence against women, because it should also go to its cultural roots, it should not be understood in my opinion then alone and so much the so-called prejudices or stereotypes. This is a surface reading. The explosion of these variegated forms of violence refers to a profound nature of the crisis of identity of male subjectivity, to a sort of destabilization of man towards that strange and unprecedented female identity that frightens him, because together with the demands of equality the woman also, always and even more, claims its specificity all feminine. Women want equality, of course, and therefore the freedom to decide and to choose, without sacrificing their specifically feminine prerogatives. A strange creature, therefore, the woman of today: strong, very strong and yet very feminine. All this confuses and frightens man, causing a real crisis of relationship between the sexes. Sorry, this parenthesis, but the deep roots of the phenomenon are often not grasped. However - I conclude this more cultural part - it is quite evident that precisely in achieving full equality between men and women is the essential and necessary precondition for preventing gender violence. Now it seems to me necessary to go into some further details, although for a thorough examination of the text of the articles of the Convention I refer to the written text. The Convention - and I would just like to mention this briefly - is a preamble which contains the meaning I mentioned earlier, the link with human rights, and 81 articles divided into 12 chapters. The aim of the Convention, contained in Article 1, which follows the preamble, is to create a comprehensive and integrated framework for the protection of women, as well as international cooperation (which is the fundamental framework in which all this is achieved, which is why it is important that it be ratified by at least ten countries) and support to the authorities and organisations for this purpose. Of importance is also the prediction that the Convention will be applicable both in peacetime and in situations of armed conflict (Article 2), which we know is the fact that violence is raging fiercely. We know this from recent and past history: the female body during the war, with rapes, is metonymous, metaphorical of the violence and possession of man on the homeland that he must defend and on the homeland that he must conquer. This was true in world wars, but we also saw it in the Kosovo war and in the post-conflict after the massacre in Rwanda. Therefore, this picture is very important, which in fact refers to all the countries of the world and to all the conditions of peace and war. Article 3 contains a series of definitions and terms, which will be used repeatedly in the text, such as the definition of "genere" which exceeds the pure biological data to refer - I quote - to 'roles, behaviors, activities and socially constructed attributes which a given society considers appropriate for women and men. I quote it in its entirety because this definition, as you know, has given rise to a number of controversy, which was then unanimously concluded with the statement that Italy will apply the Convention in accordance with the principles of the Italian Constitution. I am going over many chapters and I am going to focus only on the chapter, which extends extensively on a series of commitments concerning the method by which States commit themselves to tackling this phenomenon. In this case, among other things, reference is made to - and is very important to us - the need for coordination of different policies and the involvement of non-governmental organisations and civil society, data collection, prevention, and everything that constitutes the best wealth and content of the Convention. Among these issues, ample space is given to prevention, to which the third chapter is dedicated, which is also very important because it contains the very meaning of the Convention. Prevention would require a debate of its own, which I do not do and which I hope and I think will certainly be resumed in the course of the debate. The heart of prevention, as it is clear, cannot be properly legal. Prevention is a fact - as I said before - cultural, moral, psychological, political, and in short alludes to all those who too superficially call the debate stereotypes and prejudices and to everything that leads to this type of uncontrolled and inconsulted reactions. If therefore - as we said - we are faced with complex and profound realities, this does not mean, of course, that we must commit ourselves - and the Convention does so very well - to take preventive measures, that are linked to the awareness campaign (it speaks extensively of Article 13), to educational programs, to control the use of the female image of the body, and so on. These themes also require trained and trained professionals. Another fundamental point of the Convention is protection, which should be pursued, again in this case, by means of coordinated cooperation mechanisms between different, state and non-state bodies. This reasoning is important and has already been explained on several occasions. The demands of volunteering should be strengthened: I am thinking of social services, shelters, anti-violence centres, telephone lines, all a protective apparatus which has broad foundations in volunteering, but which cannot be abandoned to itself, and not only in terms of funding (very painful chapter, which I will be talking about shortly): it must not represent an opportunity for the State to be decommissioned, which must instead take on this preventive aspect in the first instance. Another interesting element, which was not present in any international convention, is the specification of the location of the crimes, including psychological violence, forced abortion, harassment and forced marriage, which, as you know, is extremely important in many underdeveloped countries. The Convention calls for States to commit themselves to introducing these offences into their national law, if there are no, for which sanctions must be defined as effective, proportionate and dissuasive, and therefore not vindictive, but much more stringent. I am beginning to conclude by recalling only one very important chapter, which has already partly had a response in the recent decree of our Government. This is Chapter VII on migrant women and women asylum seekers: two categories which, as you can well understand, are particularly subject to gender-based violence. The Convention specifically speaks of the gender nature of the violence against migrants and in this sense grants the possibility of obtaining a resident status independent of that of the spouse and the partner: this is very important and - I repeat - it is a passage that has already been well reflected in the decrees issued two days ago by our Government. Furthermore, the obligation to recognise gender violence as a form of persecution - in accordance with the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees - is established and the obligation to respect the right to non-refoulement for victims of violence against women is reiterated. I repeat: the articles are many and very interesting, and I cannot dwell on each of them, so I ask that I be able to attach the full text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. We know that, it has been said on many occasions, but I would like to remind you that in order to enter into force the Convention will have to be ratified by at least ten States, of which eight are members of the Council of Europe. To date 29 countries have signed the Convention, but only 17 of them belong to the European Union. This is already a fact that must make us think. Only 4 countries have ratified it (Turkey, Albania, Portugal and Montenegro). We are the fifth and second countries of the European Union, after Portugal. Before concluding, I would like to clarify two points immediately. What we are about to ratify with a final act, which follows a process of discussion not only legislative, is a type of instrument that requires us to ratify it "dry," that is, without rules of adaptation of the internal order. The choice of this - the fact that it is dry - instrument is justified with the will to arrive as quickly as possible to ratification by our country, but this must not be mistaken for a renunciation choice. This does not mean being content with ratification - which is important and the speed with which we are doing it is instrumental and it is "dry" because we want to have it immediately, quickly - or that we do not have to deal with the commitments that the Convention requires. This is the first thing we need to be responsible for in this choice. The second point, which is the consequence of this, concerns financial resources. I do not want to reopen the issue of financial cover, which has already been addressed by the Budget Committee and discussed extensively in the House. The Commission has submitted its favourable opinion to the inclusion of the financial neutrality clause, now contained in Article 3 of the draft law. In order to achieve, at least in part, the objectives so ambitious that the Convention asks us for money, and to find these resources, we will have to deal with them when, I hope very soon, we deal with the rules for adapting our system. In this sense, I think, the proposal of Minister Idem of a task force that could drain into the various ministries of resources could be very useful. I would like to conclude by saying that we must express a united and convinced pronunciation and not simply a consensus, as we say banally, bipartisan or broad understanding. Our legislation has a prestigious tradition of family law, the protection of women and children. I am thinking of family law, the law against violence against women and the anti-stalking law. These have been the result of the best political cultures in our country and not just legal ones. Of these cultures, now partially exhausted or, however, exhausted, we must recover the best legacy, without nostalgia, but neither demolition removals that give us nothing. Although we appreciate the text of the Convention, precisely for this richness we also see the aspects perhaps too formal and in part algidi that should be nervous with the thickness of our convictions and our Italian tradition where great weight and can have good relations between the sexes, generations and families. What is the best lesson that we can learn from this nervousness between our tradition and the European spirit? I'll say it in three places. Our lesson is to ensure that the Italian legislative sensitivity on these issues, such as human rights in general, is inversely proportional to the lack or lack of practical, concrete and real application of these dictates in the concrete life of our women. Secondly, we must ensure that we are the second country of the European Union to ratify the Convention and commit us to eradicate our case-law, which is among the most alarming in Europe about gender violence by the number of victims and the heinousness of crimes. Finally, it is necessary to ensure that equality between men and women becomes real and not only enunciated and that this does not represent yet another plan of confrontation, this time between the sexes, but a common awareness that sees men first engaged against this hateful violence. In short, colleagues, colleagues, President, we ratify this Convention not as a tired and ritual politically correct gesture, but with the conviction, of heart and head, that these are real battles aimed at animating an exhausted civilization not only because of the economic crisis but also from the failure of the basic principles of a common humanism that will never again be without the recognition of the rights of a full and free feminine humanism. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u6	Senator Fattorini, the Presidency authorizes you to deliver the full text of your speech, which will be published in the annex to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her comprehensive report on the draft ratification law, drawing the attention of all of us to a truly dramatic and alarming problem. Today I speak in this House with a particular appreciation and a real, very heartfelt participation. The issue we are now dealing with is no longer elusive and has now taken on the contours of a real social, cultural and, therefore, political emergency: violence against women. At this stage I will therefore illustrate the motion tabled by the Lega Nord and Autonomous Group, aware that the debate that has already taken place in the House over the past few weeks is serious and important and touches on an issue that sees us all involved, ladies and gentlemen, men and women, in a common battle that is above all and above all a cultural battle against which the sensitivity of our Group is characterized by a particular attention that wants to be proactive. This is why we wanted to present a specific motion immediately, which, in its content, very articulated and divided into thematic points of great impact, certainly recalls the arguments put forward also by motion 64 tabled by colleagues from other groups, but it is a motion that we still want to maintain in order to mean our specific desire to be proactive on the subject. Our motion refers to the issue of prevention, of the protection of victims, but also, and above all, to a particularly important aspect at this time, that of sanctions, repression and measures of a punitive nature which, in our opinion, are now, unfortunately, seeing every day episodes of violence and truly tragic and brutal crimes committed against women, concern the deterrent effect that the application of the penalty and of a precise sanctioning regime must have. The tragic, brutal episodes we have witnessed and witness every day for the cruelty and bitterness with which they are exercised deserve in fact, even from a judicial, criminal and sanctioning point of view, maximum severity and maximum rigidity. Well aware of the fact that, however, our system has also made important steps forward - I am thinking of the very significant introduction of the stalking crime - I would also like to stress the fact that precisely in these days we are examining the Chambers a measure that would almost solve the problem of the overcrowding of prisons, a question that should be addressed - it had to be addressed even before - in an organic and different way, and not thinking of forms of indult and amnesty that would take out of prison precisely those who are stained with these infamous crimes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S Groups]] And on this occasion too, I would like to stress our utmost attention. In fact, it is not conceivable that we introduce into the criminal order that in the past did not exist, such as the crime of stalking and not only (I think of cases of sexual violence and how much, and much, there is to do), and then we find ourselves out because freed, precisely those who fall under the punishment regime for these heinous crimes, for the simple reason that we cannot face the problem of overcrowding prisons. In our country, if on the one hand in the last ten years the total number of murders has decreased, on the other hand it must be pointed out that the number of murders committed against women has increased, and has increased alarmingly. The 2012 data indicate that more than 120 victims were registered in Italy. In most cases the perpetrators of such crimes are linked to the victims by a family relationship, i.e. a parental relationship: most of the time such cases (violence from a physical and psychological point of view or abuse of women) take place in a family, domestic context. Among other things, in 2012 the Pink Phone reached, at national level, 1,562 calls of women abused and, in the first six months of 2013, the number increased alarmingly. It is good, therefore, to come to the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which we shall be talking about later, which certainly marks a very important step forward. However, I would like to point out that this Convention (we shall then examine in detail its terms) requires ratification by at least ten Member States to be effective, applicable and effective. With Italy, to date, there are only five states. For us, therefore, it is essential to ratify it quickly, so that, in Europe, the need for ratification by the other European States can proceed immediately, as a matter of urgency. In the case of women, crimes are committed which lead to the adoption, in common language and terminology, of the term, not particularly appreciable but significant, of feminicide, to indicate the murders committed against women as women, or murders of women, girls or girls committed by partners, former partners or fathers who do not accept the decisions or emancipation of their daughter. The specific nature of this phenomenon therefore makes it necessary to introduce into the penal code an ad hoc crime, which is precisely that of the crime of feminicide. The fact that crimes are perpetrated, for the most part, on the basis of a relationship of affection or acquaintance of an explicit woman a social dimension of violence that must really be analysed and leads us to state clearly that repression, punishment in an effective and rigorous manner of the guilty is certainly not sufficient. We need to act on the prevention and above all on that of cultural education, finally making our society and the country a change of register, a change especially cultural. In recent years, it is true, our country has undertaken to ratify numerous conventions, showing itself compared to others - as I have already said - more attentive and sensitive to policies of this kind. I am thinking of the ratification in 1985 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women adopted by the UN General Assembly, or the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women, as well as other acts referring to sexual violence and genital mutilation. We come to consider very broad and complex phenomenologies that draw our attention to what must be a different approach from the cultural point of view. In our country, despite the dramaticly alarming extent of the phenomenon, there is, for example, no commission for the analysis and monitoring of data on violence against women. This is a shortcoming which, however, is added to other problems, with respect to which we intend to draw the attention of the Government - which has made itself available and has expressed a certain sensitivity on the subject - in order to act promptly and immediately, first of all on the prevention and protection of victims. If the criminal acts of violence against women (physical violence but also psychological violence) take place in a domestic family context, it must be remembered that they are also often linked to a situation of impotence of women from an economic point of view, of inability to maintain themselves. Action must therefore also be taken by investing a great deal in education in schools and schools, but also in the field of resources, which must be fully recovered in order to support anti-violence centres and institutions of protection, which are absolutely fundamental because on the territory they make a real contribution to all women victims of violence. We therefore ask the Government to commit itself to continuing the programme aimed at combating the phenomenon of violence against women by promoting, also through appropriate funding, the support of the rights of the anti-violence centers present on the national territory; to implement initiatives aimed at promoting the knowledge and effective application of the legislation in the field of gender violence; to promote the most effective initiatives, from the procedural and legal point of view, to combat in a concrete way all these forms of violence against women and to assume with speed, even in the processes, the vision of how indispensable it is to guarantee effective judicial protection to the victims. Therefore, with motion No 56, which I hope can be shared and signed by other colleagues, we ask for a precise commitment to the Government because it is no longer possible to consider this phenomenon simply as marginal: there is a real social alarm. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u8	It is registered to speak Senator Mussolini, who in the course of his speech will also illustrate motion 64. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u9	Mr President, I am very pleased that, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, we are dealing with such an important and sensitive issue: it was done in the House and we are doing it in the Senate. Unfortunately, I would like to draw attention to some data: taking up what Mr Fattorini said, since the beginning of the year 60 women have been killed as women; during the weekend in Afghanistan women have been blown up on a bus because they were going to university and women are still denied the right to study; and then, there are still so many violence. And then, someone might ask what the point of this convention is. In this context, I would like to refer to some of the issues that are of great interest to me. The Convention also contains innovations that can and will have to stimulate our order: I am talking for example about gender-based violence, an issue that has also been mentioned by my colleague Mr Bisinella. I would also like to say that every motion has had the contribution of all of us: it is for a formality that two motions have been tabled, because in fact in spirit it is as if it were a single motion. We've been talking about feminicide. Let's start using this word. We wanted to include in a bill the aggravating circumstance of feminicide, the so-called feminicide crime, which not only affects murder but is spread over various articles of the penal code. This is important to give a clear signal in terms of gender violence, which is not just domestic violence. I would also like to mention a very important point, so that we do not just have words. It is true, as my colleague said, the economic figure. I am sorry that there is no Minister for Equal Opportunities because, as Mrs Fattorini pointed out, I remember that shelter houses have a cost; measures for the protection and protection of women have an economic cost. Civil compensation, economic compensation, ladies and gentlemen, is a very important issue: when the victim also suffers physical suffering and the rapist, the perpetrator, the guilty person cannot cope with civil compensation, it could be replaced by the State. These are economic costs. The training of professional figures, for this universe, which is the crime against women, violence against women, also has a cost. Above all, I would like to stress one aspect that is contained both in the motion of the League and in our joint motion: the disproportion between the defence and the prosecution. The woman has a few times, but rarely, legal aid, which we were the ones to insert, while the suspected rapist - let's call it that - or the group of rapists an exceptional defensive college. There is therefore both quantitative and qualitative disproportion between prosecution and defence. Colleagues, it is very important that this principle be reaffirmed. Among other things, there is an innovation, a very important reflection of the Convention, which we also refer to in the motions, namely, without prejudice to the freedom of expression and information, the Internet. As you know, there are many cases of violence on the Internet: there are even women, and not only, who have committed suicide because of degrading content within the Internet. Here, on this too we must be ready with a law that is cutting-edge, in step with the times. I repeat, without prejudice to the right to free expression, there must be no violence of formal content against women and children, especially as regards the Network, which has become an object almost of desire, a very important element, an important instrument. Many colleagues have asked me why in this parliamentary term - and this is a related issue, why are we talking about trafficking and violence - we are not beginning to talk, act and finally make a law against prostitution, to regulate prostitution? Why do we keep pretending that it doesn't exist and we close our eyes, when each of us in our own municipality sees this phenomenon so serious, with girls getting smaller and smaller? We have to deal with this, and in the past legislation we were almost a step away from the adoption of a text. We need to go back, because we need regulation. Prostitution exists; we all wish it did not exist, but it does exist. So let us address this sensitive issue, since all the other countries of Europe, especially those in Northern Europe, have done so. I would like to add another consideration to what my colleague from the League has said. I, for example, urge the Commission to investigate the harmonization of our legal system with respect to the Istanbul Convention. This must be done, and I also urge, as has been pointed out, an interministerial structure, because women, as well as children, do not deal with it: no Ministry actually has a specific competence, because after all - if they have not changed the delegation - the Minister of Equal Opportunities has a limited delegation to female prostitution. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you on one point, I must say. Let us remember that we are at the forefront of many laws, including in Europe. I don't want to use a term, but I want to draw attention to one point. If you have the text of the Convention, ladies and gentlemen, go to Article 36 (sexual violence, including rape) paragraph 1 (a). I would like to remind you that in our order, a state-of-the-art order with regard to the law against sexual violence, of which I was rapporteur in 1996, we speak expressly - because all of us women made this choice - of sexual acts, without going to specify how and when, because a woman, during the trial, must not again undergo a morbid and perverse interrogation, whether there is one thing or not. And I don't want to say what's there. [[Applause from the PdL and PD Groups]] But unfortunately the Convention returns to this old concept; you have to go and see it. I have stayed a little bit, not perplexed, but much more. Attention, because we in Italy are at the forefront and you must not return, during the trial, to say that, if there was not this, it means that it is not sexual violence, because we go back. We, when we did the law, changed the crime: obviously not a crime against morals, but a crime against the person. Then the person, especially during the trial, must be protected in his dignity, otherwise we begin to say, as in the famous sentence: If you have tight jeans, it means that you were consenting: you had to take them off. Stuff, Mr. President, that they condemned me. You think, the cassation... I'm not even telling you what I did. Whatever. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]] I'm not even gonna tell her. So, ladies and gentlemen, I shall end by saying that this debate is a very good one. This Convention, which must be an example to all, and also to political parties, is fundamental, because what we are seeing in some parties, where people are being sent away with acts of violence, without anything happening, is huge. This too should be included in the Convention. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups and Senator Mastrangeli.]] Someone, hedgehog, standing outside - the two hedgehogs - should read it. So I really hope that there will be maximum sharing and that together with ratification, that - as my colleague Mr Fattorini rightly said - then it will have to be accepted and ratified by all the other countries, there can be an adaptation of our order, beautiful, cooked and eaten, fast, because we in Italy - I repeat - are at the forefront, and this article 36 could save it. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI groups and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u10	The students of the Seminary of parliamentary studies and research are present in the gallery "Silvano Tosi" in Florence, accompanied by Professor Paolo Caretti. They have a wish for good work and a greeting from the Presidency and the House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u12	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I am exaggerating in saying that I am very happy to speak in order to make my modest contribution to the approval of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Happy because it is one of the first measures of this legislature, and therefore destined to characterize it anyway; happy because it happens in a Parliament particularly renewed in the presences and in which the most distinctive sign, and I hope even more lasting, of this renewal is constituted precisely by the significant presence of neo-elects; happy because I consider it imperative that this battle not only remains confined among the right demands of women, but can see next to them all possible men, starting above all from those who are engaged in the institutions and who represent them. We have been indifferent too long. From the Rat of the Sabine onward we let violence against women become a real massacre. With the ugly term feminicide we are today used to appeal to the virtually daily torment that arm the hands of men against their companions. The institutions have not yet responded adequately, which is why the massacre probably does not stop. The chronicles tell us every time about phenomena not occasional and never extemporary, but structured episodes, sometimes premeditated with care and executed with unimaginable coldness. Episodes on which it is difficult to intervene because even in advance it often rises, precisely from the ignorant victims, a protective curtain made of shame and fear, sometimes even of protection against its own executioner. Now, it is said, it is time for zero tolerance. But so that this statement is not merely empty rhetoric, it is necessary that zero tolerance corresponds to a thousand the value of prevention, otherwise the risk is only that of a hollow purpose or an edict of paper. The cultural matrix in which the almost totality of the episodes is framed is almost always the same, that of an improper sense of possession, ancestral or tribal that is, for the sister, the wife, the beloved, the lover, the woman, in short, as companion other from us, to which one does not grant the claim, or the request, whispered, shouted or begged, the attempt of an autonomous freedom of speech, of thought, of feeling or of love, before even for the other, different from us, for themselves. It is therefore a fundamental aspect of culture and respect, in a word of education, to which man systematically lacks. It is the place of the domestic walls, the place of protection par excellence to be violated and desecrated. Behind the darks of our homes is often a silent suffering, lives made of abuse and pain inflicted on women who have not been to the covenants, who have come out of the groove of the rules assigned. The killer or the assailant is almost always the husband, lover or loved, betrayed or rejected, distanced or discovered. In any case, it is always the gesture and blind action that overcomes a relationship no longer recoverable with words and to which the force of violence tends inexorably to restore submission and domination and, when this is no longer possible, suppression precisely, in the most barbaric ways and forms. What is more insulting is even the posthumous removal of the crime: many of these in fact are often silenced or relegated to generic news events. It is no longer possible to accept that all this continues to be consumed under indifferent eyes and distant ears. From tomorrow, with the ratification of this Convention, it must be clear that when a man fights a woman it is not a private or domestic fact because it is consumed in the four family walls. From tomorrow those beatings and screams call into question our conscience and question our degree of civilization. The Istanbul Convention is only a first step, a necessary condition, but absolutely not sufficient. From tomorrow it will be essential to promote truly training policies for all those involved in the reception, recovery, defence and protection of women who suffer violence, a task force - it has been said - that puts in the network the police stations, the emergency personnel, the legal offices, the courts, the anti-violence centers. It is necessary to encourage the formation of specialised sections for the organisation of prosecutors, in order to deal with situations of violence as a priority. Above all, a new consciousness needs to be matured with cultural objectives that must be placed in schools of every order and grade, from motherhood to university, through the press, on television and on the network. It was important and significant, for our country and for this Parliament, to ratify this Convention quickly, but if we do not want everything to be reduced only (even if it is not little) to a fine gesture we must give continuity of action. That is why I call on the Presidents of the House and the Senate to immediately launch a Commission or a Committee (without charge for the Chambers) which will network the Justice, Social Affairs, Health and Culture Commissions, so that in certain times it will establish a list of priorities, make the laws operational and prepare regular checks on its actual implementation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u13	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u14	Mr President, Madam Representative of the Government, my fellow Senators and Senators, as a senator, as a person engaged in the institutions, and primarily as a woman, I have always had at the heart of my political, institutional and civil society commitment to combating violence against women. The feminicide, the murders of the woman as a woman, that is, the murders based on gender, that is, most of the murders of women and girls are a barbaric act with which every day we are confronted, in the faces and stories of women that we could see next to us in everyday life and that instead we find unfortunately as terrible facts of news in the newspapers. These are violent facts, a chilling and terrible violence, immersed in a daily life of oppression, contempt and lack of respect for human rights; they are repeated facts, sometimes unnecessarily denounced, other times accepted as an inescapable evil, as a destiny, which - I remember - led to the death in our country 124 women in 2012: a massacre and a continuous Stillicide, of which unfortunately we are only aware when a woman dies. A widespread and continuous violence pervades our society and is considered ordinary. That is unacceptable, and we must say it forcefully. We must not forget the figure reported by the House of Women, according to which 40% of women killed in Italy last year had already suffered violence prior to the feminicide. It may be incorrect, but there are certainly many women who have been killed after years of violence and denounced it. This, however, is not a destiny; violence and oppression are not a destiny; prejudices are not a destiny. Ladies and gentlemen, today in this House, with the ratification of the Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, we are only taking a first step out of this sad reality, but an important step. The Convention recognises violence against women as a violation of human rights and as a form of discrimination; it establishes a clear link between the objective of gender equality and the objective of eliminating violence against women. It is a first act by which we are all committed to solving an endemic problem of our society, including by promoting the change of behaviour, encouraging men and children to prevent violence, by ensuring that culture, customs or religion are not used as a pretext for justifying it, but above all by promoting programmes and activities aimed at increasing the autonomy and emancipation of women. It is an act that puts the victim at the centre by creating a form of risk assessment and management and even more effective punitive action. The aim is to avoid that we can repeat facts like those described by Gian Antonio Stella on the "Corriere della Sera" from a few months ago. I remember, for example, Emiliano Santangelo, who just got out of prison, killed the girl who had sentenced him for sexual violence; Paolo Chieco, who, sentenced to 12 years, then reduced to 8 years, for attempted murder of the cohabitant Anna Rosa, gets the house to 300 meters from her house and ends killing her; Luigi Faccetti who, sentenced to 8 years for attempted murder of the girlfriend, after just ten months gets home and kills her with 66 stab wounds. These rules of prevention, protection and punishment (three "p") are important, and I urge Parliament here, all of us, to ensure that these measures are implemented, even when the Convention enters into force. I also urge the Government to commit itself to achieving in Europe the number of ratifications necessary for the entry into force of the Convention. The Convention is only a starting point, but important, because violence is finally recognised as a violation of human rights and because it mentions prevention, training and education as elements to combat this violence and to combat gender discrimination. In a beautiful and famous book, which I have seen since I was a little girl on my mom's bedside table, entitled "From the part of the girls" the author Elena Gianini Belotti wrote: The prejudices are deeply rooted in the custom: they challenge time, corrections, denials because they present a social utility. Human insecurity needs certainties, and they provide them. (...) are transmitted as indisputable truths since childhood and are never denied afterwards. The individual internalizes them in spite of them, and is the victim of both the one who formulates them and keeps them alive against the other, and the one who is struck and branded. If we could, through education, highlight these prejudices and re-educate the new generations to respect people, regardless of their sex, we would have made this country better, not only for women or girls, but also for men and for the society in which we live. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Mussolini and Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u15	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u16	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, signed in Istanbul on 11 May 2011, is the first legally binding international instrument aimed at creating a comprehensive regulatory framework to protect women against any form of violence. The Convention recognises a principle that should be obvious: violence against women is a violation of human rights. It also intervenes specifically in the field of domestic violence, which affects not only women, but also other subjects, such as children and the elderly, to which the same protection rules apply. The rapid calendarisation of the bill of ratification denotes a deep political commitment, which is also intended to be pursued in this legislature. Despite the seriousness and frequency of the news events concerning violence on women, it is good to point out that, in our country, the actions of contrast do not start from scratch, but that today we must continue the path started in the XVI legislature with the introduction of the crime of stalking and the aggravating to the crime of murder (women were given the legal sponsorship, instead removed from the mafia), with the launch of the national plan against gender violence and stalking, with the protocol of understanding signed by the then minister Carfagna with the Institute of advertising self-discipline on 26 January 2011 for the protection of the dignity of women and the not incitement to violence in advertising messages and, not least, with the presentation of the bill, at the first signature of Senator Mussolini, introducing aggravating circumstances in the feminicide. Particularly important is the wide scope that the Convention devotes to prevention, which requires, first of all, a profound cultural change, because the roots of this violence have a cultural matrix. For this reason, alongside the necessary legislative measures, it is necessary to promote awareness-raising campaigns, to promote new educational programmes and to train appropriate professional figures, involving all the actors in society, starting from school. (17.39) (Following RIZZOTTI). In the final analysis, it is necessary to strengthen support for victims and minors who have witnessed acts of violence, with an organic network at a territorial level that is homogeneous throughout the territory and able to provide adequate socio-assistant support, both multidisciplinary and multi-professional, with the involvement of health personnel, law enforcement, social services, local authorities, first aid, associations. Of course, all this has a cost, as was said in an intervention earlier. Well, violence against women has a high price in terms of costs borne by the community, which in Italy have never been officially calculated, as has been done in several countries. A summary calculation is due to the Council of Europe, which speaks of 2.4 billion a year only in Italy to cope with the phenomenon and 33 billion if the annual expenditure incurred throughout the old Continent is calculated. The fight against violence requires a choral effort. In addition to institutional intervention with the introduction of legislative measures and adequate support, including in terms of resources, I would like to make an appeal here to the press and one to the judiciary. At the first, for the way the news is conveyed. When I read titles like "She leaves him and he kills her," it seems as if the woman has provoked her own executioner, in short, "that she has gone looking for her." It is a dangerously distorted message, which can help to leave many cases of violence consumed in the home or among the most intimate affections. Women who are victims or perpetrators of crimes. What terms do the media use to describe them? Can the language used influence the judgment of the public? I think so. I also appeal to the judiciary to demand certain times to prosecute these serious crimes. According to data from the Ministry of Justice, in 2010 the average duration of preliminary investigations on sexual violence, which ended with a referral to trial, was 373 days, about 400 days, to which more than 580 days are added to arrive at a judgment of first instance; when it's okay, more than three years. I would like to make one of my thoughts; for months we have been thoroughly informed about a trial in Milan, where there is no victim and there is no complaint, but the time between preliminary investigations and the judgment of first instance, expected for June 24, is just over a year and a half. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] A sentence that seems already written from the beginning of the trial, for how it was conducted and, perhaps, also for this reason, only four out of ten Italians have declared that they have confidence in justice. It comes to mind, contrary to all this, that in a municipality of Viterbo, Montalto di Castro, a girl, seven years after the group violence that she suffered from eight of her peers, in the light of the continuous referrals, withdrew the complaint and declared: "If I had known that it ended this way, I would never have denounced them, and I would have been tired and no longer have the strength to fight for the continuous testing of the torturers, now from the age of the vast majority, without being able to see them, in seven years, sitting on the bench of the accused. Another injury inflicted by slow-motion justice, which discourages women to report, while in other cases, for example, ad personam, there are suspicious accelerations. A spiral of pain, which arouses our indignation, especially in the presence of news such as that concerning the crime of Rubiera, in which the killer, guilty of the murder of the companion, came out of prison exactly a year after the crime for the beginning of the terms of protective custody; in practice because the magistrates did not find the time to fix the first hearing of the trial. In the light of the current scenario, I believe that it is unanimous that the ratification of the Istanbul Convention is only the starting point of a much broader commitment that must be declined in the most appropriate measures and fora in order to stem, in a structural and not only emerging way, violence against women. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u17	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank my colleague Mr Fattorini for the thoroughness of her report and the profound understanding of the issues covered by the Convention. In all the speeches I have heard, it has been reiterated by all the speakers that violence against women is a violation of their rights, and in particular a violation of human rights. The conduct sanctioned by the Istanbul Convention is largely already provided for in our penal code, but the instruments of criminal protection are not sufficient: the cultural dimension in which the climate of violence against women is proliferating must be addressed. I was delighted to hear about cultural prevention by my colleague from the Democratic Party, Senator Filippi. However, only one man in this debate is insufficient: I want to hear the senators' voice on this subject [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] , because women in this country are killed by men and it is not conceivable to relegate the debate to an issue that concerns senators or MPs. I hope, Mr Calderoli, that there will be other fellow Members who are registered to speak to, in addition to Senator Filippi, whom I welcome. However, I would like to take a step back and look again at criminal protection. In the bill on feminicide, to which my colleague, Mrs Puglisi, is first signatory, there are certainly some sharpenings. I hope - and I have also spoken to Mrs Mussolini and many other senators - that the President will soon give this draft law (I am glad to be able to ask for it publicly) to the Commission for justice, precisely in order to deepen the criminal aspects. I would point out that the text uses the term used in the penal code for criminal offences. In order not to think wrong, I believe that this was perhaps done out of imprudence, imprudence or negligence, but there are too many cases of women who have been left unheard after they denounced and exposed themselves. Yet their cases remain in the police stations, in the judicial or public security authorities, in the emergency rooms and in hospitals. There are cases of stalking, mistreatment that are reported, but nothing happens. And so, after the second or third request for help, women are killed. It happened in Acilia a few weeks ago: after the fourth exhibition a woman was killed by the man who four times she had tried to have the judicial authority prosecute. I leave the conclusion to this debate, but someone will have to shed light on this failure of the public authorities. I shall now take a step forward and return to the text of the Istanbul Convention, which identifies in the Ministry of the Interior the person who is to monitor the implementation of the Convention. Information campaigns and the establishment of observers are planned. Mr Idem has done well to propose a task force, but I do not think that is enough. It is not enough, if we do not get to root in the territories, in the municipalities, in the places where we also make formation a real culture, starting from concrete examples. I am thinking of good practice: Mrs Idem can find some examples in many municipalities, such as that of Rome, which, thanks to a resolution, obliges the mayor to become a civilian side by side with women who are victims of violence. The City of Rome, moreover, prohibited the advertising detrimental to the dignity of women in its municipal spaces. So, let's make sure that the good practices that associations and many municipal councillors have imposed in their municipalities are used by the Ministry. Dr. Rauti has been appointed advisor for policies to combat gender violence and feminicide. After what we said and after the mutism that we recorded in the House and the Senate - I hope not in the next speeches - I would also like a man to be appointed to deal with the Istanbul Convention. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and PdL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u19	His auspiciousness is immediately reaped.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u21	Mr President, I did not ask to speak because I am a man and not a woman, but to make very few comments. I was reminded of a debate in which I participated during the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, in which rape was used for the purposes we all know. One of the arguments used by those quiet minds who resorted to rape was that women were getting dirty. Women, in my opinion, are victims physically and morally, but they certainly do not get dirty: what gets dirty in these actions is our category. I believe that we must have the humility to admit that many times we have difficulties in expressing our feelings about these problems. This difficulty is what I feel at the moment, but we must be aware of it, because I think that many men feel, themselves, polluted and stained by violent actions against women, even if they do not express it easily. Two brief comments. I really thank Mrs Fattorini for her excellent report. I think we all need to reread it, because it wasn't listened to as it deserved. I would like to draw attention to a risk: I would not want this ratification and its debate to put us in peace and make us feel that we have solved the problem. It is, on the other hand, a problem that must engage us every day in our work as legislators, but also in society, in the face of all the violence that we sometimes see without intervening. The law can't solve everything. Mrs Fattorini spoke of media over-exposition of the subject. I would like to talk about another overexposition, although I do not know whether one day we can legislate on this point: how can we continue to accept that some television broadcasts focused on serious acts of violence, which reach the point of feminicide, can turn into investigative magistrates if not even in courts, to get some more share points? Last week - also because of this I asked to intervene - my wife pointed out to me, in one of my rare passages at home, that for days, for a week, commercials have passed in a magazine that, browsing the pages, showed the young woman who was killed and burned alive by a peer. Isn't this violence? To sell some extra copies? For a few more share points? I believe that the law is not enough, but we need to be aware of our duties: we as legislators, but also all the actors in society. I conclude by saying that this debate, dear President, must not be reduced to jokes on party issues and interests. The Members have provided important data: they must not be reduced to small instrumental polemics about the political situation of the parties currently at stake in this parliamentary term. I do not think it is useful and worthy of the debate that needs this issue. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u22	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u23	Senators, senators, Mr President, since the post-war period Italy has experienced a kind of renaissance, which has allowed its people a dizzying evolution in all respects. In our society, the struggle for freedom, emancipation and substantial equality of women dates back to the 1970s, during which great results were achieved with regard to the autonomy of women and the freedom of decision on life, work and motherhood. In our country, in particular, the fundamental steps were those of the right to vote, in 1946; of the protection of mothers workers, with Law No 1204 of 1971; the Law on divorce of 1970; the laws on equal treatment between men and women and on the voluntary termination of pregnancy, 1977 and 1978. These laws, for which I fought firsthand during those years, allowed me to grow up in a dignified way my two children and at the same time to lead a decent and free existence. In recent years, on the other hand, it seems that the reformating push that has fueled the emancipation of women has run out. Women, who had succeeded in the past century, after many battles and sacrifices, to have recognized their cultural, working and social capacities and to free themselves from discriminatory behavior towards them, have been affected by an escalation of inconceivable atrocities. Every day the chronicles inform us of heinous murders, carried out by husbands, cohabitants or strangers, who, because of the loss of the object of their desire, or by pure madness, are fierce on the bodies of poor unfortunate women who do not have the opportunity to defend themselves. Rape, acid, knives: violence is manifested in every way, and not only by subjects from other countries that belong to a culture different from ours, as very often the media would like us to understand, but also by the Italians themselves who have grown in more favorable environmental conditions. Definitely responsible is the lowering of the cultural level, due to the few investments in culture by the Government in recent years and to the poor television information with a low cultural profile, which does not increase the level of education to balanced social relations. Along with the failure to complete women's emancipation in our country, politics has also been involved. In recent years, this Parliament has never been exemplary in encouraging the dignity of women. In fact, some of our former Premier's behaviors, which I never see in this House, have pointed out that the treatment of women has always been, systematically, demeaning and degrading. And I'm not just talking about unhappy sexist jokes, which also have constantly colored public interventions and exits, but about the shameful and debated system in the judicial field that has accustomed us to terms such as tasting girls and final consumer [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Those who have lent themselves to this system for years without speaking verbs, using this House only to make gossip, rather than to fight for women's rights, can be considered even worse. It is quite clear that signing a convention that promotes the fight against violence against women is not enough to solve the problems of the country's mentality, but fundamental must be the example that comes from the institutions. The danger of the Istanbul Convention becoming an empty shell, if not accompanied by a radical cultural change, is not remote: just think that among the first countries that ratified it there is also Turkey which, as we have seen in recent times, is practicing retrograde policies that tend to bring the condition of women back in time, with the threat of introducing laws to prohibit abortion and contraceptive methods. We have the feeling that ratification of the Convention in that country has been used in a completely hypocritical way to silence the reproaches of Europe, but without the real will to implement it in a concrete way. This danger must be avoided in our country and the ratification of the Istanbul Convention must follow a normative path of implementation and education to the culture of respect for women. Mine is a cry of sorrow for all those young, and no longer young, women who have been denied the possibility of living their lives. And what I'm most indignant about is that, for many of these murderers and torturers, the judicial system inflicts mild sentences, thus allowing many to consider themselves authorized to perpetrate further heinousness. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u24	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u25	Mr President, Senators and Senators, the Budget Committee, to which I belong, has been called upon to express its opinion on the draft law ratifying the Convention, and has expressed itself as follows: an opinion which is not an obstacle, but a recommendation to cover the implementing measures. It is clear that Articles 2 and 3 of the draft law are not consistent with each other: it is not credible to want to fully and fully implement the Convention by providing at the same time the financial neutrality clause which provides that the administrative measures necessary for the implementation and implementation of the Convention are ensured with the human, instrumental and financial resources available under existing legislation. This clause would be extremely positive and at the forefront if it were to be the expression of the acceptance of the logic of gender budgets, i.e. a cross-cutting focus on gender issues: this would mean that all sectors of public administration are oriented and sensitive to rebalancing. I take note of this, thinking that from now on police, law enforcement, health and school are magically oriented towards a redeployment of resources for an initial response to the Convention's application. A positive example of this cross-cutting approach was the inclusion in the decree of two points of the Convention: an observatory of criminology analysis on gender violence and, more importantly, the possibility of obtaining the status of residents, regardless of the partner, for women migrants subject to abuse and persecution. So, there was such an attention within a general measure. But is this possible for all the policies envisaged by the Istanbul Convention? The Convention, in Article 1, commits the State to a comprehensive framework of policies and measures to protect all victims. Among the many policies, for example, I take one, the construction of shelters provided for in Article 23: the Parties shall take the legislative or other measures necessary to enable adequate shelters to be easily accessible and in sufficient numbers to provide safe accommodation for victims, in particular women and their children, and to help them actively. In Italy there are 127 centers, of which only 61 are real refuge houses, for a total throughout the country of 500 beds. The European Union recommends one anti-violence center for every 10,000 inhabitants, one emergency center for every 50,000 and 5,700 beds in shelter homes for a state like Italy: an economic and organizational commitment more than tenfold compared to the current, especially considering that at present the majority of houses are run by almost voluntary women's associations, with little help from some local authority and some private contribution. I remember my experience in Pinerolo where the association "Svolta donna" does a wonderful job, all based on volunteering provided by women lawyer, doctors and women who manage telephone calls. In this context we must also remember the beautiful countryside of the Waldensian Church, which devotes all its eight per thousand to women abused and persecuted. However, it seems to me quite frankly impossible to think of meeting this obligation without resources. I feel I share what Mariella Gramaglia asked today about "La Stampa" to the Ministre of the task force: to integrate this "dry" law, as they say in parliamentary jargon, or without funding, with a project of economic feasibility. With a real law, then. Implementing measures concerning vocational training, protection measures and other measures cannot certainly be launched without investment. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senators Eat and Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u26	Senator Puglisi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Fattorini and all the colleagues who have spoken so far. Today we are taking an important step: the adoption of the draft law authorising the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. However, I would like to remind you that our country has already ratified many conventions in the past, including, equally important, the New York Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence. But if these principles - like the Istanbul Convention itself advises all states - do not become a legislative act and the legislator does not intervene to transform them into rules, all this will not help to break the chain of violence against women, which - as Senator Fattorini has rightly pointed out, and is written in the Convention - represents a structural phenomenon, a serious violation of human rights. We therefore need to assume the institutional responsibility of our Parliament in this parliamentary term, where the presence of women is wider and more balanced. All together, we must strengthen the Convention and the Minister for Equal Opportunities, together with the task force that has been able to set up, in order to make those principles a standard. First of all, we must ensure that the discrimination provided for in the Mancino law includes also gender discrimination, which would become an assault on the person guilty of feminicide, just as the assisted violence of which minors are victims should be aggravated, as indicated in the Convention itself. Above all, we must give priority in a short time to the treatment of criminal proceedings for violence against women, so that they can come to an end quickly. I then quote the media and actions against them. There have been associations of journalists, such as the one called "JULIA," who are working to equip our country with a code of ethics of the media, who often present cases of feminicide as the result of passionate crimes. I would like to remind you that our country is a late country, which always acts with serious delay: the crime of honour was abolished only in 1981. It is for this reason that we continue to use, even in public representation, a completely wrong language. I ask the President of the Senate, therefore, to schedule as soon as possible, in the Justice Committee, the many legal texts presented against feminicide. We can work together and in the Commission start hearings with the whole vast world of female associationism. We also need funds, the rapporteur is right, because we must urgently implement - as the Council of Europe recommends to our country - the number of shelters and beds and make them suitable. As Senator Cirinna says, we must take advantage of the good practices of territorial realities: where teams of first aid, ASL, women's support centres, associations and equal counselors have already been started, in those situations the number of complaints made by women is increasing immediately. We must work together and above all we can act in the Senate immediately, calendarizing the draft laws that we have deposited, to equip our country with a state-of-the-art text that is inspired precisely by the Convention that we are ratifying. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators of Puglia, Giannini and Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u28	Senator Puglisi, the request you made to the Presidency to schedule the examination of the draft law as soon as possible must be addressed to the relevant Commission Bureau. Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all allow me to thank all those men - and there are many of them, thankfully - who show their respect for women every day. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S Groups]] It seems absurd to have to thank you for something that should instead be obvious, natural and due. Yet today there are still too many men who think of women (wifes and daughters, above all) as a property, an asset to be disposed of at will and that, therefore, can be exploited and mistreated. And so we find ourselves, in the third millennium, having the need to discuss motions and to face ratifications aimed at preventing and curbing violence against women, and especially domestic violence. Legislative interventions are important and gender equality between men and women must be guaranteed and reaffirmed in all institutional fora. So let us welcome the debate we are holding today on the Istanbul Convention, and I am also pleased that we wanted to combine you with the debate on our motion on combating feminicide, but let me say that is not enough. These interventions must be accompanied, supported and supported by a concrete change at the cultural level, [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Violence against women - and, more generally, domestic violence against children and the elderly - must be considered aberrant by everyone, because it is a stroke to the heart for the profound identity of the family and society. It is precisely for this reason that, in motion 56, we also call for initiatives to be put in place to promote the knowledge and effective application of the existing legislation on the protection of human and civil rights and the fight against violence against women, in particular through the promotion of an education programme that must start from the schools of all orders. Respect must be a daily way of life. On the other hand, data show that even in those so-called advanced societies, which boast of the issue of civil rights and gender equality, episodes of gender violence often occur. So we are talking about a specific type of violence against women as such, committed by men in most cases linked to victims by marriage or parenting. This makes this form of violence even more devious and infamous. A 2006 survey reports that 32 percent of women between 16 and 70 years of age have been physically or psychologically abused during their lives (one in three), but only 18 percent of women who have suffered violence consider it a crime. It is estimated that 90% of the abuse, including rape, is still not reported. The Convention we are debating today also identifies a number of crimes - including psychological violence, forced abortion, sexual harassment, forced marriage - that States undertake to introduce if they are not already present in their laws. It provides that these offences are subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions. But that is precisely what I would like to focus on and highlight the confusion that also occurs in our order. Too many times, in fact, there are perhaps high penalties, but then they are not taken for granted, they are cancelled by indults, amnesties, other prison sentences or by the so-called provision empty prisons. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Blundo.]] You understand that these practices are a deterrent to women: what is the spirit of a woman who suffers a violence that then, even if it is denounced, has no result and is not condemned the one who committed it? A woman who suffers such violence must make a huge effort to be able to press charges, and she will not do so if the prosecution is almost nothing. The UN special reportenz Rashid Manjoo also points out that the further damage to women is represented by delays in justice, which render sentences of conviction inapplicable even where there is a complaint of a culprit. Colleagues, this is an alarming fact. It is to say the least disconcerting the fact that happened a few days ago: a girl, who ended up in hospital for beatings received for the umpteenth time by her boyfriend, once discharged, returned to him. Then there is the other case of a raped girl, who was then accused of inciting violence with her overly provocative attire. The cultural issue is central and requires a profound revolution to eradicate gender stereotypes, which are still so rooted in our country. A profound cultural change must be achieved, but it is necessary to start with legal safeguards. From this point of view, our country is certainly among those that most guarantee what is required by the Convention that we ratify today. The legislative and administrative measures adopted in recent years have been important steps. Let us remember, for example, the rules included in the crime against moral freedom, aimed at punishing anyone who compromises the psychological integrity of a person with coercion and threats; the norm aimed at punishing the commission of persecutory acts; the rules included in the crime against life and individual safety, aimed at penalising the intentional behaviour of those who commit acts of physical violence against another person. Yet, despite all these rules, in recent months we have read too frequently on the news pages of serious and serious violence against women. The word "feminicide" has entered the common use and this may perhaps give the impression that the phenomenon has suddenly exploded. The numbers, to say the least alarming, confirm that the events of this kind are numerous, but they are certainly not a phenomenon today. The fact that we talk about it, that there is a unanimous condemnation of the derogatory mentality underlying violence, that we become aware of the phenomena of feminicide is not enough if then women continue to suffer constant physical and psychological pressures at intervals, but it is certainly important to start an honest debate on the subject and to find a chord way to put an end to these crimes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Convention goes back to a number of points on the inacceptability of motivations based on culture, customs, religion, traditions or so-called honor to justify violence, asking States to introduce, here too, legislative measures to combat the phenomena of violence. Let us think, for example, of the marriage imposed by the culture of Muslims present in Italy, as the case of that girl killed by her father just because she had engaged to an Italian boy. Or the tradition of the mutilation of female genitals, spread here also in Italy, which in our opinion is very serious. Or to the veil, which often women of different ethnicities are forced to wear against their will, often imposed with the threat, which harms the dignity of women and represents a form of violence. In our country in the last ten years the total number of murders has decreased, but the number of murders committed against women has increased in a worrying way (data for 2012 in Italy record more than 120 victims). And often these violence, unfortunately, arise in the heart of relationships and family life. That's a lot, too many! It is important to talk about it, but it is even more important to continue to get upset every time: it would be catastrophic to get used to the idea that happens. 18.18 (Follow COMAROLI). It cannot become one of those excessively evoked and condemned phenomena, which paradoxically risk making addicts. This treaty has a high symbolic value for Parliament and for the country: Parliament has endeavoured to accept this document of the Council of Europe, which does not upset the legal architecture of our system, but certainly would like to start a cultural revolution, because it places the problem in the foreground among the emergencies to be addressed. And this House has also wanted to add to other commitments: those provided for in the motions before us today. We therefore want to make it clear that this hateful form of violence is intended to recognize it and not to ignore it; we want to condemn it, without exception, as the vast majority of our fellow citizens want. Let me also add that our motion seeks to pursue the programme aimed at combating the phenomenon of violence against women, promoting the support, including through appropriate funding, of the network of anti-violence centres on our national territory. Today we are discussing these motions and this Convention because we want to find tools to tackle violence against women and domestic violence in a comprehensive way, giving the right place to both legislative and procedural instruments, including procedural assistance and specialised support services, as well as prevention, awareness raising, education and information. The commitment is that the provisions to protect against violence against women be applied both in time of peace and in time of war, knowing well that during conflicts the rules are blown up and the most aberrant behaviors are rampant. The North League will vote strongly in favour of the ratification of the Convention and of the commitments requested in the motions to combat violence against women. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a great deal to be done to ensure that gender equality, recognised by the Constitution, is truly lived in the daily lives of all of us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL, PD, SCpI, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u30	We greet a delegation from the Faculty of Law of the University of Innsbruck, Austria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Maturani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u32	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as has been pointed out by all the previous speeches - and in particular I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Fattorini - the Istanbul Convention is the first legally binding international instrument that establishes as a violation of human rights and as a form of discrimination violence against women. We know, through the data provided by international, European and national organisations, that violence against women is mainly agitated in the family, particularly by partners living together or living together, and it is the first cause of death for women aged 16 to 50, in Europe and in the world, and in our country it is more so than in others. We know how violence against women crosses all social strata and we know that it is hardly ever an expression of the low level of culture, but it is certainly the dramatic consequence of continuing in our society of stereotypes and prejudices over the roles of women and men. The dramatic growth of acts of violence against women has made it necessary to create a new word. It was necessary to find the term that immediately meant its heinousness and the odious, dramatic specificity; it was this urgency that led women to coin the term "feminicide." The previous speakers have said a great deal about the fundamental issues that the Convention sets out in the commitments of the countries that ratify it, so I would like to focus on a specific aspect that concerns the vast scope of prevention and the reception of victims who manage to escape violence. The Convention calls on us to implement the fight against gender violence through policies of prevention, protection and repression, and calls on us to monitor the level of integration of individual policies. This is why I think that the specialized and integrated training of all social, health and judicial workers that meet women in conjunction with the violence suffered and that allows us to undertake with them a path of psychological recovery and above all to regain our full identity. That is why I believe it is important to promote and support, even economically, inter-branch and inter-institutional training processes that promote the recognition of common actions and languages. Unfortunately, we know that so many victims, but also so many executioners, are young, often teenagers. We think that prevention goes mainly through the change of stereotyped cultural models and that school is one of the key areas on which to work to promote a different gender culture. However, the school cannot be entrusted solely with responsibility, but we must also provide support. That is why I would ask you to consider the possibility of setting up psycho-pedagogical accompaniment points in schools open to the reception of children, teachers and families. In this sense there are valuable experiences in many schools in our country, often promoted by local authorities, which would be useful - I think necessary - to spread in a widespread way throughout the national territory. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u33	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fruitful ground on which democracy is built and consolidated, and it is the ground of rights and freedoms, social and subjective. It is the duty of politics to ensure that this land is broad, open, inclusive, to prevent the perimeter from becoming an insurmountable wall of denied rights, reducing democracy to empty, meaningless words. Today, in the century of democracy, there are barriers that all too often force young generations and women in a condition of anomy and childhood: social fractures, lack of work, lack of rights and protection, instruments to emerge and to assert their talent despite and regardless of the place where they were born and the conditions in which they grew up. Over the last thirty years, the ideology of inequality has been a model of social hegemony and has plunged Western societies into a crisis that in turn generates and amplifies inequality and discrimination. In the decline of our society and of our democracy there is an interstice of enormous material and symbolic gravity, the sequel of gender violence, a long and unbearable scar that disfigures the face and soul of our Republic; psychological and physical violence, up to feminicide, all the more profound because it is perpetrated mostly in the family or emotional sphere. Michelle Bachelet, in a beautiful testimony, recalled a saying of when she was a girl in Chile: "He who loves you beats you." It is a saying unfortunately familiar to us too, which recalls the ancestral legacy of feudal bonds never completely defeated nor put to rest, which indeed emerge in these years of crisis, retreat, insecurities and fears that overwhelm certainties, identities and roles of each. In the hurling hand, in the cutting knife, in the acid that corrodes and in the violence that insults the woman there is an attempt to silence a voice, to suppress a subjectivity. Very often freedom is the most intimate, extreme, sometimes painful self-determination that each of us has: that of declaring the end of a history of love, of breaking up a family bond. It is here, in its anthropological scope, the emancipating force of the female revolution, of the thought of difference, which is quintessence of democracy, that only when it promotes citizenship and inclusion can conquer populism and anti-politics. Every time a woman is struck, in a pathetic attempt to restore the symbolic of a manly hierarchy, it is democracy that is affected, and today we establish that this is the most infamous of crimes because it violates human rights and denies the possibility of a new humanism, at the basis of a new coexistence, a new civil education, the value of mutual recognition, of autonomy with respect to the conformism of stereotypes in which the commodification even of the imaginary has again engulfed men and women. Violence and democracy are a radical antinomy. Istanbul, where the Convention has been signed, has been the scene of major events for days. The trees of Gezi Park have become for many, in Turkey, in Europe and in the world, emblem of freedom, not to be eradicated. There is a symbolic image of the protest: a young woman, dressed in red, struck violently by the jet of a hydrant. Behold, to that young woman go the words that Nazım Hikmet dedicated to her companion from her captivity: It will come one day that men will look at one another fraternally with your eyes. I repeat: "They will look with your eyes." Having the eyes of those who suffer violence, of those who are forced on the margins, is our duty in this House today and always. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, SCPI and Senator Liuzzi groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u35	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u36	Madam President, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention represents a decisive step forward that our country takes in the fight against gender violence and in the strengthening of the protection of the weakest, especially women, and that goes alongside the Council of Europe Convention on the protection of children against sexual abuse and exploitation, also known as the Lanzarote Convention, adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 12 July 2007. However, I would like to remind you here that at this stage more will necessarily have to be followed, perhaps the hardest, so that what was decided in Istanbul does not remain a dead letter. It is vital that there is a joint effort to turn the words of the Convention into concrete actions, which constitute effective protection for women and children who are victims of violence and abuse. The dramatic and tragic events of recent years impose this on us. In this regard, I believe it is absolutely necessary, according to various and competing guidelines, to introduce appropriate amendments to our penal code, in particular with regard to the parties relating to ill-treatment in the family or to children (Article 572 of the penal code), sexual violence (Article 609 bis of the penal code) or to the aggravating circumstances in the case of sexual violence (Article 609 ter of the penal code), thus filling the legislative gaps, where they were, and perfecting and enriching the existing legislation. We will have to transpose Directive 29 of 2012 of the European Union (as also stated in the motion already explained) on the position of the victim in criminal proceedings. We will be able to do so through the 2013 European delegation law, the examination of which we will continue tomorrow in the European Union's political Commission (I have tabled an amendment to that effect, which I hope will be supported). If the rule, the mere rule, is not followed by concrete means and instruments to be able to apply it, it alone is not a sufficient instrument. We must make every effort to ensure that those who are abused are placed in a context of real protection. It is therefore necessary to relaunch instruments such as the Fund for the implementation of a plan against violence against women, set up in the Presidency of the Council by the 2008 Finance Act, which sees the establishment of a national anti-violence network as its cornerstone and whose main aim is to encourage awareness-raising and combating gender violence and to promote the establishment or strengthening of local networks to combat violence and stalking. We also believe that it is essential that law enforcement agencies should be able to act promptly and effectively in the event of abuse of women and, in particular, in the case of stalking, by providing them with the necessary tools and by slimming down the bureaucratic procedures leading their interventions. Finally, we believe that it is essential to start recovery routes for those who carry out these crimes, because the mere detention penalty in itself is not a sufficient instrument to combat such a serious scourge as feminicide. We therefore express our commitment to ensure that the Istanbul Convention does not follow the unfortunate fate of other international conventions that preceded it and soon become an effective and lasting instrument of protection. The route is still long. The fight against gender violence is only in its beginnings and it cannot be thought that legislative violence is the only means to be used. In fact, a true cultural revolution is necessary, starting from us men. We believe, however, that proper transposition into our legal system of what is laid down in the Convention is an essential step towards real change and this intolerable situation is finally being put in an effective brake. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mastrangeli, Verducci and Vaccari]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u37	She's enlisted to speak Senator Spilabotte. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u38	Madam President, the Istanbul Convention which we are preparing to ratify and on which I am already amply, and with a great deal of detail, authoritative colleagues from the senators - fortunately, also my fellow senators - is the first international instrument to legally bind States to the protection of women's rights. The aim is therefore to finally create a comprehensive regulatory framework, capable of combating and preventing all kinds of violence against women and thus to establish a comprehensive framework of policies and measures to protect and assist all victims of violence, in order to enable the competent authorities to act and cooperate effectively at international level as well. The Convention therefore obliges the acceding States to take all necessary legislative measures to protect women who are victims of violence. I would like to remind everyone that last week the European Parliament, meeting in plenary in Strasbourg, adopted a resolution on the fight against organised crime. Traditional criminal organisations over the years have progressively extended their scope of action at international level, and it is now a priority to identify legislative instruments to put in place a strategy for effectively combating the practice of such mafia cartels. I would like to say this because, in the debate on the subject on the agenda and in relation to the content of this resolution, I believe that it is no longer possible to postpone a debate, as Mr Mussolini has already pointed out, which is finally serious about a complex social phenomenon such as prostitution. I believe that our country today must have a law that regulates the exercise of prostitution, going beyond the so-called Merlin law of 1958, obsolete and unsuitable with respect to the contexts in which prostitution is consumed today, even if that law was born from a just reaction to the regulatory policy of the time, which violated the principles of equality and individual freedoms. Such regulation is necessary because it does not regulate or, worse, criminalize or prohibit only produce a substantial differentiation between free choices of self-determination and forced prostitution, exploited, managed by criminal organizations around the world, which manage the trafficking of women, especially minors, exploiting them, subjugating them and subjecting them to unspeakable violence through the use of threat, force and other forms of coercion. The fact that the state prefers non-regulation is certainly not aimed at giving preference to prostitutes, but rather at protecting the privacy of customers and the omrtosa protection of the illegal business that prostitution feeds. I therefore hope that, as of today, after the ratification of the Convention as an international instrument, Parliament will undertake to open a serious and fruitful debate on this matter. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u39	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u40	Madam President, the issue of the dignity of the person and the rights of women as human rights has not insignificant practical consequences. First of all, human right means well-being understood as a union of physical and psychic well-being. It is not acceptable that we are still talking about violence against women only and exclusively when physical violence takes place. I believe that moral violence against women, persecution, stalking and insistence are fully comparable to physical violence. I say this because the first problem we have is certainly a cultural one, but we must also know that violence against women does not know social classes and latitudes. As you know, violence against women every year makes more deaths than cancer and road accidents and cannot stand and cannot stand forms of ethical relativism. This is why, not by chance, the Istanbul Convention places at the centre the issue of migrants, who are today the object of violence, in a significant way also in our country, also because - let's say the truth - from the point of view of health protection, these migrants are very often sisters who do not have a right and access to citizenship, and come from cultures for which it is difficult to go out alone during the day and go, I do not say to denounce, but even to be visited by a gynecologist. It is an extraordinarily great theme because it has to do with the meaning of the family, of love, of the couple and also with that family structure, which precisely has no latitudes and does not know the diversity of cultural ethnic groups, which concerns violence in the home (more than 90 percent, as we know). But why is it important to say that women's rights are human rights? Because they are universal rights and must be able to live in differences in territory, culture and latitude. At the same time, we know that combining different cultures and integrating them means creating a completely new situation in our country. Firstly, by returning to a concept of prevention culture; secondly, by recalling the culture of respect between men and women; thirdly, by recalling the culture of sexuality. I say this word that is the great taboo of this country. I would like to remind you that the first session in which the law on sexual violence was discussed took place in 1958 and was secreted because this issue could not be discussed. And even today we are at this, because in Italian schools we cannot talk about sexuality [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , of self-awareness and of one's own body, of what the love and responsibility of oneself towards the other means: truly gigantic themes. It may be that the laws are not everything, indeed certainly they are not, but without the laws we would never have had that cultural growth that has led in our country to a great advance of civilization on the level of respect and recognition of the freedom of women, freedom in respect of their own body and the intangibility of the female body, if not behind a conscious choice of a woman, freedom in human relations, freedom also for trivial things that are today denied, like being able to go out quietly at night without being afraid to return home and to be attacked. We also need to talk about this issue, because it is an issue that questions our cities and mayors. There is something that I care about from a health point of view. I am sorry that the Minister is not present, but we will make sure that we send her a letter with this request, because I believe that she should meet all the Members as well as the competent authorities, because there are many authoritative powers in here. I am referring to the question of the treatment of rapists. In fact, we always consider the issue only from the point of view - very important, be it clear - of women, of anti-violence centres and of the need to finance these very important structures. However, there is a theme as big as a home to be addressed, relating to the rehabilitation of rapists. If we do not also reason on this aspect (in this regard there are very important experiences in the field), that step forward we must take for the full awareness of men and women about a renewed relationship of respect and trust I believe that it will be delivered only and exclusively to criminal practice and to prison. I believe that - according to the mild law - there is a need for certainty of punishment, but also for rehabilitation. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak because I believe that this is a matter for everyone, not just for one side, and that there is not one part of the sky that must intervene to show sensitivity to the other. I believe it is my duty to dedicate this speech to Mr Kyenge, the subject of unacceptable attacks which fall within the logic of those phenomena which, then, lead to feminicide. I also think that we must look ourselves in the face and recognize that, with regard to the phenomenon of violence against women in Italy, there is a problem of mentality, climate, culture and message that is transmitted by television and not only and that feeds this phenomenon of discredit of the person and, in particular, of the woman. We need to think deeply about this, which goes far beyond the Istanbul Convention: the Convention is a useful opportunity, but we must not stop at this. We cannot think, in fact, that the new generations assume a different sensitivity on this subject if we do not change the type of message, if we do not form them in a free, secular and conscious way to a responsibility, to a maturity from an emotional and sexual point of view and from the point of view of relationships within and outside the family. From this point of view, we need to reflect deeply on the relationship between feminicide and the crisis of the family and living together, because everything that happens, in terms of violence against women within the family or living together, is a disastrous message for children and for society. I believe that - to return to the more formal aspects for a moment - the Convention represents an important opportunity to give further impetus to the application of the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, on the subject of substantial equality, to remove an obstacle which, in fact, stands in the way of the full development of the female personality, but - I would like to say - also of society as a whole. In fact, a civil society cannot tolerate people with more or less opportunities also depending on gender and roles. I believe that the implementation of the Convention is very important and very decisive: this is only one step. We must think about the changes in our legislation, but we cannot fail to see another aspect in this situation as well. With regard to this phenomenon, in fact, there is a dramatic lack, not to say the inefficiency, of our justice system. A thorough reflection must be carried out on this and a real reform process must be started, not a process that stops at buffer measures. Not having a proper system of justice means being unable to give that signal of repression of certain phenomena, which is very important in order to be credible in terms of statements of principle and in terms of legislation, which must ensure that this barbarity is overcome. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u44	Mr President, we are dealing with the phenomenon that has been called "feminicide" not because in our country - where there is certainly a very different situation from that of many other countries, including those that have signed the Istanbul Convention and, even more so, those that have not done so (and it is interesting to see the list of those who have not even signed it and are far from ratifying it) - more women are being killed than men (statistics tell us that 70% of the people killed in Italy are men and 30% are women) but because, within this 30%, there is certainly a significant percentage of women who are killed precisely as women, as victims of an attitude of overwhelmment by some. It is also interesting to note, rather, that, by examining the total number of murders in Italy, 91 percent are committed by men and only 9 percent are committed by women. Since it is clear that it is not that women commit less murders because they succeed less for a physical strength tending to be a little less, but because there are actually fewer ones. From this point of view, men in general, but especially those who commit these crimes, have to learn from the general behavior of women, even statistically comparing the data. Therefore, it is important to isolate, from the conceptual point of view, the phenomenon of the killing of women as such, because, in some cases (of course not in any murder of women), it shows an attitude of oppression, which sometimes implies violence of other types, which are certainly more numerous than evidenced by the data we have heard and which we know. 18.54 (Follows MALAN). However, we must also avoid confusing the pathological with the general situation of our society. Frankly, I do not believe that in Italy there is constantly and everywhere a climate that favors and that in some way justifies and encourages a violent attitude towards women, on the contrary. We must also say the positive things: our country in general has an incidence of murders lower than the average of other countries. We also have fewer murders than many of those countries which have, in terms of equal rights between men and women, a more consolidated historical situation than ours. It is also necessary to avoid attitudes of an overly pedagogical state. I find some examples precisely in the preamble to this Convention, the text of which I believe is not only to be accepted, but to be signed and strongly sustainable. In the preamble there are some expressions that can certainly be valid in other countries, but frankly I would have really difficulty in the case of our country to say the same. We read, for example: By recognizing the structural nature of violence against women as gender-based, and also by recognizing that violence against women is one of the crucial social mechanisms by which women are forced into a subordinate position with respect to men. I do not think that in our country women are forced to a social situation subordinate to men, but certainly, if there are situations in which one can see an attitude of subordination or prevarication of one another, I do not think it is violence, but rather some cultural heritage that affects not only men, but also women sometimes led to give up positions or careers, to come forward for things for which they have talent and ability, much more than violence. Sometimes, this politically correct throng that exudes from many of these documents and, in particular, from the cultural substratum that inspires them, I think it should be taken with caution. Another part of the preamble refers to relations of historically unequal force between the sexes, which have led to domination over women and discrimination against them by men and prevented their full emancipation, and notes that all this manifests itself in violence against women. Surely it has happened in our past and happens in other countries, but now I would say that this expression is also difficult to support for our country. I believe that we must avoid marrying whole philosophies that are, in some ways and from a strictly cultural point of view, a little extreme. Having said that, it is even obvious - it seems strange to say so - to argue that violence in general and, in particular, against women by men can only arouse the strongest sense of execration, disgust and repugnance. Turning back to the cultural aspect, many of the preambles and statements contained in this Convention seem to take as an axiom the concept that violence on women is a port of ancient society - where there were undoubtedly very different roles and, tends to be a subordinate of women to man - and the only antidote to this violence is the total equality between man and woman not only from the point of view of the law - and we would miss it: we have it in our Constitution for 65 years - but also the promotion of a cancellation, as provided for in Article 12 of the Convention, of any cultural attitude that presupposes a subordinate role of women compared to man and any stereotype of woman's specificity compared to man. In other words, it can no longer be said that a woman does better a job because it would imply a cultural specificity. More rightly, it cannot even be said that a woman cannot carry out a certain profession because she is not brought. These attitudes give us a perhaps a little bit of a Manichaean view of the matter. I would like to end my speech with a figure which apparently has nothing to do with it. One hundred and one years ago women could vote in very few countries of the world, including the State of Wyoming, for a bizarre controversy that took place in the 1960s; they were undoubtedly discriminated in many ways in many countries and certainly also in ours, in Britain and the United States where, precisely, women did not vote (they would have obtained the right to vote shortly in those States). Well, when the Titanic was shipwrecked, as we know, there was not enough lifeboats and, therefore, it was natural to expect - as in fact happened - the race to secure a place on them. At the time, however, there was a rule that still exists today, although it is now a little less demanding: first women and then men. Today giving priority to a woman in front of an entrance or opening her door is an act of courtesy, a nice act; at the time, instead, giving priority to a woman meant guaranteeing her salvation and assigning man to death. Well, that society that did not recognize women many rights - it would recognise them little by little: there was a great movement in this sense - on the contrary, that in many respects kept women in a condition of inequality, caused less than 20 percent of men to get on the boats and be saved, while more than 70 percent of women were led and encouraged to get on those boats to save themselves. It is not, rightly, only the egalitarian culture of today that tells us that violence against women is a horrible act, but also the best values of a society and a different tradition that has evolved in modern society tell us so. Those values also lead us in the same direction, that is to condemn the horror of violence against women, condemning also in our culture and that is not a finding of the last 100 years. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u45	As agreed, I give the floor to Senator Nencini who asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked and agreed with the President of this House to bring forward an issue which I would have liked to have been referred to, but which we are debating at this stage of our work. It's about the expulsion of Senator Adele Gambaro, rea of having given an interview to a private television. My assessment is that this is a public fact which has very clear institutional evidence. It is not a private fact; it does not belong to the internal life of a party, even if, if it belonged to it, it would still be amendable, rather condemnable. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and PD]] My view, Mr President, is that a fundamental constitutional freedom, freedom of thought, is being violated, and that the expulsion from a parliamentary group and not from a party is a significant turning point. Parliamentary groups on the one hand of Italian jurisprudence are regarded as parties. I am well aware of the controversy that has arisen over time and I know, for having studied it during the night and this morning, the controversy that has been built over time: Groups considered by a certain jurisprudence similar to parties. On the other hand, I belong to the branch of those who believe that the parliamentary groups do not have the nature of the parties. Parliamentary groups are an expression of a parliamentary structure. They are parliamentary groups. In their constitution they respond to rules. If those rules are not complied with, you correctly, Mr President, by applying the rules, do not allow the establishment of a group, as your own colleague, President of the House, does not allow the House of Deputies. Here we are even faced with an even more particular case, because we are in the presence of a sort of censorship, that is, a sort of pre-emptive denial of the expression of an opinion, therefore the fact that we do not correspond to a constitutional principle that the constituents have protected in Article 21 of the Charter: freedom of thought. I address three questions to you, Mr President, and to our colleagues. I want to know if we are in the presence of an anti-democratic and anti-liberal regulation of the Five Star Movement. I would ask you whether you are in the presence of a regulation which has such characteristics and whether it can be compatible with the democratic and liberal nature of the Senate in which each of us sits. Finally, I would like to ask you whether - and this is the case - the Rules of Procedure of the Groups should be based on the logic that inspired those who wrote the Constitution: such a clear, so clear and clear logic that there is absolutely no need for debate in this House. On the contrary, it reminds me, seeking and searching, that that custom and behavior are children of another Charter and of another article: not of Article 21 of our Charter, but of Article 35 of the Constitution currently in force in China. Article 35 guarantees freedom of speech, but that Constitution obliges you to read this article in conjunction with the general principles. This is exactly what happens between statute and reference to the principles that guide the Five Star Movement. When these principles are at odds, in opposition to the main document, it is not possible, and therefore prohibited, freedom of speech and expression. It cannot by norm be exercised that freedom. I believe that the groups are different from the parties and that within this House they must have regulations inspired by the parliamentary democracy to which we have been educated. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI), PD and PdL and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u49	MALAN (PdL). Mr President, I understand the reasons why Senator Nencini raised this issue in this House. I also consider it sacred that everyone, and a senator in particular, should be able to express their thoughts with all the means he thinks. I also believe that Article 67 of the Constitution on the freedom to exercise its parliamentary role without a mandate is one of the cornerstones of our democracy and democracy in general. I do not think, however, that it is possible for this House to enter into the dynamics of a Group, which at most has the power to expel a senator or a senator and certainly not to make him lose any of the prerogatives which, as a Member of Parliament, he has received with the popular election, prerogatives which no measure of the Group will ever be able to take. Take it off. I hope that here too, because it is a Group representing the will of the people, a balanced decision will be taken and inspired by attitudes of tolerance and freedom. However, I believe that this Group has the opportunity to take decisions, even extreme ones. The Group of which I am a member (and not even the parties that gave rise to the People's Group of Liberty) has never expelled anyone, but we cannot trade in decisions that can be taken by others; we can only hope that both the Group and the Party have a statute which, as the Constitution requires, is inspired by internal democratic principles and that these principles are respected. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u52	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to clarify exactly what has happened, because we in the 5 Star Movement have not at all broken any constitutional principle. We believe in the Constitution, but we also believe that freedom must be accompanied by responsibility. I myself am sitting here next to Senator Gambaro, demonstrating that, unlike what someone might have guessed, there are no Bulgarian breaks or cold-war situations between North and South Korea: there is simply a call to take responsibility for what is said and what is being done. We impose this on ourselves in our own statute, which we also sign freely. Now, as is well known, the majority of the Group of the European People's Party has decided to submit to the network of activists - and this is a mechanism of direct and participatory democracy - the behavior of the senator, but all this respecting the freedoms proper to every Member of Parliament. Every Member of Parliament can make his/her own assessments, but this does not mean that these evaluations could affect the unity, homogeneity and sharing of the values of the Group to which he/she belongs. We are now considering this and no decision has been taken on it. However, I would like to point out, first of all, to Senator Nencini, whose words I remember when the 5 Star Movement Group occupied this House, that perhaps there are others who deserve even more critical attention. I am in a Chamber in which, for example, elected people are almost always absent and these names, if you like, I would like to give them to you: I think Silvio Berlusconi and I think Niccolò Ghedini. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It seems to me, for example, that in this House too recently there have been phenomena of piano players: from my side - and not only: perhaps even in the constitutional dictation - it says that one is worth one, so if one is to give a vote, not two or more; however, no one has ever intervened in such a strong way. I am of the opinion that we, calmly and surely with calmness, must think about how to rewrite the rules in our being together, but I can assure you that the 5 Star Movement certainly has at heart the instances of freedom of all of us Italian elected and above all of Senator Adele Gambaro. MASTRANGELI (Mixed). What about my expulsion? Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u55	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I do not speak to go into the matter, but only to say that I am surprised in this House, if I may say so. It will also be provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but I think it is completely irrational and wrong to interrupt the logical thread of a debate that we were holding. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups and Senator Carraro]] I have heard in so many speeches that we discuss a topic of great importance, that the whole world looks at us, that all Italy looks at us, but then we interrupt the debate with this lightness [[Applause from the PD, PdL and M5S groups]] to deal with an issue that will also be important in this regard, but on which I do not intend to say a word. I will stop speaking at once and ask if there are any colleagues who want to give up and continue the previous debate after me. We will have other opportunities to talk about the events that have just been raised. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u56	Let us resume the general discussion. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u57	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u58	Senator D'Anna, you can intervene at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u59	[[Senator D'Anna's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u60	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u61	Mr President, I cannot (and I do not want to) forget that, while we are going to vote on an act as important as this Convention, which saw its official birth in Istanbul, today in that same city and in a large part of that country there is a climate of repression and violence and, as the media tell us, in the presence of many sexual violence against young Turkish women. The Convention applies both in times of peace and in times of conflict and is a Convention that aspires to create a free Europe... D'ANNA (PdL). That is not the case, Mr President. This is not democracy! MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, what should I do? Can I continue? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator Mattesini, continue your intervention. MATTESINI (PD). And it is a Convention that aspires to create a Europe free from this violence, and Turkey is certainly not a country outside Europe. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to make yet another appeal from this House to the Turkish Government to stop the repression and to express full solidarity with the Turkish women who have suffered violence and who are at risk of suffering from it again. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Cristofaro]] Coming to the Convention, I think it is useful to stress that it is an indispensable tool for providing a structured network of activities, cultural promotion, prevention and reception for women who suffer violence in all the forms in which it manifests itself, as Senator Di Biasi has pointed out. I stress that the Convention sets out a concrete path that offers every woman the possibility and the right to live free from violence at all times and in every area of her daily life. The importance of the Convention is that there is no mention of individual projects (of which the Italian territories are rich), but it outlines a path that creates and structures in a permanent way a network of activities and services, a network built through a large glue that is that of the formation and co-formation of all institutional and social subjects that are called to promote rather than welcome. Because the effectiveness, and not the words, of the fight against violence requires an important thing, which is called continuity of activities and the construction of a network, formative continuity and continuity of actions. We need a network, because both in the prevention and in the reception a woman who suffers violence has the right to meet qualified and properly trained staff, and, that meets an urban vigilante rather than a social worker or a first aid doctor, has the right to meet staff able to receive it, but also to direct it with respect to the services existing in the territory, and staff that also helps the territories to equip themselves with important services. This permanent activity also concerns prevention, which must be understood as the change necessary to overcome stereotypes. In this sense, for example, interventions at school, permanently, are important elements. To exit - this is the clear message, the clear content of the Convention - from the projects for a permanent and important activity. In this respect, the task force set up by the Minister is an important element, and I believe that concrete support must also come from this House, as some colleagues have done before me, and that there are important powers in this House too. Let me give you an example of consistency. Article 20 of the Convention states that the parties must take the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that victims have access to social and health services and that such services must have adequate resources and trained professionals. And then approving the Convention in this House today is an important act, but just as important is to feel committed to consistency and thus respect a pact with Italian women. For example, it is also necessary to refinance activities and services, such as shelter houses and the pink first aid network, whose funding has been cut off, in the decree of doing and in the regulatory acts that we will approve. We have a commitment in some way, which comes naturally from the Convention: we commit ourselves to the rapid adoption of the Act on Femicide, which is not something that overlaps the Convention, but is its operational instrument. It is a law that must be based on and based on network work; this network is somewhat ahead of what experiences in the territories have matured for years. I present the experience of my territory, of the Province of Arezzo, where for more than fifteen years there has been a structured network and a permanent work promoted and coordinated by the Province, which involves all municipalities, ASL, prefecture, law enforcement and voluntary associations. And once again, look, national politics and the legislator are behind the experience of the territories. So let's not go any further; the commitment is to schedule and quickly approve the Femicide Act and be consistent with the funding they need to activate this network and ensure the necessary services. I conclude by saying that, while we must do this, we must not forget, however, that feminicide is a real war, and this war can only be won in the hearts and minds of people. I constantly wonder, every time I think about this drama, what happens in the head of a man, that man who rapes, who persecutes, who kills a woman, who is often his woman, his wife or ex-wife, his girlfriend or his ex-girlfriend, a woman with whom dreams and intimacy have been shared, with whom perhaps children have been born. A man who suddenly sees that woman and makes her almost a cardboard template to shoot against and fight against; what happens in that man's head? And then I wonder more and more how one should do it to carry on, together with the norms, also that important action of cultural promotion for which, just as it becomes natural to fall in love, it must become equally natural to end that love. The theme then arises of how politics and its institutional and cultural activity must bring back to the centre those words that are taboo, that are precisely sexuality and love, and give them back their dignity and space also in those places where today in some way it is forbidden to talk about them, such as in schools (if it is not forbidden, it is still difficult). It is necessary to promote a culture of affection and sexuality not based on possession, but based on freedom and mutual respect. And freedom is not only in one area, but it is in all areas, also - returning to the previous reasoning - where the activities of the parliamentary groups are lived and realized, as in Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Cristoforo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u62	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u63	Mr President, I really think - and I said this just now for other reasons - that tonight is an important moment, perhaps even one of the most important, at least in the recent history of this parliamentary term, which sees us engaged in the debate on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, or rather - I want to call it that - of the Convention for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. I, like others, believe that it is necessary to name the title of the Convention entirely, in order to give it the importance it deserves, for its highly symbolic meaning, but also for the addresses of intervention that it prepares and for the lines with which this fundamental instrument aims to combat and prevent the violence that incessantly is consumed on the body of women and that nevertheless do not always come to light, but more often remain confined in the darkness of the consciences of the victims, in the silence imposed or self-imposed on the women who suffer them. This is an important moment - I said this - also because our fifth country is the fifth country to proceed to ratification, thanks to the work of the Members and Senators of the previous legislature (which I thank of course), of the President of the Senate and of the President of the Chamber Boldrini, thanks to their commitment to ensure that the ratification of the Convention was among the first laws approved by Parliament during the XVII legislature. It is of course not irrelevant that Italy is the fifth of the 47 countries of the Council of Europe to ratify the Convention and it is not useless to remember - it has already been said - that, in order for the Convention to be operational, at least ten States of the Council of Europe must be ratified. This, Mr President, imposes on our country a political burden and a moral obligation: that of promoting other states of the European Union to ratify the Convention as soon as possible and in the widest possible number. This would be a fundamental step so that the issue of gender-based violence becomes not one of many issues, a postcard - even an important one - of the wider part of the rights of the person, but an integral, constitutive and qualifying part of the body of fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Union to its citizens. If this, as I believe, is the objective to be pursued, it must be borne in mind that gender violence must be dealt with as a political and social phenomenon together; and that, therefore, it is not only the issue of prevention and conflict, which is fundamental, but also the subject of the legislative actions of the individual European governments and of the Union itself, but that this issue cannot but be addressed at the root and in many respects, not least the cultural one. Without this leap of paradigm, the nature and quality of democracy in Europe would simply be weakened and revoked. The European Union is often more attentive to the raw numbers of budgetary balances than to rights and their full implementation, which are allowed to be sacrificed to the logic of consolidation. But it happens that it is not always possible for this to happen at zero cost to the budgets. It is in this sense that full implementation (and it is essential for the Government to provide absolute assurance as to the allocation of the resources necessary for this purpose) must be given to the Convention which, by the expression 'violence against women', intends to designate - as stated in Article 3 - a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against women, including all acts of violence based on gender which cause or are liable to cause harm or suffering of a physical, sexual, psychological or economic nature, including threats to perform such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of freedom, both in public life, and in private life, as has been recalled. As you can see, this is a formulation, which effectively identifies the theme of gender violence, but which also helps to decode the whole political nature of the issue, its concern for the sphere of freedom in all its aspects, from psychological to economic, its being a question precisely pertaining to the public and private sphere. We all have in mind the terrible story of Fabiana, the cruel death inflicted by a boy with only a few years more than her, who has incredibly arrogantly assumed the right to dispose of his life in such a horrible way. What idea of self, what idea of the other of itself, of the female gender can lead a boy to feel that he can deprive a woman of life as if it were his own and of no importance? Finally in recent years it has been realized that murders like those of Fabiana are not only personal tragedies, and the term "feminicide" has become common use. Here, in this noun there is the crux of the matter. That behind the violence of gender, up to the extreme form of feminicide, there is the dramatic question of the lack of recognition of the other by itself that is the female gender and that therefore the work to be done is as enormous as it is indivisible and that very much concerns the cultural sphere, the identity of the male gender and its weakness are points on which our reflection is decisive. (at 19.29 p.m.) (De Cristofaro followed). I say this as a male: there are still too few men who enter this difficult terrain. I would like to point out for all an important experience, that of the Plural Male Association of Rome. But precisely in this direction the actions recommended by the Convention on the ground of prevention are crucial. It is from there, from the first years of the training path that a civil education can be grafted that contrasts the many damages that the reification of the female body for commercial and advertising purposes or a stereotype of subalternity of the female gender, which - let's not forget - is still deeply rooted in the common sense of men, have produced. However, it must be remembered that it is often the material condition and also the concrete sociality of women that influence and determine paths, destinies and choices, that is, the possibility of avoiding violence and abuse is directly proportional to the independence and self-determination of women. What chance did the five women who died in Brindisi in October 2011, buried by the collapse of the basement where they worked for less than four euros per hour, ask me? What chance did the youngest of them have, who were only 14 years old? I would like to remind the House of its name: Maria Cinquepalmi. Certainly she did not die directly from male violence, but did not she die of necessity, social loneliness, of the impossibility of choosing what to do with her own life? In short, that at the root of violence there is a dramatic disparity, an intolerable asymmetry that concerns the social order, which also and above all concerns the threat that women's freedom and autonomy can lead, according to the male point of view, to a consolidated symbolic order that admits nothing else by itself, seems to me an indisputable fact. But the fact that gender-based violence also covers injustice, exploitation and exclusion of which women are shown because more exposed, more blackmailable, more alone, we should, also through the instrument of the Convention, take the opportunity to reflect. In this sense, we must look with dismay at the figures for women's employment, especially the southern ones. In the South, one in four young women works. The SVIMEZ, in its recent study, has described how, even because of the marked process of destruction of the productive fabric induced by the long economic crisis, the young southern women - who are now on average more educated than the peers of the rest of the country - have no choice but emigration or forced regression, due to lack of work, to a role of housewives that belonged to their grandmothers and had been overcome by their own mothers. That this is a gigantic civil regression for the country and an intolerable loss for Italian society seems to me too obvious to have to emphasize it in other words. In short, the fact that the theme of gender violence, of the lack of autonomy, of the subalternity of women must be addressed with a complex of instruments is an argument that the Convention puts on the subject by offering governments an operational grid and a direction of march; however, it is up to our political choices not only to carry out a symbolic operation, but to concretely build the conditions to remove the obstacles of economic and social order, which constitute the conditions within which gender violence matures against women. For this reason, too, a measure such as the unconditional minimum income would give women - including women - the possibility of avoiding the subalternity, blackmail and abuse to which I have referred. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, it is intolerable that in the last parliamentary term the law on the resignation in white gave the possibility of protecting the self-determination of women, their choice between free and conscious motherhood and the possibility of having a job and a social role together. So, I ask myself with you: does it make sense to ratify the Istanbul Convention and not re-introduce that law? In the same way, it is necessary to ensure that women can benefit from an indispensable garrison such as Law No 194 of 1978 and all those social protections that are first affected at every budgetary maneuver for many years to this side, and to such an extent that, especially in the South, welfare is actually zeroed, with deleterious effects especially on border guards such as anti-violence counters. Madam President, we believe that from here we must start: today with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, tomorrow continuing to pursue with determination the road that frees women from the mortgage of unequal freedom and our society from the scourge of gender violence. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u64	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the joint discussion of draft laws in title and related motions to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u67	IN MAY (SPI). Madam President, the subject of justice in our country is extremely sensitive. Today I put a question under Rule 151 of the Rules of Procedure, and the matter is of direct concern to the Presidency, because the President considers the urgency of the matter, in accordance with Rule 151 of our Rules of Procedure. All too often in our country a new fashion is manifested, a fashion according to which the processes are done, first on television, then in the classrooms of justice. Unfortunately, it's a growing fashion. I have never, by culture, loved the summary processes or the process of the square, and much less I am excited about the television ones, partly because in this new fashion they often catch the media with full hands, and in a similar climate it goes without saying that all the constitutional guarantees of the right process become independent variables. Of this perverse system I thought I'd seen everything, instead something new happened. Thursday, June 6, 2013 Michele Santoro presents a special episode of "Public Service More" dedicated to a very serious and important fact for our country: the negotiation State-Mafia. Not a trial of five, ten or twenty years ago, but an ongoing trial that has just begun. Who is participating in that broadcast, Madam President? I avoid reminding you of the names of anti-mafia professionals, those who are in SPE (for those who do not know the military acronym: in actual permanent service). A magistrate (in fact, there are two judges) participates in that broadcast, and he is not an off-course magistrate: it is by chance that the prosecutor exercises and holds the charge in the trial on the State-Mafia negotiation, Antonino Di Matteo. Him - just him! - talks about the trial on the State-Mafia negotiation and of facts concerning other trial, whose judgment is expected for next July, the one concerning General Mori, closely linked to the trial on the State-Mafia negotiation. If you only for a moment thought that this was all, you would be disappointed again, because another magistrate takes part in that process (I understand the television process: when fiction surpasses reality), that is, Dr. Piergiorgio Morosini. So, if we're in the fiction, we can imagine that the prosecutor, being part of the trial, might have an almost citizenship right, but if we talk about Dr. Piergiorgio Morosini, we talk about the third judge, what the state should guarantee, the rule of law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. IN MAY (SPI). I will finish now, Madam President. Through your function, I would like this question to have the urgency that these facts deserve.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u68	We have now seen the filing of the question. We will take charge of soliciting the government's response.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u71	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I come back for a moment to the subject we have discussed so much about this afternoon, because today, at this moment, I want to remind you of yet another woman killed by barbarism. Unfortunately, this time it happened to my province too (I say "also" because the problem is cross-cutting and we all know that it crosses every social layer and every geographical community). It happened a few days ago in a sacred place, in a place where one feels secure: at school, where we send our children, where the teachers and all the staff go to work serenely; where also this woman went to work at the end of a school year. This afternoon, while we were talking about this subject, his funerals were celebrated. I say this not only with passion, but with all of myself, and I would like these words to reach the Minister here and to the Government: we can ratify any treaty, but we need two fundamental things. A very prosaic thing, which is money because, as they say in my house, "without money you don't sing "mass." Unfortunately, it has been said and reiterated that there are very few reception centres, listening centres and women's protection homes. I assure you that there are even fewer in Sicily. Yesterday afternoon my friend Rosa called me, who founded and constituted the only listening center in that city, and asked me what to do, what to do and what to say to these people. I told her I'd put the matter in the Senate today at the end of the day. So I represent the problem, because what can volunteers do if they do not give part of their time? We can only use these generous figures who can sometimes have professionalism, but not always time, and I remember that we need stable and safe times and equally certain professionalism. I therefore put the problem to your attention. In these days of the creation of the measure "to do" let us also think about putting resources in this direction; it is money that serves women, but also the community because if women are better, it is the community that is better. Women who suffer violence, in fact, or get sick, and need drugs and interventions, or die and there are children who suffer and grow up with the drama of assisted violence. Prevention intervention is therefore absolutely necessary and can no longer be spotted by leopard, but it must be spread throughout the country. It is not possible that the country is once again divided for this pain in a Country of Serie A and in a Country of Serie B! We are all entitled to the same kind of assistance. But that is not enough. This was a first reflection. The second reflection is cultural. It has been said and reiterated that a decree is not enough, a rule is not enough and the centres are not enough. You have to change your head, grow and educate yourself: I have been saying this for many years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please finish your speech. PADUA (PD). I believe that a day of reflection should be institutionalised. Announcement on this occasion that I am presenting a bill aimed at predicting a day during the school year, perhaps in October (then it will decide who has to decide), in which we talk about this problem, we debate and confront each other from the youngest age until the children of the high school. It is only in this way, in fact, by changing heads and culture, that we can have hope... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Padua's comments. Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Cristofaro and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u72	Time's up. He had already had a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u75	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, distinguished colleagues, on 22 May, quoting Matthew Iori, president of the CONAGGA association, put to your attention the conflict of interest between politics and the gambling industry and the emergence of a clear political will to assign again the delegation to the undersecretary of the PdL Alberto Giorgetti. So I said and so it happened: not only did it have the delegation to gambling, but it also had a greater power over the issues of competence of the Customs and Monopoly Agency, from which the treasury annually adds tens of billions of euros. A coveted, valuable delegation, therefore. But what are his merits? To be appreciated by the industry? As Iori says, Giorgetti managed the delegation for the games during the last Berlusconi Government and was particularly appreciated by the gaming industries for its ability to help in the introduction of many new gambling games: videolottery, win for life, additional competitions of the superEnalotto, distance bingo, solitary online poker and many others. The volume of games had a surge, with an increase of 30 percent in a single year, from 2010 to 2011. I remember that on an epidemiological level the spread, availability and easy accessibility to the gaming points are factors that increase the pathological dependence. According to restrictive estimates, pathological players are at least 700,000 and live in families where everyone suffers, even children. From a study by the Department of Drug Policy, it turns out that almost 8% of 15 - year - old boys are likely to play in a problematic way. This shows how illusory the current controls are and what epidemic we must prepare to deal with. Of this business to the State arrives 8-10 billion a year, but gambling subtracts resources from the consumption of food and primary goods: the langue economy and businesses die. Even the treasury loses, with the lack of revenue of 3.8 billion VAT on consumption. A study by the University of Neuchâtel estimates in more than 6 billion the social and health damage caused by gambling. Why, then, pursue this absurd expansion? Foundations and non-profit associations have begged to reverse the course and that the delegation did not go to those who had pushed to the diffusion of these so-called games, instead Giorgetti was chosen by the Letta Government. Why, despite the authoritative protests? How do you intend to clear the field from the doubts of conflict of interest that have invested several members of the Government? These are questions that the Ministers will now have to answer: a question will be put shortly. [[Applause from the M5S and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u78	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, we want to report a very serious matter. We are witnessing a huge tragedy these days, a humanitarian emergency involving women and children. In the Mediterranean Sea, thousands of people put their lives at risk in the name of a hope that will hardly be attainable. The situation is extremely serious and our country cannot once again take on its own, unilaterally, the problem. We must ask for the European Union's intervention immediately. The European Union has blood on its hands, other than the Nobel Peace Prize! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is time for the European Union to stop turning its head around, it is time for the European Union to honour its commitments with our country. We ask you to speak with the Government to come and report to the House immediately on this situation. [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] As soon as possible, Madam President, we are allowed to give advice. An interior minister, whose name I do not mention in a recent past, has put in place an extraordinary plan that in fact blocked the landings. An extraordinary plan that many criticized because it is defined as unhumanitarian, first of all by those who sit in the highest chamber of the Lower House at this precise moment. [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] Madam President, the facts of these days show us that that extraordinary plan at least guaranteed what the European Union cannot guarantee today: Christian charity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u81	CASALETTO (M5S). Madam President, these days 6,000 square metres of GMO maize have been sown in Vivaro, Friuli. Two prosecutors, Padua and Pordenone, had already expressed a negative opinion about a farmer who had sown GMO maize a few years ago. The Court of Cassation in March 2012 also found the integration of a crime in the conduct of those who sow GMO maize. The GMO affair has been going on for too long and this must be an opportunity to finally close an issue on which citizens and farmers, economic and social representatives, regions and Parliament have already spoken many times. I would also remind you that the cultivation of GMOs is a dangerous activity, according to the environmental code, and provides for actions to prevent environmental damage. In the light of and in compliance with the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 6 September 2012 and 18 May 2013, the right to grow genetically modified organisms must coexist with the right of the State to condition cultivation to appropriate coexistence measures with traditional or organic farming, in order to avoid any possible contamination of such productions and consequent economic damage. The legitimacy of the placing of GMOs continues to be subject to the verification that the concrete conditions of such cultivation are suitable to avoid contamination with other productions. We ask the government, as the 5 Star Movement, to complete the procedure for the adoption of the safeguard clause, as has already been urged by all the parliamentary groups in the Senate with a motion voted unanimously and as has been done for a long time in several countries. In particular, we ask the Ministry of the Environment to issue an urgent order to protect the agroecosystem, pursuant to Article 8 of the law establishing the same Ministry. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Volpi and Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u82	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-43.ana.u83	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 19 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.52.
