ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Questions 3-00071 and 3-00153 will be answered first, on the inconveniences resulting from the closure of a section of the state road 36. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am answering questions 3-00071, tabled by Senators Del Barba and Cantini, and 3-00153, tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni, as they relate to the same subject. In the meantime, I would like to stress that we are talking about a strategic artery that connects Lecco to Valtellina, the state road 36 "Del Lago di Como" and Spluga" in the stretch between Lecco and Colico, built between the 1960s and the end of the 1980s. The track that develops for about 50 kilometers is important, it crosses an uninterrupted series of tunnels, even of considerable length, and therefore needs always imposing maintenance activities, ordinary and extraordinary. I must point out that, as with all the works within its competence, ANAS tells us that it carries out periodic checks in order to ascertain the actual safety for road users. The numerous maintenance interventions carried out by ANAS over the years on State Road 36 also affected, among other things, the mountain and valley reeds of the tunnel Monte Piazzo, which, crossing the mountain of the same name, located within a fault of regional character, have been the subject of important deforming effects since the original opening to traffic of the tunnel itself. And here we reserve to ascertain also the phases of shipbuilding of the work. In order to complete the operations in correspondence of the passage of the tunnel in the most critical area of the mountain, where a deep fracture makes the rock very weak, facilitating the circulation of the water that weighs on the bearing structures, ANAS has designed works to consolidate the rocky outline and to redo the dissected coating of the mountain reed (from km 84,485 to km 84,905) and the valley reed (from km 84,243 to km 84,474), of the tunnel Monte Piazzo, for an extension of about 425 meters, along the north reed, and for 231 meters along the south reed. As part of this project, ANAS has prepared a detailed study of the phases related to the alternating closure of the two pipes and has been evaluated the effects and possible inconveniences of the yard on the circulation of the state road 36. To this end, before the start of the work, several meetings were held with the prefectures and provincial administrations of Lecco and Sondrio, where the modalities of implementation of the operational phases were agreed and shared. In particular, for the duration of the work, it has been established to keep the circulation along the highway 36 in the direction of Lecco, towards the south, on two lanes, starting from 15-16 hours and until 24 hours on every Sunday, and to divert, instead, the traffic in direction Colico, towards the north, on the provincial road 72. The works were delivered and started in June 2012, with the realization of the by-pass of Corenno and the centering of a stretch of the mountain barrel from km 84,285 to km 84,485. Such intervention, not provided for in the original contract for the works, has become indispensable due to the manifestation of important injuries to the main structures of the tunnel. The works continued from September 2012 with interventions in the valley barrel, through the reconstruction of the main structures of the tunnel, for about 231 meters (in particular the reinforced concrete coating of a meter thickness over the entire contour), necessary to replace the deteriorated traits dating back to the time of the construction of the tunnel. With regard to the deformative situation described above and to the potential vibrations induced by the adjacent excavation processes, the mountain barrel, in double-way operation, has been subject to in-depth monitoring since September 2012. In particular, the structures have been subjected to visual inspections, measurements with cracks, with flat jacks and with convergence stations. The monitoring activity by ANAS has in fact allowed to fully evaluate the variations of the tensional and deformative states connected to the intense rainy precipitations that, as is known, have fallen on Lombardy since last February and that, consequently, have increased the effects of hydraulic thrusts on the structures of the Monte Piazzo tunnel. The readings carried out on 27 April 2013, while indicating a progression of the stresses in the concrete of the coating, did not show the emergence of critical situations. On 9 May, on the other hand, the technical checks revealed some structural anomalies, amplified the following day by the increase in the pressures on the coating of the tunnel. Therefore, on May 10 (then the next day) ANAS had to close down the traffic along the barrel in the north direction of the tunnel. Having said that, the event described above must certainly be seen in the context of unpredictability. The examination of the surveys and the monitoring carried out and described a short while ago led ANAS to take a decision of this magnitude that, although penalising for the territory of Lecco and Sondrio, has certainly avoided much more serious damage and consequences to the tunnel and, above all, to the users of the road. The alternative road plan, which in the event of the closure of the highway 36 provides for the use of the provincial road 72, was immediately activated with the help of law enforcement and local authorities; the operational management continued with the intensification of ANAS's activity which ensured the garrison of the most critical points of the road through the creation of eight fixed stations along the provincial road 72. Currently, the activity for the restoration of the road road 36 proceeds, without rest, according to an accelerated schedule and agreed between ANAS and the undertaking performing the works. The processes described, carried out with rounds of 24 hours a day and seven days a week, have allowed the reopening of the southern cane of the tunnel last 13 June, then in advance of the previous forecast of 30 June; some night closures of the highway 36 (between 22 and 6 hours) will be necessary to allow the completion of the technological plants and some finishing works, according to a calendar that will also be defined with the local administrations. The works will continue exclusively in the mountain cane of the tunnel in the same way used for that of the valley. The works, as ANAS reports, despite the difficulties that have occurred, will be completed in June 2014, thanks to the increase of the operating means and the workers, as well as through the reinforcement of the working shifts in order to accelerate the conclusion of the works. I also inform you that the competent offices of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport are carrying out as soon as possible, through the interregional provision to the public works of Lombardy, together with ANAS and the local authorities concerned, an accurate verification of the situation and monitoring both from a technical point of view of safety and from a point of view of sustainability in the connections, in order to improve the current critical situation in the road connections of the area. In concluding, I assure you that the Government and the Ministry will follow with due attention, i.e. maximum, the regular continuation of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u7	DEL BARBA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am pleased with the Secretary's reply, particularly with regard to monitoring and monitoring for the immediate restoration of normal conditions for the road which leads primarily to the Province of Sondrio. As the Undersecretary rightly said, this is a strategic artery linking Lecco to Valtellina; perhaps it is worth pointing out that it is basically the only artery connecting an entire Province to the rest of Italy, except for the Alpine passes. In my opinion, this increases the attention on our part and on the part of the Government for the future, because, despite the prompt interventions of restoration, we cannot forget that still this Province is connected only with one of the two rods for an important stretch, just when we are about to inaugurate the road to four lanes in the Province of Sondrio and clearly, if the access is reduced to two lanes, this important work for our Province is fundamentally diminished. Another reason for satisfaction is the vigilance that the Government intends to assume regarding the shipbuilding of the works; in fact, it is not the first time that accidents of this type happen on that stretch. These important deforming effects are a dangerous sword of Damocles on the entire economy of our Province, so it is necessary to understand not only whether there have been responsibilities in the execution phase, but whether there remain serious unknowns about the future of the viability of a Province with a tourist vocation. It is therefore necessary to understand how to mitigate risks by providing for appropriate alternative road plans. Therefore, while pointing out that the action of the Government should not be understood as being over here, but that the important phase of feedback, control and monitoring must continue with greater insistence, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u10	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, unfortunately, unlike Mr Del Barba, I cannot be fully satisfied, for one simple reason: in the state of the art the main artery of the Province of Sondrio is half-service. This is the point from which we must start. You, Mr Undersecretary, quite rightly - and thank you - have made an official defence of ANAS, which is understandable. I agree with what you said about the need to establish shipbuilding, but we must also check the planning of ANAS, which we believe has always been rather clumsy with regard to this important artery. However, I would like to stress the fact that we have a half-service road today. And for the future, Mr. Undersecretary, we have another certainty: the road will be half-service for the next two years. That's for sure. I want to tell you, even as a technician. Perhaps it was the case to emphasize that Minister Lupi, who went two Sundays ago with Councillor Del Tenno to visit the yards, shared the need to intervene immediately at ANAS, given the precariousness of the infrastructure, so that the extraordinary road that must be put in the field in the case of new problems for the Province of Sondrio (let's cross the fingers) does not create the environmental and economic disaster that has caused so far for the Province itself, that is the use of the road SP72 that does not have the necessary calibre, being built, perhaps by the Austrians, "some" year ago, to pass the 1,000 trucks that every day come down from Valtellina to Milan for the transport of goods and cars that circulate normally. Minister Lupi has shared the fact that it is necessary to foresee resources, which are around 15 million euros, in order to realize, in the case of a new emergency, an alternative road, already shared by the Provinces of Sondrio and Lecco in a preliminary project. I do not want to go into the details, but in case of emergency this would guarantee the Province of Sondrio not to remain isolated from the rest of the country, because in fact this happened: the Province of Sondrio has been isolated from the rest of the country, with devastating repercussions from the economic point of view. Too often we forget that the Province of Sondrio also lives in a particular way of tourism. You can imagine what triggered all this. Tourist packages have failed, because the Province of Sondrio is not reachable. And, having not been closed important tourist packages for the Province, we are sure to have a devastating summer. So, Mr Undersecretary, apart from the fact that we have now overcome the most acute emergency, what we are asking for and on which we will be watching is that, as promised by Minister Lupi and Regional Councillor Del Tenno, there is a union of forces to share what the territory wants, all the coastal municipalities, including the two Provinces: the solution of the peduncle of Piona, in detail, and the exit of Dervio. This will give us a guarantee that we will not be separated from the rest of the country. Then don't come and say it's us who want to separate the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u11	Following is the question 3-00060 on the personal protective device to former Member Angela Napoli. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u12	Madam President, Senator Lo Moro's question draws the attention of the Government to the reduction of the escort to Mr Angela Napoli, who has always been involved in the fight against the mafia and in the affirmation of the culture of legality, calling for the adoption of any useful initiative aimed at restoring the original safety and protection devices. First of all, it should be pointed out that protection measures are taken following an in-depth assessment of the personal risk situation at both local and central level, so that final determinations can then be taken by the Central Office for Personal Security Interforces. In particular, for persons who have held public positions in the past, the assessment of the actual level of risk is aimed at verifying the quality or not of the exposure to danger. In any case, a periodic and systematic verification of the degree of personal exposure to risk is carried out, which is a further guarantee of the actual need for escort services. The subject, moreover, has been object of various correctives, introduced last from the decrees of the Minister of the inside of 23 November 2011 and 3 December 2012, in the prospect of a rationalization of the use of the supplyes and the containment of the costs. Turning now to the specific case of Mr Napoli, who was raised with the act of inspection union, it is clear that since February 1999 protective measures have been adopted against the former Member of Parliament, consisting of a general surveillance connected to the home and the political secretariat, as the former Member of Parliament itself was threatened with death due to its activity of denouncing and combating the criminal organizations of Calabria. Since 1992, more incisive protective measures have been put in place in the light of the institutional tasks carried out and of certain intimidation incidents, and a so-called third level escort service has been set up. On 6 May, in the course of the periodic review of the protection arrangements and in view of the cessation of parliamentary duties, the measure was remodulated to the fourth level. However, on the basis of the concerns about the personal safety of the person concerned, the situation has been reviewed by the Central Security Interforce Office, which has arranged for the restoration, as requested by Senator Lo Moro with his question, of third level protection, integrated, limited to the territory of Reggio Calabria, by a generic radio-connected surveillance service.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u15	LO MORO (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his reply and, above all, for the restoration of the measure. We intervened quickly, because it seemed necessary to us, when there was a change of government and this could not be adequately highlighted, to point out a case that for those living in Calabria was of real danger. It is not enough to stop a business to put an end to a danger. When the parliamentarians are serious, when they are political, even if they are not parliamentary, when they are militants of anti-mafia, as they have been for a long time and continue to be Angela Napoli, they must be more cautious. Of course, I am not referring to you and your government, Deputy Minister Bubbico, because you are not the target of any recrimination. But this case makes us think. It makes us think about the delicate moments of passage. It makes us think about the structures. It makes us think about the vision that the structures of politics in general have. Since, among other things, we agree on the substance and that the case has been resolved, my consideration is: how is it possible that at the end of January, following threats of death by those in the judicial and journalistic chronicles who are identified as 'ndranghetista, one of the most dangerous people in Calabria (at this time I believe he is held), has been so rigorously assessed the maintenance of a measure and then, after three months, has been decided to remodulate it? You can't think that the 'ndrangheta forgets with such ease! I felt it was right to make this point. I thank you for the timeliness, but what has happened must serve to guide us for the future, because situations need to be reviewed cyclically. I say this immediately and I say it clearly: they are not for the stocks used as status symbol, in fact I am really opposed to this way of manifesting and representing their role. But when stocks are justified by real dangers, they must be allocated and maintained. Above all, one cannot leave one person alone at any moment, because he has changed his role, in a situation of discouragement, as I guarantee it was for Angela Napoli, but in Calabria he has found so much solidarity at the local level in many political forces present also in this House and who are listening, many warnings and much listening also from the Government. We solved the case without danger, but these things shouldn't happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u16	Following is the question 3-00062 on the recruitment of contest winners in the State Police. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rules governing the recruitment of staff in the role of state police officers and assistants are governed by the code of military law, which provides for compliance with procedures and operating procedures to which the administration of public security is required to comply. The current legislation stipulates that, until 31 December 2020, as with the other civilian and military police forces, the posts put in competition for the recruitment of personnel in the initial career of the State Police are determined on the basis of a five-year rolling programming. These programmes, drawn up annually by each of the administrations concerned, shall be communicated by 30 September each year to the Ministry of Defence. The seats are reserved for volunteers in a fixed stop of one year or four years. Only 55 percent of the competitors judged fit after at least one year of service with the Armed Forces and usefully placed in the rankings are placed directly in the initial careers of the Police Forces. On the other hand, the remaining 45 percent can only be put into office after serving in the Armed Forces as a permanent four-year volunteer. The administration of Public Security, therefore, is obliged to respect the competition procedure provided for by the legislation of the sector that allows the entry into the initial role of the State Police only after the four years of arrest. On the other hand, it must also be taken into account that the same regulation requires that competitive activity be carried out periodically, banning new selective procedures also in order to meet the needs of personnel of military structures. I also recall that the Stability Act for 2013, with regard to the recruitment of police forces and turnover discipline, provided for an appropriation of 70 million euros for 2013 and 120 million euros from 2014, funds that will allow the administrations concerned to have a easier margin of maneuver in the recruitment faculties, also with regard to the volunteers in the fixed stop.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u20	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, before I reply, I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Lo Moro, who wanted to present the question on the case of Angela Napoli, a document which I personally share and support. Mr Vice-Minister, I would like to thank you for your willingness to respond to this question, which refers to an issue which has been dealt with too superficially for too long, but I say to you immediately that I cannot be satisfied. While thanking you for your response to this House, I cannot fail to stress my regret at the position that the Ministry continues to take, unfortunately continuing to hide behind imaginative cash requirements, almost knowingly unaware that only the solution we have been proposing for a year is geared to real savings. It is as if the administrative machine, arrived at a certain point, jammed and was no longer able to make different choices. The media have also recently highlighted the issue of second rates, giving voice and bringing to the public's attention a drama that does not generally concern the waste of public administration, but specifically the life, dreams and expectations of 1,700 children. For a year now I have been trying to raise your Ministry's attention to this issue. There have been moments of encounter, acts of inspection union, amending proposals, which have, however, limited themselves to political commitments and have only been translated into a loosening of turnover meshes in the security and defence sector. This premise is certainly necessary for the reinstatement of the contest winners placed at second rate, but it seems appropriate to point out that on this subject we must not wait to convince this or that in order to achieve some results: we should only be rational all together and understand that, behind certain laws, we often hide absurd demands. With this I do not want to charge you or the current Minister, being in office for a few months, that bad system that has been settling down in these seven years, that does not consider that many young people are facing a path to obstacles, often giving up the plan to put themselves at the service of their country. I do not deny you, Mr Deputy Minister, that I was particularly confused about the introduction of a new competition last March for the recruitment of 964 student agents. What does a new contest have to do with 1,700 other guys waiting for years? Apart from the considerable waste of resources, this intervention frustrates the prospect of admission into the initial career of the young contest winners, as well as contradicting the provisions of the regulations and requirements of the competitions in which the young people took part. I remember that the audience of the second rates will soon touch the 2,000 units; practically an army of men who, winners of competition in the Police at 20-22 years old, may find themselves hoping to enter at 30 years, with obvious consequences in terms of the operation and efficiency of our police. Mr. Deputy Minister, the point on which to concentrate is only one: to meet the needs of staff all administrations should use the rankings still in force of the public competitions already held and absolutely not launch new competitions. We must put an end to the usual Italy system, where, instead of finding the simplest and most feasible solutions, it complicates everything because you do not have a strategic vision. This is the real spending review, through which, on the one hand, expenses are reduced and, on the other, a heavy regulatory vulnus is filled. It must be imperative to allow the entry of the winners of the first competitions of the State Police, implementing all the administrative procedures necessary before the service in the Armed Forces is completed, in order to prevent these young people from remaining without work, waiting to transit the Police. Moreover, it is necessary - and I am sure the Ministry will take charge of it - to initiate the modification of the current rule in order to remove the discipline, putting in stand by the contests and proceeding to the integration of all the remaining second rates. At such a delicate time for the Italian security system, where crime is growing which creates a sense of insecurity among citizens, the maintenance of this status quo is likely to be particularly damaging. I shall conclude, Madam President. We need to restore dignity to those who make the protection of the State a mission, and only by changing the law will it be possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u21	Following is the question 3-00108 on the revocation of the command of an executive at the State Archives of Fermo. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u22	Madam President, I am referring to the question put by Senator Verducci and other senators about the situation that has arisen in the State Archives of Fermo, which is linked to Mrs Annunziata Vagnoni, an employee of the Ministry of Education, University and Research and which belongs to the first functional area, pay area F2, with the qualification of an indeterminate school worker at the Institute inclusive of G. Leopards of Grottammare, Province of Ascoli. The lady serves as a command at the State Archives of Fermo and, although framed in this area before, has cultural requirements and operational capacity to ensure the regular performance of the services to the public and the support to the director in his technical-scientific activity. Last year, unfortunately, on the occasion of the decision to revoke the command advanced by its administration of origin (the MIUR), this Ministry had intervened at the competent regional school office to obtain the suspension of the revocation of the command and to avoid the consequent recall of the collaborator in the administration of belonging. This Ministry, however, had to proceed with the revocation of the employee's command in this matter, as in thirteen other similar cases, on 8 March 2013, with a measure of the Directorate-General for Organisation, General Affairs, Innovation, Budget and Personnel, because in the meantime a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers had been issued, on 22 January 2013, approving the new organic endowment of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities. Following this reduction, the organic plant of this Ministry, as you correctly referred to in your question, Senator Verducci, now provides only 700 places in the first area. At the time of the issuing of the aforementioned decree of the President of the Council of Ministers were present in the first area 973 employees of role and 14 commanded from other administrations, of which Mrs Annunziata Vagnoni is also part. But the presence of employees in command positions in public administrations presupposes the availability of posts in staff, which, in this case, was no longer in existence in the first area, following the adoption of the aforementioned decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. The director of the State Archives of Fermo has not failed to report the negative consequences of this revocation on the regular performance of the institute and on the public image of the Ministry. Similar concerns were expressed by the Director-General of the Marche, the Provincial Administration of Fermo, the University of Macerata and the Directorate-General for Archives. Unfortunately, we could only reiterate, at the current state of the legislation, the work of the administration, also in view of the numerous calls made by the Central Budget Office at the Ministry regarding the need to check on time the capacity of staff in the areas before keeping in service the staff commanded. It will however take care of our administration - but it is above all our interest - to evaluate every possible and allowed action to maintain the full functionality of the State Archives of Fermo.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u25	Mr Verducci (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government and the Members present in this House. I would like to thank the representative of the Government first of all for the speed of reply and for her completeness. Of course, the terms that have been reiterated here cannot lead me to express satisfaction as - rather - to increase regret for a rule that risks compromising the functionality of our archives. Madam Undersecretary, I would like to refer to the conclusion of your speech in order to invite the Government really and urgently to turn the spotlight on this reality (not just on the specific one mentioned by the question) and to ensure that the functionality of our archives is not compromised. It is clear that this question arises from a specific and urgent case, which you recalled, but in depositing it I wanted to highlight also the features of its emblematicity: the specific case of Fermo is actually the case of the entire system of archives and - I might add - libraries in our country, whose functionality and potential are literally inhibited by cuts that have been continuous and very heavy in recent years and by a chronic shortage of personnel, exacerbated very severely by the so-called spending review measures. In this regard, I would like to say that, as you know perfectly well, there is a very deep relationship between the preservation and promotion of memory and the preservation and promotion of our territory, at all levels. This is due to the characteristics of our polycentric system and the culture of our autonomy. Therefore, when we put at risk the functionality of an archive and its relationship with the local study community, starting with students, we not only put at risk the relationship of services with the institutions, schools and universities that you referred to, but we undermine the active function of dialogue of our archives with the widespread community of the territory, local and wherever it is, also by virtue of being able to make use, as they are doing, of the new technologies; in fact, they are the very advanced point of innovation of the new digital technologies and also of the network (I think about the digitization of documents). Protecting, enhancing and investing in the activity of archives is a precise duty of the State. For this reason we cannot tolerate the bad condition of archival construction: very often there are entire archives reduced to basements or located in unsuitable places. We cannot even tolerate the fact that archive personnel have to fight with chronic undersizing. Yet they are very high-level professional figures, who need years to train and whose competence is not exhausted in the school-university path alone. It would be urgent, for example, to launch a competition for young archivists: it has not been organized for decades. Likewise, too precarious forms of contract are no longer admissible. We must also relaunch the role of Italy in international committees, in which the quality and competence of our archivists is unanimously recognised. Madam Representative of the Government, we should intervene on a regulatory level and include in the code of cultural goods a specific chapter dedicated to archives and libraries and ensure that they belong to the cultural heritage of our country. We question ourselves very often in these times of crisis on what is the role of our country in the world: I think that it has to do with the strength of our identity, with its recognizability that distinguishes the cultural force, before commercial, of our made in Italy. All of this, at the bottom, deals with this urgent question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u26	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u29	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, the story of the dismissal of journalist Angelo Di Natale, editor of the headquarters of Catania of the regional RAI journalist, calls for some reflections on the quality and mode of transmission of the public television service. For years Dr Angelo Di Natale has denounced a series of episodes and behaviors that cast a disturbing shadow on the management of public information, at least within the RAI editorial staff of Catania. In the light of these repeated and detailed complaints, the company's response was prompt in the investigation, but very reactive and sanctioning against the complainant that, after having served several suspensions from the service, a widely disproportionate sanction is being applied today. To dismiss in log an employee who denounces serious behavior in the management of a very delicate service which is the public information appears an act objectively threatening and warning against the other employees. Without prejudice to the appropriate checks by the competent bodies, the serious facts reported by Dr. Di Natale deserve in-depth and comprehensive investigations to protect RAI's image. The 5 Star Movement, in affirming solidarity and closeness to journalists who believe in the right and duty to inform with responsibility and freedom, will continue to combat any distorting form of the general information service. We are convinced that information must be critical and free from any kind of conditioning and that is why we will defend the principles of truth, responsibility, ethics and professional journalistic ethics as well as the duties of the public information service, in the interests of the whole community, citizens and taxpayers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u30	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-47.ana.u31	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 24 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.48 p.m.
