ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 15.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 974, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the general discussion took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a brief reply, simply to stress that the debate that took place this morning was very rich, articulate and above all full of ideas, which essentially confirmed what had already emerged from my report and from that of Senator Bernini, namely that we are faced with a complex measure for the many issues dealt with. At the same time, however, the interventions themselves have emerged and the importance of many of these areas has been confirmed. In the subsequent interventions, the individual measures which form the content of this measure were taken into account. From this point of view it can be said that the decree-law that we are discussing, and that we should convert into law, contains a wide range of interventions. I believe, however, that it has emerged, and has been confirmed, the possibility of identifying an economic policy of a more general nature by the multiplicity of measures contained in this decree, as I and many speakers have already pointed out this morning. We are faced with a series of measures - or, at least, some of them - which can be used as instruments for boosting demand (especially internal) and, through demand, for boosting growth. They are in all respects comparable to policies supporting the economic cycle. I would like to stress this because in many ways this represents a change of direction in relation to an economic policy which has actually been obliged from this point of view, in an adjustment work, to follow somewhat different directions. I believe that this measure is also proof that measures can be taken which not only do not contradict a line of rigour from the point of view of public finances, but are fully compatible with it. A number of measures can be taken in the direction of aid and support for recovery. And these measures do not necessarily have to follow conventional paths: indeed. I mentioned a few of them this morning, and I take the opportunity to complete this list. Let us simply think of the best use of European structural funds, which can act in this direction of support for recovery. The use of spaces that were not exploited in terms of infrastructure can also help to revive recovery. Simplifying and deburring is also not only possible, but useful for the more general purposes of greater economic efficiency; as well as the actions that have shown how resources can be mobilised to help small and very small enterprises: let us think about the measures for credit and also think about the measures of the Digital Agenda. We must not underestimate the scope of a number of measures that can also put small units in the possibility not only of accessing (because that is a precondition), but in the possibility of knowing and being able to use a certain infrastructure. From this point of view, the news coming from outside is comforting and disheartening at the same time. They are uncomfortable about the past: the Italian economy was and remains in a recession. This recession is slowing down, but nothing is obvious. The comforting news is that there is a recovery at European level that is consolidating. It is clear, then, that the challenge facing us is how to turn a slowdown in the recessive phase into an opportunity for recovery and expansion. It is a passage that is not obvious, and that is not within our reach simply because it is just a matter of waiting for the right times to ripen: the opposite is true. It is essential from this point of view that this measure, together with the others who - let us not forget - are to our approval, can find its rapid approval and application. Let us remember these measures: above all the measure at work and the measure that is emerging regarding the possibility of a series of interventions in the territorial and environmental fields. Of course, everything must be seen in the perspective of the Stability Act, which will set out the accounting framework for 2013, especially where the tax delegation that serves, and will serve, to put order in a tax system will then be used. All this serves to say that we are in a phase that can become a change, a discontinuity. But that is not necessarily true. Some of these measures should be read as instruments to be used together with those that we will be called upon to discuss and approve in the coming days, and even more so in the autumn. I therefore believe that, in conclusion, this is a road that can be considered important and on which we can continue to work. The Italians ask politics above all to face the real problems, which today are called work and economic recovery. The approval of this decree will not solve these problems. However, it is an important element in the possibility of starting to respond to the major challenges of the coming months and next year. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u6	I call the rapporteur, Senator Bernini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the analysis of the co-rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. It is precisely this line that has characterized the work of the Commissions and that I am sure will also characterize the work of this House. A work that will enhance (we hope so, but we are certain that the sense of responsibility, which we have seen on several occasions during this brief but fruitful period of work on the text, will lead in this direction) the positive contents and the lights that certainly exist in this measure. There is a thread of conjunction, an element of continuity between all the arrangements contained in this measure, as my colleagues who have spoken in general debate have said. This is certainly a multidisciplinary measure. It is certainly a measure that has no claim to uniqueness. It is certainly - as Senator Guerrieri Paleotti recalled now - a measure that does not intend to regulate only the congery of matters he deals with. It is a measure that is part of a path of valorization of the tools of liberation of development, of growth, of favor, in particular for some flywheels of industrialization and, above all, for the deburocratization of sectors that suffer from traditional rules that no longer correspond to the real needs. This is what has represented for us a route manager in the management of a measure that wants to characterize, we repeat, the path of doing. If I may say so, some of my colleagues have ironized in part about the phrase 'decree of doing'. It has been said that it is a decree of not doing enough; a decree of doing not fully realized; a decree of doing that could have been perfected, but whose contents have not been sufficiently highlighted. In fact, it is a decree that wants to have the objective of doing things concretely in some areas that we have been talking about for some time and that they cannot provide for themselves a response to a structural problem. This measure contains, together, short-term solutions and advances in structural solutions. Mr Guerrieri Paleotti recalled some of the strong points of this decree. There are also critical elements. There are also shadows, but they will certainly be illuminated by the measures that will follow. The aspects we are convinced of and proud of are the liberalisation of some of the sectors of the economy that have for too long been entangled by unnecessary regulation chains. I repeat, unnecessary regulations. What is not effective, what is not efficient for citizens, businesses and the world of the labour market is simply useless. And what is useless is, in the long run, and now, in a critical moment, even in the short, counterproductive. As a flywheel of growth it has been used - not only in this measure, but in a path of continuity that has characterized some of the measures also of the previous governments - the infrastructural instrument, also this, in part, remembered from the co-rapporteur. Through a path of simplification, which certainly - we repeat - cannot be born and end here, but which has already begun and must, much more, continue from now on, we have tried to free some sectors that must, in order to be able to manifest themselves conspicuously, be liberated. We have mentioned only the use of building tools and the procurement sector of works, supplies and services, with interventions that have been improved and improved in the Commissions, but that of course cannot be exhausted in the necessarily limited and perimeter nature of this measure. We have also emphasized the importance of finding an additional red thread, an element of connection, in the valorization of merit, which - as they have highlighted some of the interventions that have been celebrated in the Chamber today - passes through the university training and the valorization of our human resources, of students through the valorization, of the ability and merit, with support to the same, and through the valorization of coherent indicators of performance of our universities, which now as a reference market not only have the Province, the Region, our own country, but the whole world and which, as such, must be marked by the main indicators of their quality: research, training, teaching, the valorization of young people. This is also a common feature of today's speeches: this is a measure that looks at young people. It looks at young people in the business sector, encouraging the financing of new companies, therefore of start-ups particularly relevant in terms of technology, promoting university spin-offs, promoting the ability to undertake, promoting the flow of credit. All this - we repeat it - within the framework of a measure which does not claim to be sufficient for itself, but which is part of an archipelago of development and growth, which must necessarily be followed by other measures and which, of course, is preceded by other measures, which are still passing through the two branches of our Parliament. Again, as the co-rapporteur said at the close, we must look at the signals coming from outside. What we do in these parliamentary classrooms and what Members have done before us have prepared a chain of measures, to which we are in part linked, which we are in part amending and which we want to improve in part, taking into account what changes around us, unfortunately even worse, with the worsening of the crisis, cannot fail to consider the signals coming from our country and beyond. These are signals that require above all an ingredient, which this measure contains and must contain, as must contain all the measures that come out of this beehive: efficiency. We can no longer afford not to be efficient. This applies to all the sectors covered by this measure: small and medium-sized enterprises, sector simplifications and the activation of a simplification process in that intricate world of the rules of justice, which often make justice too late to not be denied. Efficiency is our polar star, what made us all work together. I join with the thanks given to the parliamentary groups which have worked in the Commissions and which have contributed, as I am sure they will also do in this House. And I thank the Government, which wanted to work with us to try to implement promptly measures that cannot, must not and no longer want to be confined only on paper, but must be carried out and must be immediately efficient in our country. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u8	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Bisinella.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u9	I give up the reply, Mr President. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u12	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I have seen that the deadline for tabling amendments to the prison decree has been set for today at 7 p.m., which returns from the House. I would like to point out the following. The text entered my availability roughly three quarters of an hour ago. There is a sitting in this House which will continue to go on all the way, but I have called for one night for this evening. At 7 p.m. it is virtually impossible, in the House, to study the text and, if necessary, to make amending proposals, unless the presidency of the Senate intends, with this compression of time, to ensure that the Senate is limited to a mere stamp of what has been done by the House. I would ask you, Mr President, to move the deadline for tabling amendments to this House at 9 a.m. tomorrow, as a minimum of reflection on texts as sensitive as those which belong to the world of criminal law, criminal procedure and whatever else it may take. At least we can all have the opportunity to read the amendments and possibly propose amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u13	President Palma, the timetable and deadlines have been decided unanimously by the Conference of Leaders, which met just now. However, I will represent your comments to the presidency of the Senate, bearing in mind that the time and arrangements have been set.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u14	I would just like to add one thing, Mr President. Let us bear in mind, so that everyone can be clear, that, because of the limited timing and the concomitant nature of the House's work, the responsibility for mistakes cannot lie with the Commission for justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u15	You've already made your arguments clear, Senator Palma. I replied that the Conference of Leaders decided unanimously on the programme of work and the time limits set. You have made observations, which we will represent to the President of the Senate, which I imagine you have taken them into account, for any assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u16	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u17	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank, on behalf of the Government, the members of the Commissions meeting 1a and 5a, but also the members of the other Commissions, who provided the opinions, the two rapporteurs, Senator Bernini and Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, and the two Presidents of the Commissions, Senator Finocchiaro and Senator Azzollini, because together they did an important and profitable job, which led to the improvement of the text, both with respect to the original version presented at the time by the Government, and with respect to the version released from the Chamber. I believe that, even in the short run, the work has been thorough and has allowed us to address some key issues of the measure and to reason on them together with the members of the Commissions. I also believe that the improvements made by the Senate Commissions are improving the text and that this is not only part of a relationship between the Government and Parliament, where Parliament improves the measures of the Government, but also of a relationship between the two constructive and evolutionary Chambers, in which the Senate improved the text compared to that received by the House, as it is good that it happens in a bicameral system. The debate was very broad and challenging this morning. The rapporteurs have already clarified the individual rules of the decree and the changes made by the Commission's work here in the Senate. Several of the speakers stressed the main points of the measure, who in a positive key who in a critical key. So, I'm not going to go over the measure now. However, I would like to point out one point that I think is important, in response to a criticism that has come from several speakers in the debate. The criticism is that of a measure too wide in the type of themes that are dealt with within the decree-law. Of course, this is an understandable and, in part, even justifiable criticism. However, I would like to point out that, even in the articulation of the many issues touched on, the measure, both in the original version presented by the Government and in the version that arrives here today, is structured on three main chapters that are all three essential to give a recovery, a reversal of the tendency to the Italian economy compared to the crisis of recent years. The first chapter is the very broad one of the measures contained in Title I for economic growth: they are measures for both economic recovery and infrastructure. The following is Title II, concerning simplifications, which are a very important ground from the point of view of the chances of growth of the Italian economy. In fact, a fluid relationship between public administrations, citizens and businesses is an essential prerequisite for enabling the economy to function best and for all those who work - economic actors - to express their capacity on the markets. Finally, Title III concerns civil justice, which is a key chapter. We also know that it is one of the fundamental land where, with regard to international, our country needs to recover in terms of speed of application of the norms and of legal certainty that derives from the very speed of application of the norms. This - again - has a fundamental impact on the economic system: we are talking about the contractual relations system. Let us start from this last point, on which I will dwell only very quickly, to underline this that I have just said: regulation, rules, enforcement (as we say), the application of the rules of contractual relations are fundamental for the economic system to be able to move to an adequate degree and to develop. I would point out that, within this chapter, among the many important rules for speeding up the times of civil justice, there is that rule on the preventive agreement which perfects one, launched in the last year of the last legislature, which has marked a step forward in the possibility of helping companies in crisis to escape from the risk of closure and to reopen prospects for recovery. With the rule introduced in this decree-law the one launched in the last year of the last legislature is perfected, putting in place the mechanism. With regard to simplifications, the field is very wide: from tax simplifications to labour simplifications, for example with the single document of contributory regularity (DURC), or the electronic health file (which is, in fact, in another title, but which is strongly linked, because the whole health side is linked to the simplifications that the digital agenda can help to introduce), up to the provision of compensation for the delay in the administrative procedure, which is a norm of civilization in relations between public administrations, citizens and businesses. In short, this simplification belongs fully to a measure that wants to improve the functioning of the Italian economy and support the recovery of our economy. As I said before, it is a chapter that is part of the issue of the fluidization of relations between public administrations, businesses and citizens. This simplification, together with civil justice, is a kind of infrastructure of the rules. Then there is the physical infrastructure of the country, to which are dedicated fundamental articles of the measure, to prepare the physical infrastructures and improve this possibility: ranging from articles on the digital agenda to fundamental articles that accelerate the procedures for the realization of public works. I am thinking, for example, of the so-called unblocking article, which allows the concentration of resources on yards that can be activated immediately, or of the article which provides for an extension of the possibilities of using the tax credit for infrastructure projects. I still think, subject also present in another title of the bill but related, to the article in the matter of environmental infrastructure of the territory: the relationship between industrial activities, subsidies and environmental protection (as referred to in Article 41 of this decree-law). We are talking about the physical infrastructure of the economy, where we have measures that, as Senator Guerrieri Paleotti said before, have an impact on demand - the so-called unblocking yards - and, at the same time, activate conditions of greater structural competitiveness of the Italian economy in the medium and long term, helping to reassemble that infrastructural gap that marks our country compared to our main European partners and the advanced world. Going backwards along the decree-law, I would like to stress, finally, the measures that have leverage effects on the economy. I am referring to the facilitated financing of investments in machinery and equipment and, as the rapporteurs have rightly pointed out, also in less immediately material capital goods, such as software and other types of capital goods. There is talk of leverage because, with limited recourse to public resources, they set in motion a large amount of private investment resources. This too, as has been said, is an intervention that activates aggregate demand - therefore, helps economic recovery - on capital goods of companies and, therefore, on plants that strengthen the long-term growth capacity of the Italian economy. In the same direction go the rules on the Central Guarantee Fund that, in particular, provide easier access for small and medium-sized enterprises and goes that standard, which we consider very important, which allows for the first time to apply in the situations of corporate crisis the instrument of the development contract (up to now applicable in the four Regions convergence and in few others neighboring) also in other regions of our country, going therefore to touch situations of difficulties of the industrial fabric also of different areas. We could continue, but the rapporteurs have already talked about the interventions to reduce the price of energy, both on the gas and electricity side, the acceleration in the use of European funds, the rules on Expo 2015, improved in a very significant way in the work of the Commissions gathered in the Senate. See that Expo 2015 is a key moment to affirm the Italian presence in the world, therefore the competitiveness of the Italian economy in the international scenario. I believe that progress has been considerable on all this. Finally, I also mention the rule, which also made us work a lot last night, on the roofs to the remuneration of the managers of the companies participating in the public administrations. I would like to say that on this rule, in the end, there has been an important turning point which is a first step towards a more comprehensive reorganization, which will have to be considered in the future, on the way in which the remuneration of managers of public enterprises must be related to the results and must also be an overall example of efficiency and equity in the functioning of enterprises with public participation within the Italian economy. In my opinion, the rule that finally took shape is a step forward on this road, although the arrangement of the subject calls for a more general and structured reflection than the important step that was taken in the Commission yesterday. Overall, I therefore believe that the measure has an important hold as a step to help the Italian economy reverse the trend of recent years and resume a path of growth. I once again thank the Senators of the Commissions for the joint work they have done on these days. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u18	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u19	The Economic Planning Committee, the budget, examined the draft law in its title and the amendments thereto, shall, as far as it is within its competence, deliver an opinion without hindrance on the text and on the amendments adopted by the Commissions and on all the sub-amendments thereto. The opinion remains suspended on all remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u20	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Articles 1 to 12b of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain. I am aware that a number of amendments have been withdrawn, but some of them have been withdrawn at the beginning of the sitting. Only those amendments which have not been withdrawn will therefore be put to the vote. Amendments not put to the vote shall therefore be deemed to have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u23	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to make a small point and a question that we have asked ourselves in the Group: we have not been able to understand whether the long speeches by the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government have been made for a form of majority obstruction... [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ..or because the varied majority that supports this government had to be further... [[Comments of the representative of the Government.]] You've got it all figured out. These are not my words: these are the words of Minister Franceschini, who said that being a varied majority...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u24	Senator Council, you should explain the amendments. This is his assessment: the speakers and the representative of the Government spoke because they were able to do so. You should explain the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u25	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Okay. Amendment 1.15 calls for the allocation of the resources of the Guarantee Fund at regional level to be in proportion to the contribution capacities of each region, because above all those with the highest density of enterprises are those that then effectively contrast the problem of employment of this country. So, we're asking for your approval.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u26	Mr President, Amendment 2,200 tends to involve small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural and agri-food sectors. I think that it is important for the recovery of our agriculture to include it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u27	Amendment 2.14 aims to insert two lines, only two lines. We talk about enterprise, we talk about recovery, we want companies not to relocate; then why not write a small sentence? The sentence is as follows: In any event, the financing and contributions referred to in this Article shall be granted only to undertakings having their registered office and their place of business located in the national territory of the Member State concerned. This is in fact a vulnus, I am sorry, because you give the opportunity to buy machines and to take them abroad. So, in addition to paying less staff, we also pay for the machines. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u28	Amendment 3.0.1 aims to replace Article 66 of Decree-Law No 1 of 2012, as that article favours the disposal of state property land with an agricultural purpose. Instead of selling agricultural land we propose to give it to the tenant. Since it has been anticipated that a legislative proposal will shortly be submitted that will give resources to young people to buy land, it seems unnecessary to sell them now when we can lease them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u31	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I think it is necessary to make some sort of order in our work, because you are quoting all the amendments tabled to the articles and, among them, those which have been withdrawn. By the way, we are moving forward in the work with only one copy of the dossier containing the amendments, which is quite partial. Perhaps you should ask the offices when other files will also be ready and printed. Moving forward in this way becomes quite complicated and, in addition, double work is also done on the same withdrawn amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u32	I would remind you that we have already said in advance that the amendments which have been withdrawn or whose withdrawal has already been communicated to the Presidency will obviously not be put to the vote. I believe that the dossiers containing the amendments tabled up to Article 12-b have been submitted with the appropriate communications. Therefore, what we are considering for the opinions has been brought to the attention of the Groups. So let us continue with the explanation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u33	Mr President, I would just like to say that with Amendment 4.1 we are calling for the deletion of paragraph 1 of Article 4, because it is intended to keep the provisions of the previous Article and, above all, small installations under protection.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u34	Mr President, I will concentrate on two basically identical amendments tabled in Article 5, 5,2 and 5,13 which differ only for a different value of the maximum threshold (5 megawatts or one megawatt) for access to the on-site exchange service. This is an issue which we have already addressed in the Commission and which I would like to place strongly in the attention of the Government here. It concerns the possibility of exchange on the spot, which is already provided for by a decision of the Authority but is very limited. The expansion to a megawatt would really allow the spread of the so-called distributed generation. In a nutshell, it means giving real impetus to the use of renewable sources, thus moving from a system of incentives to the effective possibility of a very wide diffusion. This is about domestic uses, and it would be very important for businesses, because they would have the actual possibility to use the energy they produce by being able to exchange it on the net. I also await clarification from the Government in this regard, because we would be available - if the representatives of the Government pay attention - to withdraw the amendment and submit an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the government representatives to pay attention to the senators' speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u35	Mr President, with Amendment 6.3, we are calling for the deletion of the last lines of paragraph 1 of Article 6, which obliges farmers and farmers to respect the progressive reduction of diesel consumption for environmental purposes. In fact, it is not specified how they must be committed and who presides over the controls. In fact, given the costs of diesel oil, they are already induced to reduce consumption.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u36	Amendment 9,200 is in line with participation. We ask that the words: "special convention" be replaced with the following specific convention scheme "in order to make public, through the publication on the websites of the Ministries, the ANCI, the Regions and the local authorities, the guidelines of address; moreover, we anticipate forty-five days of time to evaluate and collect the following proposals. This is therefore a first step, an initial opening to participation and the possibility of setting up a technical table within one hundred and twenty days.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u37	Mr President, Amendment 10.2 is aimed at resolving a legislative vacuum on the recognition and approval of companies operating in network installation. Abrogating this rule, in fact, we return to articles of previous laws that oblige users to entrust only to enterprises empowered to the works of connection. Therefore, with amendment 10.2 we intend to liberalise the possibility for all companies registered in the Chamber of Commerce, which are authorized for the purpose, to set up telephone and telecommunications facilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u38	Mr President, we have tabled amendment 11.4 which contains the content of the debate (on which there was unanimity) carried out in the 7th standing Commission. With this amending proposal we ask that the maximum expenditure limit for tax incentives for production, distribution and film year be raised, for 2014, from 45 million euros to 90 million euros; moreover, we introduce the request to triennale this investment. The aim is to give concreteness to the support towards the film world, which in recent years has experienced great difficulties because it has suffered the cuts made to culture, in contrast with what happened in European countries. Therefore, we believe that this amendment is in line with what Mr Bray proposed a few days ago in the new decree on culture. Instead of failing to do so, we would be willing to withdraw it and turn it into an agenda, so that there is a commitment in the next Stability Act for an increase in resources for this sector and the introduction of the criterion of trienniality.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u39	Mr President, we withdraw amendment 12 -ter.0.207.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u40	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u41	Mr President, I am in favour of the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u42	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u43	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda will not be put to the vote. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law. For the sake of convenience, I will also recall the amendments that have been withdrawn, accepting the request of Senator De Petris, so that the progress of the work is clearer. Amendments 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.10, 1.11, 1.21, 1.22, 1.23, 1.27, 1.28, 1.35, 1.36, 1.38 and 1.39 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u44	Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendments Nos 1.14 and 1.15, otherwise the opinion is against it. I therefore support Amendments 1.20 (text 2 corrected) and 1.2 (text 2) and call for the withdrawal of Amendment 1,37, otherwise the opinion is against it. I then give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1,100, G1,101 and G1,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u45	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1,100 and G1,101. The agenda can be accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u46	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of all the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.20 (text 2 corrected). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.20 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.2 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.37. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,100 and G1,101 will not be put to the vote. Senator Bitonci, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1.102, on which the Government expressed its willingness to accept as a recommendation? BITONCI (LN-Aut). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I would remind you that amendments 2.1, 2,200, 2.6, 2.9, 2.11, 2.12, 2.13, 2.15, 2.16, 2.17, 2.19, 2.20, 2.21 and 2.22 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u47	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2.3 and I am in favour of Amendment 2.4 (correct text). The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 2.8, 2.14 and 2.20. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G2,100, G2,101 and G2,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u48	Mr President, the Government's opinion on the amendments is in line with the rapporteur's opinion. With regard to agendas G2.100 and G2.101, it is proposed to replace the words: "Recommend the Government: to adopt" with the following: "Recommend the Government to consider whether to adopt". The opinion was opposed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u49	Senator Council, do you accept the rewording proposed by the Government with regard to agendas G2.100 and G2.101? COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.100 (text 2) and G2.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of all the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.4 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.4 (correct text) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u52	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, this seemed to be an amendment of absolute common sense which cost nothing to the Government or to the state's coffers. We simply asked that the rules on financing for the purchase of new machinery, equipment and equipment by small and medium-sized enterprises be brought into force by a few months. It also seemed to be an instrument that could set the economy in motion in this sector, but I see that there has been no attention paid to it. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u53	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Bignami. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Does the rapporteur, Mrs Bernini, confirm her favourable opinion on the G2 103 agenda? BERNINI, rapporteur. Mr President, I am going back to the House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G2 103 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G2.103 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 2.0.1, 2.0.3 and 2.0.4 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.5, on which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u54	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u55	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u56	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.0.5, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 2.0.6 and 2.0.7 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 3 of the Decree-Law. I would remind you that Amendment 3.1 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u57	I am in favour of Amendment 3.3 (text 2) and the G3300 agenda. I am against Amendment 3.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u58	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. On the agenda, Mr G3,300, Mr President, I would like to ask for the following rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u59	Senator Scalia, do you accept the reformulation? SCALIA (PD). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.300 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u62	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I cannot find the text of the G3300 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u63	The G3300 agenda is on an additional sheet, of which we are providing a further copy, in addition to the one already delivered to the Groups. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic means, of all the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.3 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). My system does not work, it does not allow me to vote against the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3-a.1 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agendas referred to in Article 3-a of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u64	I am in favour of the G3-a.100 agenda. On the agenda G3- bis.101 we return to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u65	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda G3- bis.100. I am against the G3-a.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u66	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3- bis.100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3- bis.101 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Stucchi and other senators to vote on the G3- bis.101 agenda by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the additional amendments to Article 3-a of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u67	I am against Amendment 3a.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u68	I am in agreement with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u69	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3a.0.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3- bis.0.1, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3-a.0.2 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u70	I am against Amendment 4.16 and I am against Amendment 418.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u71	I am in agreement with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u72	Amendments 4.1, 4.2 and 4.6 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.16. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 4. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 4.16. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.18. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.18, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendment 4.0.1 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u73	I am against Amendments 5.2, 5.7 and 5200. I am in favour of the G5.13 agenda (which replaces Amendment 5.13) and Amendment 5,5000. I am against Amendment 5.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u74	Mr President, the Government can accept the G5.13 agenda, where it has been reworded as I shall say. I would like to point out, in order to explain the rewording, that here it is asked to impose on the Authority for the electricity and gas the predisposition of an intervention that is of strict regulatory competence: we really do not see how the Government can impose on the Independent Authority of regulation a choice of this type. Therefore, the Government can accept it only where reworded in a manner respectful of the differences in institutional roles between the Government and the Independent Regulatory Authority. (a) raising the maximum power threshold for access to service; (b) reconsideration of the requirement of physical coincidence between the points of entry and withdrawal for all users using the exchange service, taking into account the charges for dispatching, transmission, distribution and operation of the electricity network. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u75	It is a somewhat sweet text, particularly as regards point (b) on the exclusion of the requirement of physical coincidence between the points of entry and withdrawal. It is clear that the agenda was intended precisely to exclude this obligation, but at this point we accept the rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u76	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G5.13 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u79	ROMANI Paolo (PdL). Mr President, on this subject I understand the good will of the Government to turn, precisely for an instinct and a natural vocation to mediation, a precise amendment, with precise terms, into an agenda. Let me say, however, that we are making an inextricable mess. Here are two very clear concepts: raising the maximum threshold and excluding the obligation of physical coincidence. Forgive me, Secretary, but they cannot be the subject of a general agenda. With two indications so precise, peremptory and obvious to the Energy Authority we must make a choice of industrial policy: either we do it or we do not do it. An invitation cannot be made on such precise and punctual topics. Frankly, the transformation of the agenda seems to me more a mess than a solution. I am personally opposed to both the amendment and the agenda, but I would ask the Government to intervene: either it agrees with this wording, and therefore with the amendment and the concepts expressed therein, or it cannot turn a precise amendment into an agenda that has equally precise characteristics while such an instrument should have general orientation characteristics.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u80	Thank you, Senator Romani. The government accepted the agenda as reworded. In any case, we take note of your assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u83	DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development. I only intervene to explain to Senator Romani that it is one thing to fix in an amendment the obligation for the Authority, as well as the 5 MW of power and the exclusion of the obligation of coincidence; another thing is an agenda that invites the Government to reason with the Authority on a reform of the discipline of the exchange on the spot, in which they are not fixed poles incompatible with a correct reconsideration of the topic by the two authorities (Government and Independent Authority). [[Comments of Senator Paolo Romani]] I don't think there's any inconsistency on the part of the government. I have rejected the amendment on 5 MW and the exclusion of the obligation, and that is no accident.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u84	Amendment 5.1 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u85	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 5.2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 5.3, 5.4 and 5.6 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 5.8 and 5.9 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5,200 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,5000. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5,5000 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 5.10, 5.11 and 5.12 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.14 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 5.15 and 5.20 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agendas referred to in Article 5 of the decree-law in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u86	I am in favour of the agenda G5.100, G5.101 and G5.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u87	Mr President, with regard to agenda G5.100, the Government welcomes it if the presenter accepts the following rewording of the device: • to consider whether, in certain times, the provisions introduced by paragraphs 7 and 7-a of Article 5 of the measure under Title V should be reviewed. I then give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G5101 and G5102.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u88	Senator Di Biagio, do you accept the rewording of the government's agenda G5.100 proposal? DI BIAGIO (SPI). Yeah, I'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since the government has accepted the agendas G5.100 (text 2), G5.101 and G5.102, they will not be put to the vote. Amendments 5.0.2 and 5.0.200 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, bearing in mind that amendments 6.1, 6.3 and 6.5 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u89	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 6.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u90	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u91	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 6.8 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G6100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u92	I am in favour of the G6100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u93	I am voting in favour of the G6100 agenda, with the rewording of the second part of the system, which must be limited to words: 'to support the development of district heating', eliminating everything else.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u94	Senator Vaccari, do you accept the proposed reformulation? VACCARI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6100 (text2) will not be put to the vote. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 7 of the Decree-Law, bearing in mind that amendment 7.1 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u95	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 7,1000 (text 2). As far as the agenda for the G7100 is concerned, we are back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u96	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 7,1000 (text 2). With regard to the G7100 agenda, we welcome it with the following rewording of the device: "to assess the possibility of actions aimed at clarifying the will" etc.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u97	Senator Orellana, do you accept the reformulation? Orellana (M5S). Yeah, I'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,1000 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. [[Ironic applause from the PdL Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7,1000 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 9 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u98	Mr President, I am against Amendments 9.4 and 9.9, while I am in favour of Amendment 9.6. I also welcome the G9-a.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u99	As far as the amendments are concerned, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. The government then accepts the agenda G9- bis.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u100	Having been accepted by the Government, the G9- bis.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendments 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.4. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 9. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9.7 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 9,200 and 9,8 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.9 tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 9.10 and 9-a.200 have been withdrawn. The amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 9-a of the Decree-Law were all withdrawn, as well as the amendments relating to Article 10 of the Decree-Law. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agendas referred to in Article 10 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u101	Mr President, I am in favour of the G10100, G10101 and G10102 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u102	Mr President, the Government accepts the G10.100 agenda. The Government also accepts the agendas of the G10.101 and G10.102, with an invitation to reformulation of the device in the following terms:
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u103	I would ask the presenters whether they intend to accept the invitation made by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u104	Mr President, as we are seeing, the rapporteur expresses opinions and then undersecretary De Vincenti never denies it. With the agenda presented by us we really have the opportunity to give a boost in our country to the whole electronic communications system (TLC). What we ask is to do the Italians a favor, that is to abolish the anachronistic government concession fee on mobile phones without additional charges for the country, doing just one thing: asking the parasites of the Net to pay what they do not pay. Today, in fact, there are a lot of Internet parasites, Mr. Undersecretary, who do not pay taxes in our country. I'm talking about Google and how many more. Private citizens in our country pay 5.16 euros per month for government concessions, traders 12.91 euros. I understand that the rapporteur, quite rightly, shares this principle which is also written in the principles of your Government. But once again, Mr. Undersecretary, as well as being an enemy of gas stations in border areas [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] She is also the enemy, as always, of all Italians. You know what's paradoxical? That dealers agree. The only one who doesn't agree is you, as always. Mr Undersecretary, we have fought several times already during the previous parliamentary term, because we think in a diametrically opposite way, but today it is making a bad impression. We would like to give you the opportunity to bring your opinion into line with the one expressed by the rapporteur, otherwise this Parliament will look really bad. I also appeal to my fellow Members to stress that this is something that needs to be done. So, Mr. Undersecretary, save yourself for once! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u105	Having been accepted by the Government, the G10.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Then there are two agendas presented by the Lega Nord Group. I'd like to hear from Senator Crosio if he keeps his position on both agendas of the day G10.101 and G10.102? CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the rapporteur once again to comment on these two agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u106	I'm going back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u107	What does the government representative say, in light of Senator Crosio's intervention?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u108	Your objection, Senator Crosio, is about the formula "to assess the opportunity" when the whole text is accepted? Is that the problem?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u109	We have to step in! I don't ask: the Italians ask. Do you understand that or do I have to write it another way? [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u110	The acceptance of the agendas subject to the inclusion of the words: "Evaluating the opportunity" is already a commitment to take this matter into account. If you think it's not enough... [[Ironic comments of the PdL Group.]] Well, you're not kidding. [[Comments from Senators Palma and Caliendo.]] It seems to me that we are trying to accept them with the proposed reformulation. [[Comments of Senator Crosio]] So, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u113	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). So, we have come to this House with good intentions, we have withdrawn the amendments, we have made them of all colors! Mr Undersecretary, I understand that the truth is that you have given an opinion and the rapporteur has given another opinion. We maintain the state of affairs and want the G10.101 agenda to be voted on in the original text. Already an agenda is not denied to anyone, then if you want to water it down enough to make it a mockery I am not [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u114	He asked once again to speak to Undersecretary De Vincenti. We hope that this will be a final speech, otherwise we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u115	At this point the opinion is opposed because, Senator Crosio, when an agenda is presented which has a very important coverage problem such as this one, we must know that we cannot ask for such a commitment. [[Senator Volpi's lively comments.]] CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Don't make fun of me! DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development. It must be known that such a commitment can only be requested... VOLPI (LN-Aut). You have had 4,000 amendments to vote on! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, please. DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development. ...in terms of assessing the opportunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u116	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G10.101 agenda. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G10.101, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 272 Senators voting 271 Majority 136 Favorable 143 Contrars 118 Absent 10]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Happy applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S groups. Senator Volpi's comments.]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I would once again ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G10.102 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u117	I'm going back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u118	I confirm the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u121	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, let us withdraw the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u122	Colleagues, the agenda for G10.102 has been withdrawn, as has Amendment 10.0.1. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, bearing in mind that amendment 11.3 has been withdrawn. In addition, Senator Petraglia expressed her intention to turn amendment 11.4 into an agenda, trusting in a positive assessment by the rapporteurs and the Government. Otherwise, the amendment would remain alive.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u123	Mr President, on the agenda for G11.4 (which would replace amendment 11.4) we are returning to the Government, while on the agenda for G11.100 and G11.101 the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u124	The agenda G11.4, by Senator Petraglia, can be accepted with the following rewording: It commits the Government to assess the possibility of previewing (...) in point (b) the reference to 90 million euros. Point (b) would therefore read: "A simultaneous increase in the expenditure ceiling for each year of the three-year period 2014-2016".
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u125	The rapporteur, Senator Bernini, points out that she agrees. I ask the presenter if she accepts the rewording proposed by the government. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.4 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I invite the representative of the Government to speak on the agenda for G11.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u126	I propose that the agenda be reworded as follows:
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u127	I ask Senator Marcucci if he agrees with the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u128	Mr President, I accept the rewording, but I must stress that, in any case, with the presentation of the decree "culture value," the Government could also have expressed a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u129	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would remind you that on the agenda, the rapporteur, Mrs G11.101, expressed a favourable attitude. I call on the Government representative to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u130	The Government gives a favourable opinion with the request to remove the following words from the device: "quantifiable in the figure of 90 million euros per year".
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u131	Senator Centinario, I'm asking if you accept the government's request. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'm in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 11.0.2, 11.0.4, 11.0.200, 11-a.1, 11-a.2 and 11-a.3 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 11-a.1000.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u132	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u133	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u134	Amendment 11-a.6 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G11-a.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u135	We're going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u136	This is a very complex agenda which the Government accepts as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u139	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to express to you some discomfort caused by the fact that we are working and debating in a general confusion, which is not only generated by the atmosphere of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefano, we are working in an orderly manner following the order of the tabling of amendments and agendas. STEFANO (Misto-SEL). We don't have the cards at our disposal. You tell me we're working neatly. On the contrary, we have difficulty reading what we are discussing. What are the documents? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are on page 95 of the amendment file. STEFANO (Misto-SEL). You probably had a preferential lane, because I'm having a hard time getting the file we're working on.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u140	It is obvious that the Presidency must be more than documented. But a number of colleagues are now showing page 95 of the amendment file in this House. You, then, Senator Stefano, presented the agenda, so you are supposed to have your copy. Either way, we wait. The Government made its observation and accepted it as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u141	This agenda had been approved in the Commission. I remember that the agreement had been made that the agendas as well as the amendments had to be...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u144	DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development. In the Commission, there was talk of a commitment to assess the appropriateness. We are talking about 150 million, the first paragraph of the device, and 50 million per second. I welcome this agenda as a recommendation. If the recommendation is not accepted, I am against it. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u145	I think it is a good thing that we should open up this agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u148	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I only speak so that I can understand. It is already very difficult to work without the means... PRESIDENT. Excuse me, but what means are you referring to? All senators have the cards at their disposal. URAS (Misto-SEL). It is already very complicated to work without the necessary means. We do all the tour de force we're asked for. Some feelings were requested by the majority. This is an agenda that has been signed by all the members of the Commission, because there was a general consensus. So either you vote as it was subscribed or you don't care about the government's position.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u151	ROMANI Paolo (PdL). Mr President, while I could not agree with Mr De Vincenti before, at this point in the debate I think I agree with him. The issues raised, beyond the problem of restoring EUR 150 million on the second part of the agenda, concern the so-called LCN (I do not know how many of you know what this acronym can mean) and the reserve of one third of the frequencies. All these matters are reserved for the Authority, as in the previous case. It is at least improper and irrational. I do not know if anyone from my Group has signed this agenda in the Commission, but if he had, I would ask him to read the agenda better. It seems to me that this is the only way to make a fuss. An agenda so horizontal, at 360 degrees, on all issues of the local issue, some of which of very close relevance to the Authority, has a value close to zero. I repeat that this only gives rise to confusion. I would therefore ask Mr De Vincenti and the rapporteur to confirm the opposite opinion and ask my group and those in the majority to vote against the agenda. This is not the way to solve the problems, especially those of local broadcasters.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u154	CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, I would like to make an assessment which, at this moment, does not, Senator Paolo Romani, allow me, of the substance and content of the agenda we are debating. The agendas already have a rather special and often, on the parliamentary path, it has happened that their implementation in practice has remained a dead letter. It is, however, proof of seriousness on the part of the Government to assume its responsibilities without downloading them on a general acceptance that then most of the time does not have a concrete follow-up. Therefore, to be honest, the fact that Mr De Vincenti reserves the right to accept him as a recommendation is not a way to put his responsibilities on the House, but it is a sign of seriousness which, in my opinion, the House should simply accept; I repeat, in fact, that so many times - too many - in the parliamentary way have been accepted so hundreds of agendas of the day, then remained dead letter. Therefore, if we want to change the policy, since the old policy must be wound up, we must ensure that the new policy is not worse than the previous one. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u157	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, just a few minutes ago, Senators Caridi and D'Anna, sitting in my row, had a malaise about the temperature in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u158	I've already begged the offices to provide. A technician will intervene; if I knew where the knob is, I would personally go to the place! However, I trust that someone is providing. However, I renew your appeal to the competent persons. FALANGA (PdL). Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u161	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Mr President, I have listened to both Mr Uras' motives and those of Senator Paolo Romani. I would point out that confusion on the subject is determined by the government's continued absence of a clear line. In fact, the "visas" and "considered" and the presuppositions commit the Government to clarity on a subject relating to the disapplied law of 1993; but to date, after a discussion that has lasted for a long time, even in the previous legislature, there has not been a point of response. This undoubtedly leads to an imbalance between the powers of the Commission and those of Parliament, and then stresses the need to restore a sector which is penalised for the disapplication of a law which has been voted by Parliament and which specifically allocates economic resources. I would like to point out that in the last parliamentary term, for several times, I have joined the Government's request to transform the agendas (I believe that in the last parliamentary term one was also signed by my colleague Vita). Mr President, the issue remains open because we have not been able to give an answer. I believe, however, that we must be consequent, even in accordance with the provisions of the other branch of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u162	I do not intend to go into the matter because it is an ancient and complex matter. We now have the following situation: the Government has declared that it accepts the agenda as a recommendation; if the presenter does not agree, the Government will give an opinion against it. Therefore, the presenter has the right to insist or not. It seems to me that Senator Stefano intends to insist on voting on the agenda G11- bis.100, insisting on the vote, the Government gives an opinion against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u163	Mr President, we accept this recommendation. However, we are asking for a little attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u164	If you will allow me, Senator Uras, the agenda - as I say to the Assembly - concerns, among other things, the issue of support for local broadcasting: it is a vexed question concerning an interpretation of the 1993 law on the RAI canon, a situation which I personally know quite well. So, he picks me up prepared. URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, there are many workers and many broadcasters. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Uras, in support of your thesis I would add that the Presidency for random reasons has an in-depth knowledge of the subject: it is the local issue and its presence on the territory. So, thank you for actually accepting the Government's request. At this point, if the Undersecretary agrees, I would consider the agenda accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u165	Mr President, I rise to thank Senator Uras and the other draftsmen on the agenda for accepting the adoption as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u166	The Presidency welcomes this positive sign for the local issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u168	Senator, do you wish to add your signature to the agenda accepted as a recommendation? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Yes, ma'am. You have a great ability to intuition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so. FLORIS (PdL). Mr President, I would also ask you to add the signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u169	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so. The numerous senators who wish to add their signature will be able to report it to the Presidency. I would say that there is a unanimous concert from all over the House. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11-a.1000. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11-a.1000 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 11-a.6 and 11-a.0.1 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment to Article 12 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u170	Mr President, I am against Amendment 12.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u171	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u172	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12.1 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 12-a of the Decree-Law, bearing in mind that amendments 12-a.3, 12-a.4, 12-a.7 and 12-a.0.1 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u173	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 12-a.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u174	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u175	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12-a.1. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12-a.1, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 974
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u178	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, I would just like to point out that the electronic system did not work and that I wanted to vote in favour of amendment 12-a.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u181	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, my vote was also in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u182	I would ask the other Members to report their vote to the Presidency. I would remind you that amendments 12-b.0.1, 12-b.0.200, 12-b.0.201, 12-b.0.202, 12-b.0.203, 12-b.0.204, 12-b.0.205, 12-b.0.206 and 12-b.0.207 have been withdrawn. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 12-b.0.208.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u183	Mr President, my opinion is against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u184	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u185	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12 - ter.0.208. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12-b.0.208, tabled by Senators Bencini and Catalfo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 974
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u188	BERNINI, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to ask for half an hour's suspension, since the remaining amendments have not yet been submitted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u189	The Presidency has half an hour's suspension, so work will resume at 5.40 p.m. In the meantime, I would ask the offices to ensure a better condition for the atmosphere in this House. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.06 p.m. and resumed at 5.50 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the rapporteurs, the sitting is suspended again. We are working on opinions, and we are asking for a little patience. Work will resume at 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.51 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u190	Let's resume our work. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has been informed of the disappearance of Senator Umberto Carpi, who has been a member of this House for several legislative purposes, as well as a member of the Government. The Senate expresses its condolences to the family and recalls Senator Carpi with a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly stands and observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u191	We proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Articles 13 et seq. of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u194	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, we wanted to ask you at least 20-30 minutes of suspension to study what has been delivered to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u195	You know, having attended the meeting of the Parents, that it was decided to go all the way. Following the amendments, the rapporteurs and the Government will be called upon to express their views. There is no time to study. Opinions will be given and votes will be taken on the basis of them. That is the practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u198	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, all we are asking for is a suspension, not an extension of time. The list of amendments has only been available for a quarter of an hour. We ask for time to read them and possibly modify them, not to study them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u199	Now we have to ask the senators if they want to explain the amendments, then the rapporteur and the government to deliver the prescribed opinions and then we have to vote. No study phase is planned. I assure you, that's normal practice. The novelty is represented only by opinions, but there is no stage to study something. SANTANGELO (M5S). I understand the practice, but it would be appropriate if we could go further. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand, but for what purpose? SANTANGELO (M5S). The list of amendments has come in for 15 minutes and there is really no time to analyse them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, with all the good will... Mr President, if it is not possible, let us run. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But we don't have to run.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u201	He has already spoken, but he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u202	MORRA (M5S). If at least he'll use the courtesy to slow down a little bit the times...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u203	The aim is to examine the measure. However, we were presenting the amendments; then the opinions will be expressed, and this is the usual modus operandi. We'll try to do it with all the calm we need.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u206	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I am not going to table amendments, but I am going to ask for clarification. I would like to know, given that the file of amendments has been distributed now, whether the Government has tabled amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u207	I do not see any further amendments: no. The amendments are well-known. Opinions have been developed to enable our work to progress smoothly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u208	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the G18.101 agenda for the areas affected by the Lunigiana and Garfagnana earthquakes. The Tuscany Region takes charge of all the necessary financing for the restructuring of private houses. However, they must be released from the Stability Pact. Neither more nor less than what we have done for the other regions, the last of which was Emilia-Romagna. Since the agenda has been signed in a completely transversal manner, almost unanimously, by the senators of this House, we ask the Government and the rapporteurs to give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u209	Mr President, amendment 22,200 is aimed at tackling a problem that concerns the Italian portualità relative to the pretension of the Municipalities to apply the ICI, today IMU, on the marine state property in harbour within. The Department of Finance has already intervened with Resolution 3 of 10 August 2009, in which it clearly establishes, in relation to the concept of the state property area, that it is exempt from ICI, if it is part of a compendium destined to the marine traffic and/or operations strictly necessary to harbour activities. However, despite this ministerial provision the Municipalities continue to demand the application of the ICI, today IMU, and the Agency of the territory continues to refuse to classify in category E1 even the harbour terminals, where the goods of the ships are disembarked. The amendment therefore clarifies the non-applicability of the provisions on the IMU to the goods of the marine State property in absentee harbour within concession for uses pertaining to the transport goods and the logistics. With this amendment we are therefore clear on what has already been defined by the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u210	Mr President, Amendment 26-a.1, which costs nothing, would be a great pleasure for small and medium-sized enterprises. It calls for the contracting station to pay the subcontractor directly. Therefore, when there is a considerable amount of work, the affidavit informs the various works carried out by the subcontractors, who will bill directly to both the affidavit and the contracting station so that, in the state of progress, they will take the money directly and will not act as banks for the trustees. I trust that those who say they love small and medium-sized enterprises will approve this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u211	Mr President, I would briefly like to explain Amendment No 25,200, which was proposed for a principle of reasonableness. We have told the Commission that this decree is heterogeneous and contradictory. In this article we address the issue of the organization of ANAS, an absolutely strategic company, but we do not see the urgency needed to include specific provisions in this decree. Through an amendment passed to the House, the issue was changed in a sense that was not foreseen in the initial text presented by the Government, without an adequate discussion. Many Members have put this issue in general discussion. Instead, Parliament's and this House's commitment would be to address this issue in an appropriate manner with the protagonism and commitment of the House and Senate Commissions in order to adopt a measure. In the meantime, we would like - and this amendment is intended to achieve this - to restore the conditions prior to the adoption of the amendment by the House. (18.14) (Following CERVELLINI). That's all it is. Ours is a proposal of absolute reasonableness, in order to leave the facts in a secular and balanced way to the discussion and the weighted decision. This is a very sensitive subject which will characterize the work of this House. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in a different situation than the same design made by the government. So the remarks I ask the senators and the senators are of this nature. Even before politics is concerned with the choice of giving the right weight and the right value to the debate that this House and the whole of Parliament are discussing in relation to a strategic perspective, the one concerning the fate of ANAS, which is not the subject of the so-called decree of doing. In a surreptitious way, an amendment has been tabled to the House which does not really respond to the complexity of the subject. I ask from this point of view to make a reasoning and also a pause for reflection, not postponing sine die. We are absolutely at the disposal of the Chamber and Senate Commissions to face it on the chest, but with organicity, therefore not within the decree-law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u212	Amendments 13.2, 13.3, 13.5, 13.6, 13.8, 13.9, 13.11 and 13.12 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u215	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti, rapporteur. Madam President, it has been established that Amendment 13.13 actually reproduces exactly the text of the House, so it is withdrawn at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u216	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendments 13.14, 13.16, 13.18 and 13.21 have also been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u219	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, 13.13 is an amendment by the Commissions. I ask you whether the rapporteur can withdraw it even if the other members of the Commission do not agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u220	Senator Comaroli, this is a technical withdrawal because this amendment reproduces another provision already contained in the text. It is therefore not a political-legislative assessment, but simply coordination.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u223	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask you a courtesy. The dossier we have at our disposal includes all the amendments tabled. We need to give ourselves a slightly different work organization. I would ask you to state more slowly only the remaining amendments or those which have been withdrawn, in order to be able to mark them. Otherwise, we cannot keep up with voting methods. We're racing, but we're not understanding anything. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am asking you whether you can have a dossier containing only the amendments and agendas to be voted on or have the courtesy to mark them and proceed item by article, because we are moving forward in a rush.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u224	Senator Santangelo, until now, no amendments have been tabled that have not been withdrawn. We have only mentioned the withdrawn amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u225	SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask you whether, starting with Article 13, it is possible to know one by one the amendments we are voting on.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u226	The amendments tabled to Article 13 of the Decree-Law have all been withdrawn. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda referred to in Article 13 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u227	Madam President, I am in favour of the G13.100 and G13.101 agendas. I am also in favour of the agendas G13.102 and G13.103, but with the rewording that the representative of the Government will propose.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u228	Madam President, the Government accepts the agendas of the G13,100 and G13,101. It also accepts the agenda G13.102, provided that the words "of at least EUR 30 million per year" are deleted from the system from 2013 onwards. Therefore, the mechanism would become the following: to take all necessary measures, including regulatory measures, to make investments in the computerization of justice, including in order to optimize justice services with a view to improving the efficiency of the related organization, both computer science and telematics. The Government also accepts the agenda G13.103, provided that the mechanism is reworded as follows: The Government is committed: to comply with the time limits still not complied with by Decree-Law No. 179, converted, with amendments, by Law No. 221 of 17 December 2012, in the matter of digitalization.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u229	Senator Bitonci, do you accept the rewordings proposed by the government representative of the agendas G13.102 and G13.103? BITONCI (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G13.100, G13.101, G13.102 (text 2) and G13.103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments tabled to Article 13-a of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u230	I am in favour of amendment 13-a.2 and against amendment 13-a.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u231	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u232	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13-a.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 13- bis.2 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 13-a.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u233	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u235	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, Amendment 13-a.0.1 actually translates into practical and concrete terms the agenda on which Mr De Vincenti gave his opinion, but which the House then wanted to make its own, because it has been agreed that it is time for the government tax on mobile phones to be lifted in our country. We believe that, in line with what we have said on the agenda, we can therefore commit the Government so that this can really be implemented quickly and surely. Mr Undersecretary, the cover - contrary to what you have tried to make us understand just now - is available. It is clear that the government needs a blow and, in particular, it needs to do so with regard to the digital agenda of the country. I understand that, with regard to the Digital Agenda, we are replying or would like to replicate the digital legend that we have unfortunately seen with the Monti Government and on which we have fought so many times. I believe that this really is an opportunity to achieve in practical terms what is provided for in the adopted agenda, in a way that is consistent with what we have done. I have no doubt that colleagues who previously voted in favour of the agenda will have the will to stimulate the Government in a serious and incisive manner on Amendment 13- bis.0.1. Mr Undersecretary, you yourself have the opportunity to rehabilitate yourself with this House, as well as with the Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u236	I confirm the opinion that has been expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u237	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u238	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u239	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u240	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 13-a.1 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment to Article 14 of the Decree-Law, bearing in mind that amendments 14.4 and 14.0.1 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u241	Madam President, I naturally support Amendment 14.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u242	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u243	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 14.1 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 17 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u244	Mr President, I naturally support Amendments 17.1, 17.2 and 17.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u245	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u246	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 17. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 17.1 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 17.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 17.2 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 17.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 17.3 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda referred to in Article 17-a of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u247	Madam President, we call for the G17-a.100 agenda to be accepted as a recommendation. I am in favour of the G17-a.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u248	Madam President, the Government is willing to accept the G17-a agenda. 100 as a recommendation and accepts the agenda G17- bis.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u249	Senator Marinello, you insist on voting on the agenda, which the representative of the government has declared to be willing to accept as a recommendation? MARINELLO (PdL). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not insist on the vote, the G17-a.100 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G17- bis.101 will not be put to the vote. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 18 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u250	I am against Amendments 18.1, 18.4 and 18.6 in favour of Amendment 18.13 and against Amendment 18.20. I am in favour of Amendments 18.21 and 18.23 (text 2). My view is also opposed to Amendments 18.28, 18.33, 18.36 and 18.45. As regards the G18,100 agenda, the opinion was in favour, but called for a rewording to include the words: "to assess the appropriateness". The opinion was in favour of the G18.101 agenda, as well as the G18.102 agenda, with the call for rewording to include the formula: "to assess the possibility of rewording." On the agenda, Mr G18.103, the opinion is in favour of a rewording, on which we refer to the Government's opinion. On the agenda, Mr G18.104, the opinion supported the call for a rewording of the words: "to consider the possibility". The opinion was in favour of the G18.105 agenda and opposed to the G18.106 agenda. The G18.107 agenda contains a text that is already included in the decree, so we consider it ultraroneo and invite the presenters to withdraw. Finally, the opinion is opposed to Amendments 18.0.1 and 18.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u251	Madam President, on the amendments to Article 18 of the Decree-Law, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. On Senator Vaccari's agenda, Mr G18,100, the opinion was in favour of the rewording proposed by the rapporteur, i.e.: I welcome the G18.101 agenda, as well as the G18.102 agenda, but with the following rewording: The G18.103 agenda was adopted with the following rewording: "to strengthen verification interventions through its own technicians of compliance with the regulations". The agenda was adopted with the following rewording: The opinion was in favour of the G18.105 agenda and against the G18.106 agenda, and I would ask the authors to withdraw. The G18.107 agenda is supplementary, as the rapporteur has already explained. Finally, the opinion is opposed to Amendments Nos 18.0.1 and 18.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u252	Amendments 18,200 and 18,201 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u253	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u255	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, in order to be swifter, we call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of all the amendments to Article 18 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u256	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 18.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 18.202, 18.2, 18.203 and 18.3 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 18.4 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 18.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 18.9, 18.10, 18.11 and 18.12 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.13 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 18.13 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 18.14, 18.16 and 18.18 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 18.20 tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 18.21 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendment 18.22 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.23 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 18.23 (2nd text) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 18.24, 18.25, 18.204, 18.205 and 18.27 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u259	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask the Secretary-General and the rapporteur for clarification, since they have given a favourable opinion on the G18.105 agenda, which in fact presents the same content as the amendment before us: both of them are asking to be able to include the municipalities benefiting from the programme in the list of municipalities eligible for the programme, including the municipalities with a population of up to 15,000 inhabitants. Mr Secretary, we note a discrepancy between the favourable opinion on the agenda, which is very specific and timely, and the contrary opinion on the amendment which, in summary, requires the same thing. It is okay that an agenda is not denied to anyone, but in this case there is an inconsistency. I would ask you whether you can reconsider your opinion on Amendment 18.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u262	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I would actually like to report a wrong vote. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u263	You need to report it to the offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u264	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u266	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, on a point of order. I would like to know whether the Rules of Procedure have been changed between votes. We in the 5 Star Movement happened to have never been given the word after the opening of the votes. I would ask you to clarify this point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Crosio asked for an explanation of vote. I didn't see the senator who asked for the floor. GIARRUSSO (M5S). But the vote was open. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was not a matter of regulation, but of attention and courtesy. I will try to be just as polite to everyone, within the limits of attention to the raises of hand. GIARRUSSO (M5S). I was not referring to you, Madam President, but I was a general comment. It has happened several times: we have asked for the floor and we have been denied the motivation that the vote was now open.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u267	Great. I intended to give the senator the floor because I was distracted and it was my fault, so it seemed right to have him speak in an explanation of vote. In the light of Senator Crosio's request, I would ask the Government whether it intends to amend the opinion on Amendment 18.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u268	No, I confirm the negative opinion. [[Senator Crosio points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u269	You can't intervene twice, Senator Crosio. You can't take advantage of the courtesy. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 18.28 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 18.29, 18.30 and 18.32 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.33. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 18.33 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 18,206 and 18,38 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.36. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 18.36 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 18.37, 18.39, 18.42 and 18.43 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.45. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 18.45 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. On the agenda, Mr G18.100, a rewording was suggested. Senator Vaccari, do you accept it?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u270	Madam President, I understand the government's caution, but in this case we are talking about a text consisting of two agendas that have been assembled, after the House had approved them during the debate on the ecobonus decree-law. The same text has been assembled in order to stress, here too, the importance of measures which will enable the measure to be put back into practice. I am, therefore, a little surprised by the opinion of both the rapporteur and the Government, because it is the same text approved by the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u271	Does the government insist on reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u272	Yes. Let us make this clear, also in relation to other situations that may arise. Whenever there is a problem of covering or finding financial resources, it is customary for us to include in the text of the agenda, although on matters that we fully agree with, the words "to assess the opportunity" or "to assess the possibility". Which doesn't mean the government isn't trying, but it's just trying -- exactly -- to find a solution. If the commitment, however, implies that we already have the solution, I cannot take it, and I think it is correct not to take it that way. I therefore invite Senator Vaccari to accept the reformulation, because on this issue there is really the sharing of the Government and all the intention to apply this agenda. We, however, move with this rule: every time there is a problem of finding financial resources, we can only reserve the right to commit ourselves to trying to find them. That is exactly the point of the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u273	Senator Vaccari, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u274	No, I simply said that the House was given a different attitude and I welcome the invitation of the Government and the rapporteur, but I repeat that two different attitudes have been used.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u275	However, he accepts the rewording. Therefore, having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G18.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Having been accepted by the Government, the G18.101 agenda will also not be put to the vote. On the agenda G18.102 there is a proposal for reformulation by the Government: does it welcome it, Senator Bitonci? BITONCI (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G18.102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. On the agenda G18.103 there is a proposal for reformulation by the Government: do you accept it, Senator Nugnes? NUGNES (M5S). I'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G18.103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. On the agenda G18.104 is there an invitation to reformulation, do you accept that, Senator Santangelo? SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G18.104 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Let us turn to agenda G18.105.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u276	Madam President, I spoke earlier on this very agenda on which you, Mr Undersecretary, gave a favourable opinion and on which the rapporteur also gave a favourable opinion, and I put it in relation to Amendment 18.28. We can also be on different positions, but when a senator asks her for an opinion it is polite to give an answer. Since I see you in a lot of difficulty, to give you a hand, since I am more ladies, or I try to be, I withdraw the agenda G18.105, even if you gave a favourable opinion. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u277	The Presidency takes note of this. On the agenda, Mr G18.106, did the Government give an opinion against the vote, does it insist on the vote, Senator Bitonci? BITONCI (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President, I request the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G18.106 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on the agenda of G18.106, presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. On the agenda, Mr G18.107, there is an invitation to withdraw. Do you welcome him, Senator Comrade? COMPAGNONE (GAL). I'm taking him back.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u278	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u279	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u280	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u281	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I rise on Amendment 18.0.1. As I said in the illustration, these are resources already allocated by the State and the Regions for the earthquake areas of Lunigiana and Garfagnana, areas for which the state of emergency has been proclaimed and in respect of which the President of the Council last Thursday in this House said it was right and proper to include in this decree the possibility of exclusion from the Stability Pact, using the money of the Region. To sign it there are two former presidents, President Martini and President Chiti, the first signatory is obviously Senator Bondi, who is from those areas and knows them well, but also Senator Matteoli and other colleagues, like Senator Nencini, who made the city councilman in that region. These are resources that exist in that Region, and let us not forget that on 9 September schools start, that have been damaged; the Region has the money for the restructuring of public and private structures, it does not want anything from the State, it is obviously enough that we give it the opportunity to spend them, because the Stability Pact prevents it from taking out the money that is already there, that it has already set aside, a small savings that it has made in the regional budget to allow these restructurings, obviously to give our children the opportunity to take advantage of the schools, but also for some small intervention on hospitals and private structures. Let us not forget that in those areas winter is hell, it is cold and the houses need to be renovated because people cannot be left in the tent cities. That is the point of the amendment, and I would therefore ask Members to approve it unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u282	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u284	CHITI (PD). Madam President, I would like to make a few comments, including on behalf of some of my party's colleagues who have signed Amendment 18.0.1, about which Senator Barani has now spoken. I believe that not only the Government, but also Parliament - and this is not the first time - must be reminded of this, which is the following. When a situation of natural disaster is determined and the Government itself recognizes that there is a natural disaster, this situation is addressed and, if it is not possible at that time, it is said when and how; otherwise, it is only possible to take action against citizens from the momentary situation of the availability of resources in the coffers of the State. If this is the case, it will determine - whether you are aware of it or not - a situation whereby citizens who are in the same conditions are listed in series A or in series B. Then they come to determine themselves in our country, which really does not need it, situations of tension. Who can explain now to the citizens of Lunigiana and Garfagnana, who have suffered damage in their homes and who need 55 million euros to rebuild the houses that cannot have them? Among other things, they have suffered damage only in their homes, because in 1997 and then in 2007, the Tuscany Region, as is also shown by studies of experts in volcanology, adopted laws of intervention and help to families to try to secure those seismic zones. Recently - fortunately - even the central state has done so, with the forecast of a 65% tax deductions for the interventions of seismic security of the houses. Who goes to tell these citizens, not only that they cannot benefit from these interventions, but that they do not give the possibility to the Tuscany Region, which has EUR 55 million willing to be invested, to derogate from the Internal Stability Pact, as well as, by means of a law, could it be allowed? Senator Barani, we need a law, because - unfortunately - it is not automatic. In fact, the Civil Protection Act says that this is the case and that we can intervene for two years. We will, of course, be voting on this amendment (I do so with a calm conscience), but I would like to address the Undersecretary (I have also spoken to the President of the Council): be careful, because the amendments can be rejected, but if we do not intervene in the same way towards citizens who are in the same situation, we do not govern, but we multiply situations of division and tension. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u285	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u287	DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development. I would like to point out to the senators who have spoken that the Government shares the need that has been expressed and, in fact, has given a favourable opinion, without proposing a rewording, on the G18.101 agenda, which essentially follows the amendment in question. The problem is that we cannot give a favourable opinion on the amendment, because, at this time in our parliamentary debate, the same is discovered. Therefore, the Government cannot give a favourable opinion on the amendment. I would have called for an agenda, but this has already been presented and fully accepted by the Government, which means that in the first useful measure we will remedy this point. At this moment in our parliamentary debate we can only express a negative opinion, because the amendment in question has no cover. That is the only reason for our negative opinion. If I may, I would ask the proposed senators to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u288	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u289	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u290	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I apologise for speaking again, but in order to work in a more orderly way, I would like to know whether it is possible, in advance, to mark all the amendments that have been withdrawn, and then to go and discuss only those that have not been withdrawn (i.e. not Article by Article), so that we have already defined the scope of those to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u291	I think that perhaps, by proceeding with article by article, you understand better. Indeed, if we were to remove all the withdrawn amendments, we would have to suspend the work because we do not have all the amendments. I think there is more confusion: article by article we mention only those amendments that have not been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u292	I understand, but the basic misunderstanding arises from an annex which is all-embracing, including amendments that have not been withdrawn. In order to simplify the work of this House, we will lose ten minutes, but we will be sent more later. At least at the beginning of the article, the withdrawals can be listed in order to simplify the work. That is the only purpose of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u293	We will try to facilitate the work of the Groups in relation to the situation that has arisen.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u294	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u295	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u296	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I rise on Amendment 18.0.1 to understand the meaning of Senator Chiti's speech. He said that he was forced to vote on this amendment because he signed it, but at the same time he said to be careful because the same is so partial and particular that the same attention should be paid to the rest of the world. I do not know if I have interpreted this statement well, but it is as I had read the amendment as well: it seemed very special to me, without taking anything away from the gravity of the situations affecting those areas. So it seemed interesting to me his interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u297	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u299	GRANAIOLA (PD). I would like to put my signature to Amendment 18.0.1 and I am voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u300	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u301	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u303	FALANGA (PdL). If you have already rejected Senator Santangelo's motion, I do not need to intervene. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask that the debate on the additional article be concluded and that it not be intertwined with the procedural question. FALANGA (PdL). President, since Senator Santangelo has made a request... I did not reject it: I said that we will try to give an indication of the amendments withdrawn for a number of articles, so as to facilitate their work because they must be guided by the vote on the amendments. FALANGA (PdL). Sure, though, always proceeding article by article? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then we will proceed article by article. FALANGA (PdL). It is through this system that understanding of what is voted becomes easier.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u304	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u305	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u306	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I rise to withdraw, in agreement with all the authors, Amendment 18.0.1 on the basis of the intervention of the Undersecretary De Vincenti and the commitment that the Government takes. I also wanted to clarify to Senator Volpi what I meant. The law, as it is done, calls for ad hoc rules to be made on each case, otherwise the stability pact for those regions and local authorities does not change either; it is therefore clear that this was ad hoc for those situations. I said that a modern country with a minimum of solidarity - I would like to try to consider ours as such - should make sure that there is an automaticity, because citizens who are in the same situation, if it is recognized that they have had a natural disaster, cannot be treated differently. If we create first-class and second-class citizens, we have a divided country. I would like to remind the Undersecretary of a consideration that Senator Barani made, which is true: these are very small municipalities, houses and schools, we try to find the means as we have done for other situations, because there are no earthquakes and earthquakes, but earthquakes that strike everywhere and floods that strike everywhere. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, LAG and Senators Giannini and D'Onghia groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u307	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.0.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 18.0.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. At this point, however, to access the request made earlier, for a number of articles I will indicate the amendments that have been withdrawn, so that we know what are the ones on which the debate will focus. Amendments 19.1, 19.2, 19.4, 19.5, 19.6, 19.8, 19.9, 20.1, 20.2, 20.3, 21.1, 22.1, 22.2, 23.4, 24.1, 24.2, 24.3, 24.4, 24.5, 24.7, 25.2, 25.4, 25.5, 25.7, 25.8, 25.11, 25.13, 25.14, 25.15 and 25.19 are therefore withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 19 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u308	Madam President, I am against Amendments 19.2 and 19.3. The opinion is in favour of amendment 19.7 (text 2 corrected). The opinion was opposed to the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u309	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u310	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u312	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 19.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u313	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u314	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u315	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to point out that Amendment 19.2 was withdrawn, as was Amendment 19.1. In particular, for amendment 19.2 a specific agenda had been deposited, on which it was expected to know the Government's opinion if necessary and then to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u316	I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G19.2 agenda, the text of which has been distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u317	I welcome this opinion, but I call for it to be reworded by including the words "the Government is committed to assessing the need to protect" instead of the words "the Government is committed to protecting".
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u318	I agree with the rapporteur's proposal for a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u319	Senator Fravezzi, do you accept the proposed reformulation? FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G19.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u320	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u321	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u322	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 19.3. However, I would like to ask the Government to reconsider its opinion on the same agenda G19.100, because we had found a different wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u323	When we get there, Senator Zeller. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 19.7 (text 2 corrected). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 19.7 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. On the agenda, Mr G19.100, Senator Zeller asked the Government to reconsider its opinion. Does the government intend to do that?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u324	We could accept this agenda by including the words "engaged" by the Government to consider the possibility of predicting "instead of the words "committed" by the Government to predict "indeed."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u325	Senator Zeller, do you accept the proposed reformulation? ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G19.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would remind you that all the amendments tabled to Article 20 of the Decree-Law have been withdrawn, with the exception of Amendment 20.10, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u326	I am in favour of this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u327	Madam President, the opinion is in line with that of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u328	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 20.10 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I would remind you that all the amendments tabled to Articles 21 and 22 of the Decree-Law have been withdrawn, with the exception of Amendment 22,200, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u329	I am against it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u330	The opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u331	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 22,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u332	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u333	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u334	BATTIST (M5S). Madam President, as I have already said in the context of the amendment, it is not a question of whether or not there is a cover, but of whether or not the IMU tax can be applied on warehouses and port activities on state-owned land. As I have already mentioned, the Ministry of Finance has already said that this tax should not apply. Someone has to explain to me why the Ministry of Finance says one thing and then we do another.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u335	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u336	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u337	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u338	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 22,200 tabled by Senator Battista. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I would remind you that all the amendments tabled to Articles 23, 24 and 25 of the Decree-Law have been withdrawn, with the exception of amendments 25,200 and 25,16 (correct text) and of the agendas referred to Article 25 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u339	I am against Amendment No 25,200, while the opinion supports Amendment No 25.16 (correct text). I also express a favourable opinion on the G25.100 agenda, but with the invitation to reformulate it by replacing the words "the Government" to consider whether to consider "in place of words": "it invites the Government to consider "in place of words." I am in favour of the G25.101 agenda, but with the call for similar rewording. I am opposed to the G25.102 agenda. On the agenda, Mr G25.103, I would propose that the Government accept this as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u340	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion on both the amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u341	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 25,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas relating to this article. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 25,200 tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 25.16 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 25.16 (correct text) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Senator Malan, do you accept the rewording of the G25.100 agenda? MALAN (PdL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G25.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Caleo, do you accept the rewording of your agenda? Mr Caleo (PD). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u342	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u343	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u344	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I rise to say that we are signing the G25.101 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u345	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u346	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u347	Barani (GAL). Madam President, we want to sign this agenda that we would like to be voted on to strengthen it. This is in fact a railway line which has been under construction since 1979. We therefore declare our vote in favour, with the rewording accepted by the presenter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the presenter whether he agrees to insist on the vote. Mr Caleo (PD). Yes, Madam President. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G25.101 (text 2), presented by Senator Caleo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the agenda for Mr G25.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u348	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u349	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u350	SCAVONE (GAL). Madam President, we are impressed by the negative opinion expressed by the Government on an agenda, which is simply an act of direction towards the Commission, which calls for the recognition of territorial continuity for Sicily, pursuant to Article 16 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No 1008 of 2008. The Government, in fact, can impose public service obligations if the routes are considered essential for the economic development of the airports in question. In this case we ask for fundamental connections between the airports of Palermo and Catania with Rome, Milan, Naples and Venice. It is in fact necessary to achieve a balance, which the Government will have to assess, between the burden expected from the companies and the requirements in the matter of economic development of the Regions if the rates applied are excessive. The Sicilian parliamentarians, in particular the Catalans who use the airport of Fontanarossa, know well how expensive the tariff applied today by Alitalia has become: we are around 400-500 euros that, in fact, make it impossible to move those, unlike us, cannot enjoy the government ticket. This, among other things, is a situation that has worsened in relation to the very well-known story of operators - the famous Wind Jet affair - who applied much lower tariffs, equal to a fifth of that applied today by Alitalia. Probably the flagship company itself is not alien to the responsibility for what has happened. Therefore, I do not understand precisely why the Government denies the possibility of applying a regulation, already used for other regions of our country, for many ports of call that have our different territorial difficulties. I would like to remind you, among other things, that from our Sicily we are not able to reach, within the three hours provided as a limit by the regulation, the fundamental sites of our own country. I would also point out that the Ferrovie dello Stato no longer crosses the Strait of Messina and that passengers are therefore forced to get off the train with the suitcase, take the ferry and then board the train again at the stations of Reggio Calabria or Messina. I therefore call on the Government to reconsider its opinion on the agenda presented. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u351	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u352	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u353	DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development. Madam President, the point is that the agenda before us involves, through the application of the EC Regulation, the imposition of public service obligations and, therefore, a possible burden on public finances. We can then accept the agenda if the initial part of the device is reworded as follows: • commit the Government to assess, while respecting the compatibility of public finance, the opportunity to implement • • and then continue in the current text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scavone, I'm asking you if you accept the rewording suggested by the government representative.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u354	I thank you for your willingness to accept this agenda. However, I would also like to see the consideration of the balance between the expected burden and the development needs of the territory concerned included in the reformulation, as provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 16 of the Regulation in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u355	I ask the government to comment on Senator Scavone's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u356	This observation can be included in the premises.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u357	Senator Scavone, do you accept the government's further reformulation? SCAVONE (GAL). I'm forced to welcome her.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u358	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u359	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u360	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I would like to put my signature, if possible, on this agenda and reiterate its content. Actually our island - it is not whining, but a really bitter photograph of a reality that deserves attention - unfortunately lives a situation that, if I call it Bourbon, I am generous. I would point out that, in order to go by train from Rome to Milan, it takes two hours and fifty-five minutes; instead to go to Rome from Scicli, the city in which I live, in the province of Ragusa, starting at 21.45 you arrive - I wanted to try it once - the next day, at 9.45. So, you take the plane or you take the plane if you have to travel for study reasons, to cure yourself or to work. Is it possible that Sicily should be Z-series territory and territorial continuity cannot be predicted? (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot work with this buzz. Please be quiet. PADUA (PD). I take advantage of the sensitivity of my fellow senators to point out that about twenty days ago I presented a bill that provides territorial continuity also for Sicily and other islands (such as, for example, the island of Elba), as planned for Sardinia and other islands. I believe that our Constitution considers all citizens with the same rights. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u361	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u362	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u363	ORRU' (PD). Madam President, I would like to say to Mr Scavone that I am prepared to sign his agenda if we also add the Trapani-Birgi airport, which has certainly been forgotten because it is an airport in Sicily just like those of Palermo and Comiso. [[Senator D'Alì's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u364	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u365	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u366	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to add my signature to the agenda for G25.102 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u367	Okay. The addition of the signature, however, must be communicated to the Presidency in order to simplify the procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u368	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u369	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u370	D'ALI' (PdL). Madam President, until now I have abstained from intervening, although I know very well the dynamics of these events, not so much to contradict my colleagues, but above all not to take precious time away from the debate on this measure. However, I must point out to Senator Orrù, who preceded me, that more than ten years ago we have already experienced social traits and have abandoned them, preferring free competition to them. Today from a Sicilian airport like that of Trapani-Birgi you arrive in Rome with 50 euros, because we have made a policy of promotion of our different airports. I call on my fellow Members to urge the Government to remove the monopoly and not to use the Community regulation, which is a monopolist. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] I repeat that we have already had this experience ten years ago and we have passed it. Today we fly with 50 euros: fellow senators traveling from Rome know the situation well. The social trait casts the airport because it provides for a Community competition that gives the exclusive on the social trait and asks the government to compensate the exorbitant rates with a public intervention. In my opinion, the Government then has a duty to study the problem of air fares from Sicily to other national destinations, but without imposing any further pressure on the market and without imposing public service obligations. Moreover, this cannot be foreseen directly, because it must be requested of the European Union; the procedure is not to implement the public service burden, but to demand the public service burden. Then the European Union could also grant it, but with great damage to free competition on the routes to and from Sicily. The government, on the other hand, must intervene to avoid monopoly. In fact, it is scandalous the monopoly or cartel among a few companies mainly on the routes from Palermo or Catania to northern Italy and other destinations, which for years have tartaxano the Sicilian citizen in its mobility needs, another aspect to be faced with immediacy and with other solutions. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u371	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u372	You have the right to do so. But please be brief.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u373	ORRU' (PD). I am really glad that Senator D'Alì is finally interested in this airport, but I would like to remind you that other social traits are the territorial continuity. I'm gonna stop right here. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u374	The presenters therefore welcome the rewording proposed by the representative of the Government. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G25.102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. So let us turn to agenda G25.103, which the Government is willing to accept as a recommendation. Senator Mario Ferrara, do you insist on voting? FERRARA Mario (GAL). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G25.103 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We move on to Amendment 25.0.1 (text 2), on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u375	Madam President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u376	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u377	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 25.0.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u378	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u379	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u380	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 25.0.1 (text 2) wants to bring the Transport Authority, of which we have recently identified the figures (with the vote against the 5 Star Movement) to Turin. It is also said that the headquarters will be in a public property, where suitable and available. First of all, we do not understand the location in case this property is not identified. We voted against it in the Commission and we will vote against it now in this House. We ask all colleagues whether they think it is logical to bring this Authority to Turin when all the others are based in Rome. We therefore believe that it is illogical and we shall vote against it. [[Comments of the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u381	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u382	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u383	RANUCCI (PD). Madam President, on this amendment I would ask the Government to reflect. The problem is not of Rome or Turin, but of costs. I wonder if placing such an important Authority away from the decision-making centers, from the Railways, from the Ministry of Transport (not only, ANAS personnel has already been transferred to the Ministry of Transport with a precise indication of how to merge into the Authority) is a way to ensure that this country has savings. I'm asking the government to reconsider. My vote will therefore be abstaining, in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u384	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u385	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u386	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I have already made critical remarks in the general debate, so I will not take any more time. As Senator Cioffi recalled, only a few days ago the Authority was established and we already prepare a cast that begins to make difficult the exercise of a complex activity, because such will be the one entrusted to it. I say that a rebalancing of transport policies that see a very strong curvature on the High Speed, maintained by Ferrovie: there is no need to bring this Authority together exactly where the heart of the High Speed is, which I think is already well represented. The tragedy that we have is that of the transport on iron, and not only of passengers and people on the Italian and European territory, but above all of the local transport. I believe that the Authority has great authority in this matter and we also need a balance from the point of view of logistics. So let's not make a Romanocentric discourse: let's see if with time there can be solutions on the national territory, provided they are homogeneous and can also allow the subjects with whom the Authority will have to be connected to easily reach the structure. This, also for a reason of savings. That of saving is a mantra: I do not believe that for an activity of this type any Group and no senator can decide in such an unbalanced way from the point of view of the center of gravity of the country. We call for a pause, if we are to be very brief, for this type of activity to be considered: I do not think that Parliament has any urgency from this point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u387	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u388	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u389	ROMANI Paolo (PdL). Madam President, I would like to say that I have never been a fan of the Authorities, in the sense that I often have the impression that the regulatory processes have been confused with the processes of industrial strategy, the first ones of absolute competence of the Authorities, the second ones of absolute relevance to the governing bodies. In this connection, I recall a debate which, in 1997 (unfortunately, I have to remember, I was already in Parliament), concerned the seat of the Authority for Guarantees in Communications. Even then it was decided to move that Authority to Naples, so there is a formal and official seat in Naples; fact there is a substantial seat in Rome. I understand that on the part of the Piedmontese senators and MPs we can ask that there be an authority in Piedmont, as there is one in Naples and others in different areas of Italy, but to move the Transport Authority, which still has all the competences to define, from the Roman headquarters it seems to me that it is first of all a waste of resources and risks of being also a waste of competences. So, as far as I am concerned, I am in line with Mr Ranucci's reasoning and I am voting against it. When we talk about spending reviews, about processes of order, when we talk about processes that must oversee a policy that has common sense, sense of the institutions and of what they are and must be the strategies of the country, establishing an authority that could become important in Turin, in a decentralized center compared to the Roman one (I say it as a man of the North) it seems to me it could present problems later. I say this knowing that some of my group's colleagues have signed this amendment and have legitimately fought for it, along with colleagues from the other party that governs the government. I think, however, that on this point, we either get settled (since we are talking about the Authority) or we risk making yet another mess.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u390	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u391	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u392	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would just like to make one comment: if we think in our country of reducing costs, particularly with regard to infrastructure and the transport system, simply by debating one seat, I probably live on another planet. I believe that the problem of the waste of money is absolutely not focused in this way and that there is really something else behind it: someone is not digesting the fact that this Authority can go to Turin. I am quite embarrassed when I see that the members of the Democratic Party and of the People of Liberty did not get scandalized when it turned around and then, probably with a whisper of modesty, an amendment was withdrawn by the Government in which it was very serenely asked to give responsibilities to guy, with name and surname, regarding the issue of Railways. Let me explain better: someone thought that the Authority might not be operational immediately and therefore that the fees for the use of the railway were entrusted to the manager, with names and surnames. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, when I hear these things I am very embarrassed and when I hear a dear friend, who was also Minister and is Lombard, to say that the spending review and savings, which is sacrosanct to do in our country, are attributable only to one seat, I think that maybe then we did not understand well. The transport system, the infrastructure system needs another programming, and it is certainly not the demand for a seat, which becomes strategic for our country by virtue of the various corridors that we must realize. Well, I'm pretty embarrassed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fissore.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u393	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u394	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u395	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I declare our vote against Amendment 25.0.1 (text 2). At this point, we could make a traveling authority, so everyone is happy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u396	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u397	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u398	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we are asking for a roll-call vote, by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u399	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 25.0.1 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Lepri]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. The amendments to Articles 26 and 26-a of the Decree-Law have all been withdrawn. I therefore invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agendas referred to in Article 26-a of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u400	Madam President, I am against the G26-a.100, G26-a.101 and G26-a.102 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u401	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u402	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G26- bis.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u403	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u404	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u405	FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure on all agendas submitted to Article 26-a of the Decree-Law, as well as on amendments to add additional articles after Article 26-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u406	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G26- bis.100, presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G26- bis.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u407	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u408	I warn you, Senator, that according to the quota of the times, the Lega Nord Group still has one minute available. As you know, we must be quite strict today, given the scale of the speeches. If you wish to intervene, you still have the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u409	Thank you, Madam President. I turn once again to the Undersecretary because we believe that the agenda G26- bis.101 is truly in favour of the country: it refers in fact to the territoriality criterion applied to the objective of zero kilometre contracts. We don't feel like we're asking for the moon from this point of view. Therefore, I would like to stress this point and leave it to the acts that the Government is against zero kilometre contracts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u410	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G26- bis.101, presented by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G26-a.102 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, on the agenda G26- bis.102, presented by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 26-a of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u411	Madam President, I am against Amendments 26-a.0.2 and 26-a.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u412	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u413	Amendments 26-a.0.1, 26-a.0.4, 26-a.0.6, 26-a.0.7 and 26-a.0.8 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u414	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u415	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u416	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I apologise if I interrupt you once in a while, but I ask you if you can take up the previous method: to examine five articles at a time and to report the amendments and the agendas withdrawn. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u417	All right, Senator, we will now conclude the examination of these amendments and then resume with the procedure followed first. SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26-a.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 26- bis.0.2 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26-a.0.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 26- bis.0.3 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendments 26-b.1, 26-b.4, 26-b.0.0.2, 27.1, 27.2, 27.0.1, 27.0.2, 28.1, 28.3, 28.6, 28.200, 28.7, 28.8, 28.201, 29.1, 29.0.3, 29- bis.1, 29- bis.2, 29- bis.4, 29- bis.5, 29- bis.7, 30.1, 30.200, 30.2 (text 2), 30.4, 30.5, 30.7, 30.201, 30.10, 30.202, 30.203, 30.204, 30.13, 30.15, 30.205, 30.16, 30.206, 30.17, 30.18, 30.20, 30.21, 30.207, 30.208, 30.22, 30.209, 30.23, 30.210, 30.211, 30.26, 30.212, 30.213, 30.28, 30.214, 30.32, 30.31, 30.315, 30.33, 30.34, 30.216, 30.210, 30.211, 30.26, 30.212, 30.213, 30.28, 30.214, 30.214, 30.32, 30.313, 30.313, 30.313, 30.313, 30.313, 30.31, 30.31, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 30.33, 26.33, 26.33, 26.33, 26.24, 26.24, 30.24, 30.24, 30.24, 30.24, 30.24, 30.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u418	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u419	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u420	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, it is clear that Amendment 30,208 has not been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u421	The Presidency takes note of this. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 26-b of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u422	I am in favour of Amendment 26-b.2 (text 2) and against Amendment 26-b.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u423	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u424	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26-b.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u425	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u426	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u427	FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 26-b of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u428	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 26-b.2 (text 2), tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26. b. 0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 26. b. 0.1, presented by Senators Gaetti and Panizza. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. The amendments to Article 27 of the Decree-Law have all been withdrawn. Let us turn to the amendments relating to the articles of the decree-law from 28 to 42-b which I invite the presenters to explain, in accordance with the residual times of the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u429	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 30,208. I wanted to point out to the House how much simplification in urban matters is a risk for our country and to get to the silence-consensus for building concessions is a false step, a very difficult step to take, in the sense that we are going towards an abyss. The fifties and sixties, which destroyed our beautiful country, will be nothing in front of a building concession with silence-consent. I am really trying to urge you to listen to me: what will happen to a public administration with silence-consent? He will feel deprived of all responsibility and will always be able, for situations of ambiguity, not to take responsibility. I ask you, therefore, to ensure that silence-consent is avoided and that it is replaced, at the limit, by silence-refusal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u430	Senator Nugnes, you must conclude because you have one minute and the 5 Star Movement is already under 12 minutes of your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u431	NUGNES (M5S). All right, but I would really like to urge all of you not to leave this House with this weight on your shoulders. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've finished your time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u432	Madam President, I should like to briefly explain Amendment No 31.8. Since companies have to make the DURC which is worth 120 days for all phases, they ask to eliminate the final phase for the very simple reason that sometimes payments are made after years and then in the final phase they could change things. I therefore call for these words to be deleted from the article: "and the payment of the final balance".
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u433	Mr President, we have turned Amendment 32,202 into an agenda. It is a very linear measure, which makes a wide range of situations, people and interventions very simple; it is at zero cost and, therefore, of common sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u434	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u435	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u436	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, forgive me. You have said what amendments have been withdrawn until Rule 30. We have come to Rule 37 and, if it says the names of the presenters at this speed, we cannot (I don't know the others) understand what the amendments are to be made. I'm asking you out of kindness. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u437	We shall now proceed to the vote and then call back the illustrations. Let's do this a little bit at a time. We therefore turn to the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 28 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u438	The opinion was opposed to Amendments 28.2 and 28.4. I call for the G28.100 agenda to be withdrawn; alternatively, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u439	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur, both on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u440	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 28 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 28.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 28.4 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the agenda for Mr G28.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u441	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u442	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u443	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). I'd like to ask the government for a simple courtesy. With this agenda you want to make public employees responsible because you cannot ask that it be the municipality, that is the whole community, for a delay perhaps caused by a manager. With this order of business, we would like to ask that, in the light of the fact that the damage is done by an employee, the Court of Auditors should verify whether it is possible to charge him for the payment of compensation. I do not understand the Government's opinion to the contrary. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u444	Are you insisting on the vote? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Absolutely, because the government didn't listen to me. I would at least like to welcome the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u445	[[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u446	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G28.100 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G28.100 agenda presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We now turn to the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 29 and the amendments to Article 29-a of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u447	Madam President, I am against Amendment 28.0.2 and in favour of Amendments 29-a.2000 and 29-a.0.500.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u448	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u449	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.0.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 29.0.2, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29- bis.2000. SANTANGELO. We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 29-a of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 29- bis.2000, tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29-a.0.500. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 29-a.0.500 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 974
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u450	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u451	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u452	D'ALI' (PdL). Madam President, I would like to ask for the provision of the amendments to Article 30, in order to move directly to those relating to Article 31 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur agree with the provision? BERNINI, rapporteur. Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore have the provision of amendments to Article 30 of the Decree-Law which have not been withdrawn. I now recall the amendments and agendas withdrawn, referring to subsequent articles, as requested by the 5 Star Movement Group. Amendments 31.2, 31.4, 31.7, 31.8, 31.9, 31.12, 31.13 and agenda G31.100 have been withdrawn; Amendments 32,200, 32.2, 32.4, 32.5, 32.8, 32.9, 32.10, 32.11, 32.16, 32.17, 32.18, 32.22, 32.23, 32.28, 32.34, 32.36, 32.39, 32.208, 32.209, 32.210 and agenda G32.104; Amendments 33.1, 33.2, 33.5, 330.0.2, 33.0.3, 34.200, 35.1, 35.2, 35.3, 35.4, 35.5, 35.5, 35.6, 35.0.1 and 35.0.2. We shall therefore resume the examination of the amendments to Article 31 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u453	I am in favour of Amendment 31.1 (text 2) and the opinion is against Amendments 31.10 and 31.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u454	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u455	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 31.1 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 31. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 31.1 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 31.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 31.10 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 31.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 31.11 tabled by Senator Fravezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 32 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u456	Madam President, I am against Amendments 32.1, 32.24 (text 2), 32.25 (text 2), 32.37, 32.204, 32.205, 32.206 and 32.207. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendments 32.19, 32.30 (text 2 corrected) and 32.41. The opinion was also in favour of agendas G32,100, G32,101, G32,102 and G32,103. On Amendment 32.0.1, to insert an additional article after Article 32, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u457	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u458	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.1. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Rule 32. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 32.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 32.19 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.24 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 32.24 (text 2) tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendment 32.202 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G32.202. I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u459	I am in favour of this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u460	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u461	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G32.202 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.30 (text 2 corrected). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 32.30 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.25 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 32.25 (text 2) tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.37. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 32.37 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32,204. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 32,204, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.205. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 32.205, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32,206. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 32,206, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.41. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 32.41 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.207. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 32.207, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G32.100, G32.101 and G32.102 will not be put to the vote. Let us turn to agenda G32.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u462	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u463	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u464	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the G32.103 agenda refers to the first paragraph of Article 32 which extends the provisions of Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008 to all the associations mentioned in the article, such as social promotion associations, social promotion bodies and sports promotion bodies. The agenda in question calls on the Government to investigate this issue in order to exclude volunteers from amateur sports associations from the application of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008. I do not understand why, in addition to amateur sports associations, it is not possible to exclude social promotion associations, sports promotion agencies, civil service agencies and voluntary associations, as already provided for in the article. However, this would seem to me to be a complete revision of a matter relating to the third sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u465	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u466	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u467	GIANNI (SPI). Madam President, I rise to subscribe to the G32.103 agenda, just commented on by Senator Petraglia, highlighting the importance of the simplification required. I am also in favour of extending its content to all voluntary associations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u468	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Senator Petraglia's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u469	I am in favour of rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u470	I welcome the extension proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u471	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u472	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u473	MARIN (PdL). Colleagues, this agenda is very simple. Since we are all talking about simplification, it seems to us that it is up to amateur sports associations, as well as all voluntary associations (registered at the top of regional registers according to different sections), to go against what we always say: the need to simplify procedures. In this case we even talk only about volunteers. Since Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008 and the Act on Volunteering, in the interpretations of the Ministry of Labour, have created difficulties precisely for volunteers, accepting the common sense indications and the positive spirit expressed in the amendment proposed by Senator Petraglia, we specify that we have written this agenda referring to volunteers. Whether they belong to voluntary associations, sports promotion or social promotion organizations does not matter. We believe that those who take time away from their family and their work to donate it to others, volunteering in the most diverse associations (we mention amateur sports because the amendment of the Chamber, to Article 32, made explicit reference to these associations for which, together with Senators Carraro and Luciano Rossi, we have presented an agenda with reference to them, while extending the request to all voluntary associations), must, in our opinion, be absolutely grieved in terms of formal work obligations. The associations and their presidents, who in the vast majority of cases are themselves volunteers, must be freed from all bureaucracy. We therefore welcome Senator Petraglia's remark and call for the agenda to be voted on. We thank the rapporteur and the government for their favourable opinion, because we believe that at a time of difficulty people who volunteer in associations of any kind should be reported, and that is why we have addressed all the Groups, so that it is clear that they are people who deprive themselves of something to give it to others and that there can be no bureaucracy that punishes them and the associations they represent. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u474	I ask the government if it accepts this reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u475	Mr Baretta, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u476	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u477	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u478	GRANAIOLA (PD). Madam President, I rise to subscribe to the agenda and to ask for its vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u479	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u480	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u481	PEPE (M5S). Madam President, I would also like to put my signature on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u482	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u483	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u484	FUCKSIA (M5S). Madam President, I would also like to add my signature to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u485	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Granaiola, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G32.103 (text 2), presented by Senator Marin and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 32.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u486	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u487	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u488	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 32.0.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Barozzino, you must speak for an explanation of vote, because you have given up on this amendment. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). I have asked several times to speak in order to explain it, but you, President, have never looked to the left, on my side. I'll just ask you for a minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, this amendment calls for the presence of the doctor in the workplace, even during the night shift, which I assure you is the most stressful and tiring of all. The aim is to guarantee workers the necessary safety and serenity at work, trying to minimize any risks, which can sometimes turn into tragedies and which certainly the timeliness of a present medical aid can help to prevent. I would ask you to reflect on this and to bear in mind that in many industrial or working areas the number of workers working nights is very important and often many workers are of advanced age. The call therefore is to reflect, because a doctor at the workplace can really avoid dangers and even life risks. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u489	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u490	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u491	FUCKSIA (M5S). I would like to say that I voted against Amendment 32.0.1, because the competent doctor is not a medical guard, but he has a lot of other functions. I remember that large companies are provided inside an infirmary and include a fixed doctor. However, there are also small companies where the work doctor simply makes scheduled visits, on request visits and inspections in the work environment. That one has to check the place during the night time may be fine, but what is required is not part of the duties of the competent doctor. [[Applause from Senators Casini and Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u492	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u493	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u494	SANTANGELO (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u495	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 32.0.1, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 33 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u496	I am against Amendment 33.3 and I am in favour of Amendment 33.4. The opinion was also in favour of the G33.100 agenda and the G33.101 call for withdrawal: otherwise the opinion was against it. Finally, the opinion is opposed to amendment 33.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u497	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u498	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 33.3. FALANGA (PdL). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure of all the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 33 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 33.3 tabled by Senator Buemi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I call for the annulment of the vote because my closing statement has not been recorded. We shall therefore repeat the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 33.3 tabled by Senator Buemi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 33.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 33.4 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We move on to agenda G33.100, on which I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u499	Madam President, on the agenda, Mr G33.100, it is proposed that the system be reworded by expressing the words 'also with respect to the different territorial realities'.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u500	Do the G33.100 agenda presenters accept the rewording proposed by the representative of the Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u501	No, Madam President, we insist on voting on the agenda. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u502	I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G33.100 agenda presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. On the agenda, Mr G33.101, a request was made for withdrawal. I ask the presenters if they agree to withdraw it. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). No, Madam President, and we insist on the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G33.101, presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 33.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 33.0.1, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 35 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u503	Madam President, I am against Amendments 35,200 and 35,7, while the opinion is in favour of Amendment 35,8 (text 2 corrected). On the agenda, Mr G35.100, I voted in favour, with a proposal for a rewording that will explain the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u504	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion. As regards the agenda G35.100, we propose to replace the words 'to provide' in the device with the following: 'to assess the possibility of 'to'.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u505	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 35.200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure of all amendments to Article 35 of the Decree-Law. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 35.200 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 35.8 (text 2 corrected). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 35.8 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Senator Comaroli, on the G35.100 agenda, a rewording was requested. Do you welcome her? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G35.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Since amendments 362 and 36.3 have been withdrawn, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda referred to in Article 36 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u506	Mr President, on the agendas for G36.100 and G36.101, I would like to express my support if it is reworded with the inclusion of words in the system: 'considering the appropriateness of 'I'.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u507	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u508	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u509	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u510	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to give you information on the method we have used this evening to proceed more quickly: the amendments withdrawn for several articles are indicated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, thank you for the information, but the offices had already informed me. Senator Albano, do you accept the proposed rewording of the agenda G36.100? Mr Albano (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u511	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G36.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Crosio, do you accept the proposed rewording of the agenda G36.101?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u512	Yes, Mr. President. In order to strengthen this agenda, I would ask you to vote on it and ask for the vote to take place with the electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u513	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Crosio, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G36.101 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. All amendments relating to Articles 37, 38 and 39 of the Decree-Law have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G37.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u514	My opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u515	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u516	Having been accepted by the Government, the G37.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G39.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u517	My opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u518	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u519	Having been accepted by the Government, the G39.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. As amendments 40.1, 40.2 and 40.0.2 and the G40.100 agenda have been withdrawn, I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendments to Article 40 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u520	My opinion is in favour of amendment 40.3 and against amendment 40.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u521	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u522	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 40.3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 40.3 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 40.0.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 40.0.1, tabled by Senators Nencini and Fausto Guilherme Longo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 41 of the Decree-Law, bearing in mind that amendments 41,200, 41,3, 41,4, 41,5, 41,201, 41,202, 41,203, 41,204, 41.14, 41,205, 41,17, 41,18, 41.19, 41,20, 41,21, 41,207, 41,22, 41,23, 41,208, 41,209, 41,210, 41,211, 41,28, 41,29, 41.32, 41,33, 41,34 and 41,212 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u523	Mr President, first of all I am against Amendment 41.1 (text 2)/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u524	My opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u525	I also object to Amendments 41.6, 41.7, 41.8, 41.9, 41.206, 41.16, 41.26 and 41.27. The opinion is, of course, in favour of Amendments 41.1 (text 2) and 41.25. I also call for the G41.100 agenda to be withdrawn because there is a knowledge-based investigation in this area; otherwise, the opinion is against it. I then give a favourable opinion on agendas G41.101, G41.102, G41.103 and G41.105 if amended by a rewording of the text that I would entrust to the representative of the Government. The opinion was then in favour of the G41.104 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u526	On the amendments and on the agenda G41.104 the opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur. With regard to the rewording of agendas, in the G41.101 agenda, the words "to be adopted" should be replaced with the other "to be considered" to be adopted. As regards the agenda G41.102, the words "to prepare" should be replaced by the other "to evaluate" in the device. With regard to the agenda G41.103, the words "to adopt" should be replaced with the other "to decide to adopt" should be replaced. As regards the agenda G41.105, the words "to assume" should be replaced with the other "to evaluate" words.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u527	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.1 (text 2/1).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u528	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u529	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u530	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 41 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u531	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 41.1 (text 2/1), tabled by Senator Sonego. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.1 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 41.1 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u532	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u533	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u534	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, by adopting Amendment No 41.6 we have a real opportunity to limit the profit margins resulting from prospecting activities, an opportunity to make the good intentions expressed on several occasions by many of us. Since a number of draft laws have been presented on this issue, in addition to the Senate Act No. 451 at my signature, I call for the unanimous approval of Parliament. Those who do not vote on this amendment today will be responsible for the ruin of our coasts and will have to assume their responsibility in front of the country. [[Comments from PD and PdL Groups. Applause from the M5S Group]] I call for a split vote. The first part concerns paragraph 2-a, the second part 2-b.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u535	We shall then proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 41.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 41.6 tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators, up to and including point (b). I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the second part of Amendment 41.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the second part of Amendment 41.6 tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators, from the words "2-2b" to the end. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 41.7 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 41.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u536	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u537	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u538	GIANNI (SPI). I support Amendment 41.8 and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u539	I take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 41.9 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.206.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u540	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u541	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u542	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, with amendment 41,206 we are going to change the single text of the decree of the President of the Republic No 380 of 2001 excluding from the building concession those houses that are part of the camping facilities and tourist villages. As is the text, it will be enough to demonstrate that they have temporary use: therefore, even houses anchored to the ground could be built without building permission. I wonder, then, why the rapporteur is against amending this article, what interest there is, since it will only create problems on our coasts since the campsites are located in the most interesting areas of the territory from an environmental point of view, close to the sea. Without a building concession there will be a... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group: Nominal vote by simultaneous vote]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u543	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 41.206, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 41.16 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.25. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 41.25 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.26. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 41.26 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 41.27, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. On the agenda G41.100 there is an invitation to withdraw: do you accept it, Senator Di Biagio?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u544	Mr President, I welcome the call for the withdrawal of the G41.100 agenda formulated by the rapporteurs and the Government, recognising the government's commitment through the survey. However, the determination to hinder any hypothesis of environmental disaster in the Adriatic Sea through unnecessary drilling remains high. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u545	On the agenda G41.101 there is a proposal for reformulation: does she accept it, Senator Pignedoli?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u546	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u547	As the G41.101 (text 2) agenda has been accepted by the Government, it will not be put to the vote. On the agenda G41.102 is there a proposal for reformulation by the Government, do you accept Senator Bitonci? BITONCI (LN-Aut). I'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G41.102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. As the G41.104 agenda has been accepted by the Government, it will not be put to the vote. On the agenda G41.103 is there a proposal for reformulation by the Government, do you accept Senator Arrigoni? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G41.103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. On the agenda G41.105 there is a proposal for reformulation by the Government; do you accept it, Senator Bitonci? BITONCI (LN-Aut). I accept that, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G41.105 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to Articles 41-a and 41-b of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to take a decision, bearing in mind that amendments 41-a. 1, 41-a. 200, 41-a. 4, 41-b.1, 41-b. 200, 41-b. 0.1 and 41-b.0.3 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u548	I am against Amendment 41-a. 201 and a favourable opinion on Amendments 41-a. 5 and 41-b.0.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u549	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u550	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41-a.201. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Rule 41-a and 41-b. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 41- bis.201, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41- bis.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 41-a.5, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 974
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u551	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41-b.0.2 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 41-b.0.2 (text 2) tabled by the Commissions meeting. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 974
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u552	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u553	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u554	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, at this time, after ten hours of work in this House, the colleague who sits in the neighboring scranno has come down lower and asked me to vote on the amendment. I admit that I have done so, and if you, Senator Endrizzi, believe that this is a regrettable fact, do not confine yourself to accusing me in that way: ask the President for the constitution, under the Rules of Procedure, of a Commission which will punish me if I am responsible. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u555	Colleagues, we're tired.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u556	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u557	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u558	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, if we are here, it is because we have today accepted the Government's invitation to the Conference of Leaders. We in the opposition have accepted - and, on our behalf, we will no longer do so - an invitation to reasonableness in exchange for the same reasonableness on the part of the Commission. This reasonableness, as a colleague of the League pointed out a few hours ago, as evidenced by the behaviour of the Government has evidently deviated from the intentions that had been expressed to us. But if we are here, we are here to do our duty, and our duty is - I remind Mr Falanga - to respect the rules. Then we can also change them, but always in compliance with the rules. If the rule is that I vote for myself and not for others, even if we are tired and physically at two meters, we must respect them. Rightly, all colleagues are given time to return to take part in voting operations. Then I wonder: if this is the music, what are we doing here? Music must be the same for everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u559	Let us proceed with the votes. We have taken note of what has happened. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 42 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u560	I am against Amendment 42.1 and I am in favour of Amendments 42.2 (text 2 corrected) and 42.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u561	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u562	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 42.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 42 of the Decree-Law, as well as on Amendment 42.0.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 42.1, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 42.2 (text 2 corrected). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 42.2 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 42.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 42.0.1, tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Since amendment 42-a.2 has been withdrawn, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment to Article 42-a of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u563	Mr President, I am against Amendment 42-a.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u564	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u565	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 42-a.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 42- bis.1, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of an amendment and of the agendas referred to in Article 42-b of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u566	I am against amendment 42-b.1 and I am in favour of the G42-b.100 agenda, when reworded with the replacement in the second part of the word "support" with the following "considering the possibility of supporting it."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u567	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u568	Senator Scilipoti, do you accept the reformulation? SCILIPOTI (PdL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G42-b.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 42-b.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 42-b.1, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. The G42-b.101 agenda and Amendments 42-b.0.1 and 42-b.0.2 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u569	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u570	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u571	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to invite you and the entire House to consider this matter. Last night we concluded the Commission's work at 11.45 p.m., with some difficulty in finding something to eat. Since it is 9 p.m., and since it is also scheduled for the end of the sitting, I call on the House to consider whether it is not appropriate to suspend work and resume the examination of the measure in the morning. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u572	We also hear the opinions of the other groups and then we decide.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u573	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u574	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u575	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we are all aware of the tiredness of our fellow Members who have spent the night in the sitting of the Commissions meeting 1a and 5a, but we are also aware that we must arrive at the adoption of this measure, so that we can deliver it to the House in time for conversion. Our proposal is therefore to continue working for another hour, until 10 p.m. and then suspend work. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI and Senator De Pin groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u576	Are there any other comments, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u577	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u578	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u579	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, for what it's worth, I just wanted to personally represent my support for Senator Calderoli's proposal. I would point out, among other things, that a night sitting was also held in the Justice Committee yesterday and that another night sitting of the same Commission is being convened this evening in relation to the measure on political-mafia electoral exchange, approved by the House of Deputies. Mr President, you will therefore understand the need for this night to not start at an hour too late, and then end at dawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u580	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u581	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u582	EXPOSED Joseph (PdL). Mr President, in view of the work we have to do, we are in favour of continuing for another hour and then suspending the examination of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u583	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u584	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u585	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, we are of the opinion that we should at least continue for another hour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, in view of the position expressed by the various groups, we are therefore continuing our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u586	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u587	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u588	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am sorry, but just now you referred to the withdrawal of the G42-b.101, which I tabled after withdrawing a previous amendment. In fact, this agenda, which was approved in the Commission, has not been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u589	It is withdrawn from us; in any case, we can examine it. I call on the rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u590	Mr President, I believe that having been approved in the Commission, the agenda is already sufficient for itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u591	Having already been accepted by the Government, the agenda G42-b.101 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u592	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u593	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u594	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to associate the position of the 5 Star Movement with that of the League Group and recall that we have shown sensitivity and reasonableness. If we are at this point it is the fault of those who lead to urgent decrees the government of the country forcing us... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . . not to follow the work to the best, but to follow it to the worst, because, as other colleagues of the same majority have mentioned, in order to be able to enter into the substance of the arguments and measures it is necessary at least to read and study them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u595	However, the opinions I have gathered are mainly in the sense of continuing.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u596	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G42-b agenda. 100a.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u597	I am in favour of this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u598	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u599	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G42-b. 100a will not be put to the vote. Amendments 42-b.0.1a and 43.4 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 44 of the Decree-Law, bearing in mind that amendments 44.3, 44.6, 44.7 and 44.12 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u600	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 44.9 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u601	The opinion is in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u602	I would remind you that Amendment No 44.10 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda. [[Comments of Senator Bianconi]] No? I have this note. An agenda appears to have been deposited.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u603	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u604	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u605	Bianconi (GAL). Mr President, we have accepted the proposal to turn it into an agenda, but I think exactly like Senator Casini: the agendas are also valid for them. I say, therefore, to the Government that on this subject, on which I hope the Government will give a favourable opinion, I will return to office together with all my colleagues because we try to heal a vulnus that has been created with the provision of spending review of 2012. I try briefly to explain that. We're talking orphan drugs. We ask that, as with innovative medicines, orphan hospitals when they pass should not pay back and should not pay them back. As you know, the state in dealing with pharmaceutical companies sets a budget and when companies break out they know they have to pay back. We demand that small companies investing in those neglict orphan drugs may not participate in the overflow shelf. We are talking about 79 drugs that, in 85% of cases, have a single indication of rare disease. Two million people with rare diseases for 7,000 to 8,000 diseases. So, let's talk about tiny numbers. You will understand well that by asking those companies that are investing in research and in the treatment of these rare diseases we blow up the company and no longer give treatment to these patients. We had already foreseen this in the spending review law for innovative orphan drugs. We also call for it to be extended to all other orphan drugs intended to treat rare diseases. Take into account - and I conclude - that for the state it is not a cost, because the shelf of the out-of-budget is borne by all the other pharmaceutical companies. That was the deal at the time. We ask that it be extended - I repeat - for 79 medicines. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u606	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u607	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u608	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Mr President, I would like to ask the Government to assume responsibility for following the declarations solemnly presented in the parliamentary classrooms on the occasion of the start of this Government. Mr President, that is the point. It is customary to say that an agenda is not denied to anyone. No, that's not right. I call on the Government, from Mr De Vincenti to Mr Giorgetti and Mr De Camillis, to make a serious commitment on this agenda so that it is not diluted in a simple recommendation but in a commitment following what has already been supported in this House by the President of the Council as well as by the Minister of Health; therefore, an assumption of responsibility and a commitment to provide within a reasonable time. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u609	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u610	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u611	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, begging you, given the timing and the fact that we agreed to do the night, today to introduce some elements of expedition. During the presidency of Vice-President Lanzillotta - of course I do not want to teach her how to preside - it was in some way agreed to read the deleted amendments to deal with only those that remained. This speeded up the work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Susta, we're still under illustration. Sunta (SPI). I know, but if we put together five or six articles, we could do it first.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u612	Thank you, Senator Susta, we have already taken some time for your intervention. I would once again urge the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 44 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u613	I am in favour of Amendment No 44.9 (text 3). The opinion was also in favour of the G44.10 agenda by Senator Bianconi. With regard to the agenda, Mr G44.100, the opinion was in favour of some rewording. The same applies to agendas G44.101, G44.102, G44.103, G44.104, G44.105 and G44.106.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u614	I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. As far as agendas are concerned, the Government welcomes the G44.100. On the other hand, Senator Marinello's agenda G44.101 is accepted where reworded in the device: "it commits the Government to assess the possibility that, limited to operators the health professions". The agenda was adopted. The G44.103 agenda shall be accepted when reworded in the operative part with the formula: "Recommend the Government to evaluate the repeal of letter (b) ". On agendas G44.104, G44.105 and G44.106 call for the following rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u615	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 44.9 (text 3). SANTANGELO (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 44.9 (text 3), tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G44.10 and G44.100 will not be put to the vote. Senator Marinello, regarding the agenda G44.101, I ask you if you accept the rewording proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u616	Mr President, I am making a cumulative speech on the agendas that I have presented and on which the Government has proposed a rewording. With regard to the agenda G44.101, I welcome the proposed reformulation, also because the Government, by accepting the agenda G44.102, in fact and unconditionally includes the previous one. I also welcome the rewordings made on the agendas for G44.103, G44.104 and G44.105. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G44.106, I would like to invite the Government, particularly in the person of Mr De Vincenti, to make a stronger commitment and I would therefore ask him to make a statement to this effect, partly because this is an issue which he knows very well. This is an agenda which tends to remedy something that had to be done previously in other measures. I therefore urge him to make the Government's commitment more explicit. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u617	I ask the government whether or not it accepts the request made by Senator Marinello.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u618	I simply accept the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u619	Having been accepted by the Government, agendas G44.101 (text 2), G44.102, G44.103 (text 2), G44.104 (text 2), G44.105 and G44.106 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 44.0.1 has been withdrawn. Since amendments 45.1, 45.2, 45.3 and 45.4 have also been withdrawn, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda referred to in Article 45 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u620	I am in favour of the G45.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u621	The Government accepts the agenda G45.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u622	Having been accepted by the Government, the G45.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendments 45.0.2 and 45.0.3 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 46 of the Decree-Law, bearing in mind that amendment 46.1 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u623	I am opposed to Amendment 46.2 and to the G46.100 and G46.101 agendas where they are reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u624	The Government's opinion is opposed to amendment 46.2 and in favour of both agendas, but with a rewording that consists, for the agenda G46.100, in the adoption of the formula "to assess the appropriateness of providing for "and for the agenda G46.101" in the adoption of the formula "to consider whether to allocate "."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u625	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 46.2. FALANGA (PdL). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 46.2 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I would ask the presenters whether they accept the rewording proposed by the representative of the Government of the agenda G46.100. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G46.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would ask the presenters whether they accept the rewording proposed by the representative of the Government of the agenda G46.101. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G46.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Since amendment 46-a.0.1 has been withdrawn, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment to insert an additional article after Article 46-a of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u626	Mr President, I welcome Amendment 46-a.0.10000.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u627	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u628	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 46-a.0.10000. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 46-a.0.10000, tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Amendment 47-a.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 48 of the Decree-Law. I call on the authors to explain, bearing in mind that Amendments 48.1 and 48.2 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u629	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u630	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u631	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, there was a mistake because it was not our intention to withdraw amendment 48.1 of which I am the first signatory. I therefore call for a vote to be taken. I would also ask you to be able to explain this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Cotti (M5S). Article 48, of which we ask for the abolition, allows the Ministry of Defence to carry out an activity of promotion of the sale of our weapons abroad. As you know, although there is a ban on selling arms to conflicting countries, triangulations are very likely to take place that allow weapons to even reach conflicting countries. This was also witnessed by Minister Kyenge who, at a conference held in the House of Deputies in early April last year, said that Italian weapons are probably still being used in the Congo war. I believe, therefore, that promoting the sale of arms by a state means being an accomplice to people who kill each other. I believe that this is a very serious matter and that it is therefore important to delete this article completely. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u632	Mr President, Amendment No 48,200 is intended, however, to be without prejudice to the principle of contractual facilitation by the Italian Government. I would point out that this amending proposal had to have a text 2. We have made it clear that we absolutely exclude the facilitation of the production and sale of arms. In addition, we intend to involve the competent Ministry of Economic Development in the commercial promotion operation, as it is done and is still in force for the F-35 which finds so many approvals in this majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u633	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u634	I am against Amendments 48.1 and 48.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u635	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u636	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 48.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Rule 48. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 48.1, tabled by Senator Cotti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 974
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u637	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u638	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u639	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, amendment 48.1 was to be voted on together with amendment 48.2 of identical content. I pointed out that a mistake had been made in this case too because Amendment 48.2 had not been withdrawn, while a precedent I had withdrawn was put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u640	Let us consider that they were voted together. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u641	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u642	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u643	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Excuse me, Mr President, but I would just like some information, because I may have distracted myself. I would like to know whether Amendment 46-a.0.10000 has been voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u644	Yes, and it was approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 48.200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 48.200 tabled by Senator Battista and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Since amendment 49.8 has been withdrawn, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment to Article 49 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u645	Mr President, I am naturally in favour of Amendment No 49.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u646	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u647	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 49.7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 49.7 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 49-a of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion, bearing in mind that amendments 49-a.1 and 49-a.4 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u648	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 49-a.2. I am against Amendment 49-a.3. I call for the withdrawal of the G49-a.100 agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u649	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u650	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 49-a.2. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 49- bis of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 49- bis.2 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 49-a.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 49- bis.3 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. I would ask those present whether they accept the call for the withdrawal of the G49- bis.100 agenda. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). No, Mr. President. I'm asking you to come. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda 49-a.100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G49- bis.100, presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 974 PRESIDENT. Since amendment 49-c.0.1 has been withdrawn, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda referred to in Article 49-c of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u651	Mr President, I am in favour of the G49-c.100 and G49-c.101 agendas. Invitation to withdraw the agenda G49-c.102, otherwise the opinion would be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u652	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u653	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G49-c.100 and G49-c.101 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u654	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u655	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u656	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G49-c.102, there has been an oversight of us, so we wanted to replace the words 'for financial support for volunteering' with the following: 'for financial support for third sector associations'. Let me say to the first signatories of amendment G49-c.100, Senators Mattesini and Dirindin, that when we talk about voluntary associations we refer only to the associations provided for by Law No 266 of 11 August 1991. I believe that the signatories to this agenda, in fact, want to refer, with regard to a national fund for social policies, to the whole world of associations, so I wanted to invite them, if necessary, to a change in the sense of talking about associations in the third sector. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda, as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u657	Mr President, I would propose a rewording if it were appropriate for the proposers and the government to consider the possibility of setting up a fund for financial support for volunteering under the same conditions as the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u658	More than volunteering, associations in the third sector: this amendment has already been proposed. , rapporteur. That's okay with me.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u659	With this rewording, the agenda is accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u660	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u661	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u662	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I have nothing against the third sector, but in the third sector we have profit, non-profit, associations and systems that are different from volunteering: they are two different schemes. So, I think that in this case volunteering is the most penalized than the Red Cross. If we want to think about the third sector, the reasoning must be expanded: different sectors, different functions must be considered. So, without taking anything off, I think that a fund on the third sector, also from the fiscal point of view (I dare say), is slightly different from volunteering. I would like to stress this because it is right to give volunteering what is voluntary. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u663	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u664	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u665	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to declare my support for the reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u666	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u667	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u668	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, as the draftsman of the G49-c.100 agenda, I must point out that Senator De Biasi is absolutely right: we are talking clearly about volunteering. The third sector also includes social cooperatives, for example; here we make a specific reasoning which tends to offer equal opportunities to all other associations that have not had the answers at the moment, as well as the Red Cross, although we know that on the third sector as such this Government and this Parliament will have to have clear attention. However, I personally welcome the positive opinion of the Government and the rapporteur on the agenda as presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u669	You are talking about the agenda G49-c.100. MATTESINI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has already been accepted by the Government in its original wording. Now the problem is on the agenda G49-c.102, with the two rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u670	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u671	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u672	DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development. Mr President, saying that the government accepted the reformulation, I wanted to refer to the rewording proposed by the rapporteur, Mrs Bernini, in which the term "voluntary" remained: I wanted to specify this. To understand us, I read in these terms the plan of the agenda: "It commits the Government to assess the possibility of establishing a fund for financial support for volunteering, under the same conditions as the Red Cross." That is the text on which I voted in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Petraglia, the government representative reported the text of the agenda to the original wording. How do you express your views on this matter?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u673	Mr President, of course I cannot speak on the subject of the G49-c.100 agenda. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G49-c.102, we are for the amendment aimed at including the words 'the associations of the Third Sector'. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But the change was not accepted by the Government. At this point, do you insist on the vote? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Yes, of course I insist on voting, also because the associations in the Third Sector are voluntary associations and social promotion. Social cooperation is another thing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefano, how do you express your views on this agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u674	Mr President, I have accepted the rapporteur's rewording. FALANGA (PdL). I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u675	One moment, Senator, let's complete the examination of this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u676	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u677	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u678	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking because I do not want any ambiguity and it is said that we are opposed to funding for the Third Sector. The third sector includes associations that have other purposes and, therefore, in this case we favour a totally non-profit association such as voluntary work because we think that other methods of financing should be established for the third sector. The problem here is that the Red Cross has the possibility of obtaining funding, a loan that serves to compensate for the costs and carry out its activities, unlike other voluntary associations that have social purposes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This has already been clarified. DE BIASI (PD). So, as far as I am concerned, my vote is against if the wording of the text should be changed and the reference to the third sector deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u679	According to the Government's opinion, the formulation of the agenda has returned to the original one, i.e. the word "volunterated" is maintained and Senator Petraglia asks for the vote at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u680	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u681	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u682	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, I believe that we risk producing a misunderstanding of terminology. Senator Petraglia pointed out that on the agenda she intends to refer not only to voluntary associations but also to social promotion associations. If we were to use the expression 'Third sector' we would actually risk confusion because this definition is even wider. I would therefore ask Senator Petraglia to propose to the Government a third definition, i.e. voluntary and social promotion associations, in which the most profitable sector of the Third sector is kept out and, in my opinion, the definition is correctly extended in the sense proposed by my colleague Petraglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u683	A new wording has been proposed at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u684	I'm asking to talk. [[Senator Falanga points out that he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u685	Senator Falanga, you asked to speak on the order of business, but before you asked Senator Marin to speak on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u686	You're welcome, Senator Marin. MARIN (PdL). Mr President, I would of course like to address Senator Petraglia, who is the presenter of this agenda. Since it seems to me that the will is common and that we all agree in this House that the distinction must be made between non-profit and profit [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Susta]] , I think it is possible to propose to Senator Petraglia that we simply refer to voluntary associations. Volunteer associations are also regulated by regional registers. As we refer to the various regional registers and since each Region, for different sections, unites the voluntary associations, I believe that, recalling the specific regional registers and specifying the word "non-profit" the whole Assembly is able to vote on the agenda proposed by the senator. The distinction must be made on the basis of the regional albums of associationism, distinguishing between profit and non-profit.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u687	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u688	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u689	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, I only speak to avoid precedents which can be extremely dangerous for the future. In fact, the rapporteur, Mrs Bernini, suggested a rewording of the agenda and read it. The proposers on the agenda accepted the rewording and the government agreed to the rapporteur's opinion. That agenda, therefore, was essentially accepted by the Government. After all this happened and then the topic was closed, the excellent intervention of Senator De Biasi reopened the issue. What do we do now? Do we vote for something we have already voted for? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We didn't vote for anything. FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, we did not vote, but if the reworded agenda is accepted by the Government, the subject is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u690	No. The proposer, the ruler of the agenda, accepted Senator Lo Giudice's suggestion and corrected it by distinguishing between voluntary associations and social promotion associations. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u691	Mr President, can we suggest that the agenda be reworded by adopting the non-profit formula? I suggest we move on, Mr President. [[Applause from Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u692	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u693	. It's not really Italian, but I mean... It is Senator Petraglia who has to decide on her agenda. STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we welcome the rewording proposed by the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, even with the rapporteur's favourable opinion, the G49-c.102 (text 2) agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u694	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u695	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u696	DE POLI (SPI). Mr President, be careful: the world of volunteering falls within the scope of Law No 266 of 1991, social promotion under Law No 383 of 2000; non-profit also includes a whole range of profit-making associations. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u697	However, with this rewording, the amendment was accepted. Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u698	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u699	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u700	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, you said that the amendment was accepted, but, I am sorry, the amendments were voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorry, I was wrong: I wanted to say that the agenda is accepted. MARTELLI (M5S). Since four or five formulations have been heard, could I please ask you to know what the final wording is? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u701	We will get it for you; you will certainly read it in the Report. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u702	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u703	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u704	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Here in Taranto the situation is really serious; imagine that very often the night (those bastards at night spit out all the poisons) there is a terrible smell and we are forced to close the windows, with the heat that dies, but I often leave them open because otherwise we lock ourselves in the house with those filth in the air. To make it short, we are trapped: we cannot save ourselves either by opening or closing the windows. On the ground, then, you can wash a thousand times, but the rinse water is always black, like the feet of my children when... (Brusio). Mr President, I realize that this political class has no interest in listening... [[Comments from the PD group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u705	I beg colleagues to step away in silence. Continue, Senator Ciampollo.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u706	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I was like, On the ground then you can wash a thousand times, but the rinse water is always black, like the feet of my children when they forget to wear slippers. I mean, we're in a constant cloud of smell in Taranto, reminding you of every five minutes you could die. With regard to alternatives, I don't know if it can be useful, but where Ilva is now it could create the entire chain of differentiated waste to be recycled, so we could also eliminate some incinerators and some landfills. For the rest, there are no words to thank you. Keep fighting for us, you're our only hope, and it's not fair to say. Alessandra Fiusco, Tarantina, mother of four children. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u707	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u708	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u709	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to remember with great sorrow what has happened in Sicily these days: I am referring to that woman who lost her life to give birth to a child who was unfortunately already dead. This woman has undergone a C-section surgery, had complications and was looking for a place for resuscitation; here begins the first problem: there are no places for resuscitation. So you look for a place outside the Province, it's called an exile and the helicopter breaks down, it doesn't work, there's a fault: you lose precious hours and when finally this woman arrives in a resuscitation facility very far from her home there is nothing more to do. I would therefore really like to ask you to pay attention, because life is the most precious thing we have and if we are in this House it is to defend life in all its ways: from conception to the last moment we have to live. This woman in her life plan had chosen to have a child, had had this gift but failed to carry it forward: the child was born dead. So I ask: what diagnostic-therapeutic path is there for pregnancy still today in Sicily? Why do we not think once again of strengthening those free structures present on the territory called consultors? The economic crisis saves citizens and citizens also on health. People don't have any more money to pay for private visits. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] As it is envisaged that there will be counselors for families and assistance to women at all stages of their lives, that an inquiry should be carried out (I say this to the Health Commission of which I am a member and to this House) and that we should see where the services work and where all this is ignored, despite the great proclamations. Again, the emergency-emergency network in Sicily is full of holes and this umpteenth story confirms it. Let's learn from mistakes. Was there a medical error? I don't know, but if there have been negligences (a doctor speaks) they should be sought and punished. If there have been other negligences, it is necessary to remedy all this because another woman cannot die of childbirth again because of negligence and lack of means. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]] I made a brief speech earlier during our debate. Think of the non-existent infrastructure in Sicily: there aren't even roads. You can't apply the spending review in the same way on an island that doesn't even have enough infrastructure. My Province - that of Ragusa - does not have a kilometer of highway; other than third and fourth lane! Do not tell me that I have to do moderate interventions, because when people die - and often die - this cannot be pickled. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u710	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u711	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u712	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Rule 79 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the 5 Star Movement Group makes its own the bill No 452, already presented and signed by the prescribed number of Senators of the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u713	I take note of all the resulting regulatory effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u714	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u715	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u716	CRIMI (M5S). Following President Morra's request, as the first signatory to draft law No 452 (the title of which is 'Clean Parliament': it is an electoral bill), I ask that the procedure laid down in Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure be applied and that the statement of urgency of the measure be put to the vote in the Chamber. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u717	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-90.ana.u718	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, August 7, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 and the second at 15, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.51 a.m.
