ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group. Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]] I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.41 a.m. and resumed at 10.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u6	The session is resumed. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 10:03 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1079, already approved by the House of Deputies. He asked to speak to the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u10	Mr President, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to raise an issue which is echoed in this House yesterday, and I imagine it will return to being mentioned today: that of the homogeneity of the decree-laws, in their original version and in the amended version which is then dismissed by the House or which comes to this House from the other branch of Parliament. I must not remind anyone that the criterion of homogeneity, together with that of necessity and urgency, presides over the evaluation of the censorability of decree-laws, even if converted. There are judgments of the Court on this, because the point is that, whenever the requirements of necessity and urgency and homogeneity - on this I shall return - of the decree-laws are violated, they do not exist, the ordinary legislator is given the power to alter the constitutional division of competences between Parliament and the Government. This is an essential issue. Moreover, with a recent judgment that my fellow Members will recall, No 22 of 2012, the Constitutional Court has reiterated the constraint of the homogeneity of the modifications made by Parliament in the course of conversion, and it has also confirmed that, if this homogeneity is lacking and the changes are unrelated to the content of the decree-law, there is constitutional illegitimacy of the amending provision for improper use of the parliamentary power of conversion. Moreover, Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988, which is not a constitutional rule, can legitimately supplement - still stated by the Court - a parameter of constitutionality, because it represents an explanation of the ratio of the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution. The preamble was perhaps useless, because each of us knows these requirements, just as each of us has listened to the President of the Republic's repeated invitations on these points. What I want to represent to the House, to my colleagues and to you, Mr President, and to the representative of the Government, is that the first Commission no longer intends to violate the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, nor to depart from the Constitutional Court's rulings and the numerous appeals of the President of the Republic. [[Applause.]] We crowd the conferences, the talk shows and the public debates, talking about good legislation and the reforms that, cathartically, will be introduced into our system. It's not like that. We must today, here, regardless of the reforms, implement the Constitution and ensure that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can do its job well. It is our contribution to the authority of the institutions and good legislation. As we are pleased when the Budget Commission guarantees compliance with Article 81 of the Constitution, we intend to respect Article 77 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] We have already resigned this position to Minister Franceschini, who obviously agreed with us and ensured that the Government will adhere to these principles. Starting tomorrow, I imagine, because both the case of the decree that we examined yesterday and that of the decree that we examine today bear witness to absolutely the opposite. Now, I think that this is a qualifying point in the work of this legislature, and I also think that the reasons of politics we all understand. There are, however, some behaviors and some bad practices that must be eliminated from our daily work. I am referring in particular to the fact that, precisely by circumventing Article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, many amendments to the decree-laws often come from the Government in order to skip the control of the Accounting and the necessity of boiling and distorting the meaning of the decree; and this obviously facilitates the submission of amendments by colleagues with the same characteristics of unevenness. And not everything can be reduced to control over the eligibility of the amendments, because the President of the Commission and the President of the Senate are being discharged with an improper task, sometimes even with margins of some approximation and sometimes even of some arbitraryness. So, Mr President, I had a duty to gather an absolutely unanimous opinion from the Commission and to take the interest of the Senate, Parliament and the Government, and to make the interest of the institutions, to reaffirm this position of the 1st Commission. I apologise to my fellow Members for taking time out of our work. [[General Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u11	He asked to speak to the President of the 2nd Permanent Commission, Senator Palma. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u12	Mr President, there is no point in saying that I agree with everything that President Finocchiaro has just said. On this, of course, as President of the Commission, I would like to represent certain circumstances in this House, some of which are certainly known and others less. You see, Mr President, this decree-law was issued on 14 August 2013. President Finocchiaro has already spoken about the heterogeneity of matters, and I would like to say that perhaps this is one of the very few cases in which it was decided, by decree-law, to legislate on criminal law and criminal proceedings, moreover, while the Senate was already engaged, in 1a and 2a. The Commission, in dealing with exactly the subject of so-called feminicide. This decree-law, which was fired on August 14th, was transmitted to the Chamber of Deputies and, from the Chamber of Deputies, came to the Senate of the Republic after October 9th. Needless to say, senators, that in front of us there is an alternative: or the launch of this bill of conversion as we have received from the House, or, expected the times, move us for the decadence of the decree-law. In any case, Mr President, what is happening (and probably has also happened in the past to inverse parts), demonstrates the following concept. Beyond what is the constitutional prediction, in fact, the principle of equal bicameralism is breaking down, being really not possible for a Chamber, in case of decrees law, to arrive, under conditions similar to these, to the modification of the decree. So we can do nothing but make the heavy decision to make the decree lapse or to launch it as it is. All this would not be a problem, Mr President, Senators, if the bill of conversion, apart from the political differences that may also exist on certain points, did not present those which, in my view, obviously, appease themselves as technical errors. And then, without dreading this House more than anything, I would like to represent only three issues. The decree-law provided for an aggravating factor in the case of a crime of ill-treatment in the family when the ill-treatment in the family occurred in the presence of a minor child. This provision has literally been changed in the Chamber of Deputies, and it has been imagined that it could provide for a general aggravating factor, which is inserted at the end of Article 61, paragraph 11 of the Penal Code, which states that "in crimes which are not harmed against life and individual safety, against personal freedom and in the crime referred to in Article 572" the fact is aggravated if committed in the presence or harm of a minor of eighteen years. Let me give you two examples of this. I meet Senator Cardiello in Piazza Navona, to whom - as I say - I am not bound by a stream of sympathy; I hit him on the face, then I commit the crime of beatings or injury, depending on the force with which I throw the fist; casually a minor of eighteen years passes: the crime is aggravated. Let's assume that a student of first high school carries out a similar behavior towards one of his schoolmates in the presence of another schoolmate: the crime is pluriaggravato as committed in the detriment of a minor of eighteen years in the presence of a minor of eighteen years. Why did the House of Deputies wish to imagine such a general attack? I would also like to make a second remark to the House. An increase is foreseen when the fact has been committed by those who had had an affective relationship with the taxable person. What does affective relationship mean? And when must this affective relationship have been there? Is it worth, for the purposes of the attack, an affective relationship (I don't know what kind, because the definition that we can give is the most different) perhaps celebrated 10 or 15 years before and going to live again at the time of the committee of the fact, since the norm makes a reference tout court to the affective relationship, without defining it and even without compressing its times? A third point, Mr President, Senators. When we talk about a measure of prevention for conduct of domestic violence we imagine a strange path, that of an anonymous denunciation with which the police bodies are warned that at home Palma, for example, there are events of violence definitely relevant. The complaint, I repeat, is anonymous. Police bodies are activated, and they are activated for the purpose of warning: therefore, prevention. But if I then go to read the definition of domestic violence, which is precisely the prerequisite for that warning, I find myself faced with one or more serious acts, that is not episodic, of physical, sexual, psychological, economic and anything else violence: I find myself faced with facts that, if they are framed in the specific cases provided for by the penal code, they are all processable of office. I have made these remarks, Mr President, to say how we are going to apply or not to apply this measure. This is a decision for the House. As far as the Commissions are concerned, with regard to the decisions that I and President Finocchiaro find in full agreement, I say from now on that, in the event that this Assembly converts the decree today, in the next week we will close the general discussion of other bill, always on feminicide, in the Joint Commissions: we will immediately open the amendment phase, in order to make the corrections that they consider to have to make to that bill, but surely to make the necessary corrections to what seems to us to be, as I have tried to demonstrate to the Assembly only in an exemplifying way, the various errors that are in the provision that we are preparing to approve. [[Applause from the PDL, PD and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I entirely agree with President Finocchiaro. Today we find ourselves examining this decree but, alas, the story is constantly repeated: for the decree yesterday, not to mention the decree "monster" of doing. Today we are in a rather difficult situation compared to the measure we are considering: it is very serious that the government has chosen to intervene with an emergency decree, linking together the feminicide, theft of copper, DASPO and even fireworks. This is also, frankly, offensive to women. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] As far as we are concerned, we take the floor of President Finocchiaro, hoping that this branch of Parliament will no longer tolerate the presentation of decrees which are in open and total violation of our Constitution. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u18	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I can only fully share the arguments of President Finocchiaro, as well as of Senator Palma and Mr De Petris. However, I would like to add further reflections, which are also a reminder that we Members of Parliament, who represent the Italian citizens in some way, will have the pride and dignity that will allow us to say enough. While it is true that we have violated Article 77 of the Constitution on several occasions in order to clear decrees that were otherwise homogeneous with regard to content and matters to be dealt with, I believe that at this point we must put an end to this story, which will otherwise lead us, in two months' time, to renew the same reflection. I myself had a confrontation a few months ago with the minister for relations with Parliament Franceschini in which he assured us - I was not alone - that it would be the last decree (it was exactly the decree of doing) that had these completely negative characteristics. I would simply like all of us, especially you in the majority - and I am telling you this very sincerely - to ask the Government for more respect for Parliament, and consequently for the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Cristofaro]] I very much liked the reflection proposed by Senator Palma on the fact that the material Constitution, which is what is actually being implemented, was again able to betray the principle of perfect bicameralism, because on this occasion too, on this measure on feminicide, just as in the past, as my colleague De Petris recalled, in fact, the Government asks us for trust because if we do not approve it today, in fact, it will not be converted. Then, let the Government assume its responsibility, even to the parliamentarians of its own majority. I think that with these words I am also producing arguments that should be made of their own on the part of those who sit both on my right and on my left, provided that the parliamentary institution is at heart. The question now arises as to whether we are in the presence of a parliamentary republic, or something else, a hybrid which, in fact, has given way to Montesquieu and the theory of the balance of powers, has placed the Executive on something extremely higher, so that the Legislative does nothing but follow and regulate according to the will of the Executive. Frankly, I've studied the Constitution a little bit, and it seems to me that the opposite is true. So let us try to reset the powers and try all of us - right, left, PD, PdL - to have the parliamentary institution at heart. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mineo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u21	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we fully agree with the speeches made by President Palma and President Finocchiaro. It is clear that the issues they have raised are extremely important, and I believe that careful consideration is needed on them. However, I ask the following question: why are we in this situation? Why does the House, in this case, but the Senate, in other cases, take the responsibility of totally taking over the spaces related to the conversion period? Why are politics and our behavior no longer inspired by substance but simply acting on media drives that force us to behave contrary to constitutional principles? That's the point. Members of Parliament - Members and senators - are no longer in a position to decide independently in accordance with the principle of self-determination and the absence of a mandate. Unfortunately, we have a bond of mandate: the bond of mandate is the media pressure that unleashes on issues, certainly of great importance, but that cannot be treated in an emergency key, because emergency in emergency we produce new emergency, because the laws are not carefully and thoroughly evaluated and discussed with the time necessary for a maturation of the conviction appropriate to the problem. I raise this question and also that of the production of amendments totally instrumental to the parliamentary dialecticals to be used within the media in order to induce positions of the public convenient from the electoral point of view, but certainly not convenient in the real interest of the country. On these issues, then, let us pay close attention and ask for Parliament's attention, because that is not the way forward. Of course, the question of feminicide is particularly serious, but we must give true answers, we cannot make manifest laws. We must introduce into our legal system no contradictory and equivocal laws in interpretation. We have also discussed on other sides this problem of the grey areas of the laws, subject to arbitrary interpretations, certainly not in the interest of the country. From this point of view, we will not be intervening in the debate today, because it is useless. We are responsible for the conversion of this decree, but it is certain that in the coming weeks we will have to review its content, and also our behaviour. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u24	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr. President. I would like to speak on two extremely sensitive aspects, which relate to the progress of the work of this House, in the interests of all its members. Mr President, the first issue is the understanding that the presidency of the Senate should try to maintain and adopt with the President of the other branch of Parliament on the timing of the transmission of decrees. This is an ancient affair; I know and understand the difficulties of the Presidency, but this seems to me to be a striking case. I allow myself to subtlely denounce him and point him out to his attention because I believe that there are very few precedents of decrees issued at second reading on the eve of the deadline. I do not want it - I know it is not your responsibility - but I hope that such incidents will no longer occur in this parliamentary term, because if this time my Group, out of a sense of responsibility, in view of the delicacy of the subject, will vote in favour of this measure, I now announce that in subsequent cases we will consider, on a case-by-case basis, whether this branch of Parliament is given the opportunity to amend the texts. I would like to add another subject, that of unevenness, to which President Finocchiaro has fully referred. It is an old subject, to which the Head of State has referred several times to us citing famous judgments of the Constitutional Court. In the decree-laws, in particular in the context of the amendment, it is necessary to include amendments that are compatible with the plant and with the matter treated. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed out these anomalies and the Head of State has several times sent letters to the presidencies of the House and Senate to monitor the admissibility of amendments when converting decree-laws. It seems to me that this decree is totally uneven; I hope that it is the first and the last episode to occur, even with respect to a possible reposition of this scenario, my Group will consider on a case-by-case basis whether to approve such texts. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u25	It is pointless to repeat that the Presidency has taken all the necessary steps to avoid this. We must also make self-criticism in order to try, each other, to send to the House in good time the measures that are being fired by this House, so that the other branch of Parliament can also fully assess at the right time what is being discussed. This is part of the relationship between the two rooms.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u27	You have the right to do so. I would just remind you that your Group has already spoken, so I would ask you to limit the duration of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u28	[[Comments of the PD Group]] CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, I will not dwell on arguments: we have already heard those put forward by Presidents Finocchiaro and Palma, who find my complete agreement. At this point, I would just like to ask, under Rule 93 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, that the House should speak in the sense of the unconstitutionality of this act, which appears to have been acclaimed. I believe that we cannot once again postpone the denial of the existence of the constitutional requirements of necessity and urgency of an act, especially when it has such markedly unconstitutional characteristics. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u29	As you know, this is not the time to ask a question for a preliminary ruling. It may be proposed again at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u32	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, our Group also supports what my fellow Members have said this morning. I just want to make one point: it is more or less since 2008 - I was in the House - that, for all the urgent decrees and the various measures we repeat that they come out of maximum time, that they are written in a hasty way, that they are messy and uneven; several times, in the previous legislature we have also had a reminder from the Head of State. We believe in Mr Finocchiaro's words and his understanding; we trust that the Presidency will watch over this, particularly when the House is making such a mess. This morning we cannot think of not approving such an important measure; we will do so by closing our noses, because to assimilate - we want to emphasize - the importance of a measure on feminicide to that of measures on fireworks, the uniforms for civil protection, the Provinces and everything else is truly reductive. I don't go any further because I'd risk being demagogic. However, Mr President, we really believe that the time has come - from everyone, because we too have fun amending when the decrees arrive, and it is not pleasant - to draw a line, and we want to do it through you, starting to work seriously on the legislative process and really trying to do the good of the country. I would point out, in fact, that at the moment, working in this way, we are doing exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u35	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, it will only take me a few minutes to point out that there have been real problems with legislation and legislative policy. I have been in Parliament for ten years, and those who have followed Parliament's work in recent years know that I have spoken several times in this House about the excess of urgency, the unevenness of the measures and also the difficulties of coordination in the conversion between the House and the Senate. However, I would like to point out to the House that this has to do with our work, the revision of Parliament's regulations and some changes to the constitutional structure that could make our work much easier without forcing the state to a very wrong way of lawmaking. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] This morning, however, Mr President, we have an obligation that goes beyond the general question that has been raised correctly. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Our obligation is to adopt as soon as possible a measure that millions of Italian women have been waiting for for many years. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] I therefore ask you and the House to do so as quickly as possible. We will then be able to deal with the issues raised today by Senator Finocchiaro with due depth. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u38	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, my group is extremely embarrassed to face this morning's conversion of this decree-law. Those of the President of the PD Zanda Group are important words, which we share. The subject is very much awaited, but there is no moral blackmail worse than putting on such an important subject and absolutely shared by my Group at the same time having to approve measures that we can not even remotely share: it would be to deny what, on other occasions, at other times, we have supported. I am thinking, for example, of issues relating to the Provinces, local authorities and diversified positions on the FTA or some other amendment. President Zanda, no one here is going to object, but I do not think it is too polite, compared to what we are going to do, to make this observation: here we just want to reiterate that, with different points of view, Senator Finocchiaro and Senator Palma have highlighted aspects of real embarrassment from the institutional point of view and of our work as legislators. We fully agree with the approach taken and the complaints expressed. We are faced with two aspects. The first concerns the loyal support for the action of a government to which we have given confidence (which we naturally reaffirm at any time in our parliamentary life) and to which we would therefore like to be faithful, as indeed we would like to be faithful to our ideas, to our way of seeing and thinking on the different issues that are being addressed. That the bond of majority turns into violence, in the sense of not being able to represent what we truly believe is important for some sectors of the country, I think it really very heavy. In the same spirit as some other colleague who has already spoken, we will give our support and we will do as the famous monkeys who do not see and do not hear. I do not know how good this is from a parliamentary point of view, but we are aware of the urgency. However, I hope that this will not happen again.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u41	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to endorse what Mr Zanda said. The institutional issues raised by President Finocchiaro are not new, they are getting worse and we have done nothing in this parliamentary term to try to mitigate them by tackling the reform of the parliamentary regulations. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] However, until now we have never been scandalized by decree-laws which contained rules aimed at the protection of perhaps stronger interests than those of women, which are the subject of the decree under consideration. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PDL groups.]] We have three hours to convert this measure - or at least the first part - that is expected by people who suffer and are victims. In my personal culture, I am very sensitive to the problems of the protection of Parliament, the quality of legislation and the restoration of parliamentary prerogatives, but I would hope that this, which has not been invoked on other occasions, where there were more yielding interests, from my point of view, will not be invoked today at the expense of the interests of the weakest. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u42	For this measure, a speedy debate was called for. I would point out that there are twenty senators and senators registered to speak, reduced to eighteen because someone has already reunited, and there are seventy amendments, proposed, I believe exclusively, by the North League and Autonomous Groups and 5 Star Movement. That's the situation. The rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u43	Mr President, in the spirit that inspires us, I ask that we be allowed to submit the written report. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u44	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u45	THE DEAD, rapporteur. I would have liked to have thought about it, but I am convinced that it is also common to my colleagues, so we will then read it in the report. I therefore give up my intervention at this stage and, if there is reason and opportunity, I will take part in the reply. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u46	The rapporteur, Senator Cardiello, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u47	I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too, as Mrs Lo Moro has done, ask for permission to submit the written report, and I do not want to speak at this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u49	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u50	CARDIELLO, rapporteur. However, I appeal to my fellow Members who are in general discussion: if we want to adopt this measure by now, as we have been asked to hand over the report in writing, then colleagues will also give up their speech in writing so that it remains in the proceedings. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u53	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would also appeal to the authors to withdraw the amendments. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u56	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise to my colleagues. In accordance with Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to speak before the general debate with the proposal not to move on to the discussion of the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Article 96 cannot be invoked at this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u59	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, as I said earlier, I would like to make a point of order. On the basis of the considerations put forward by the President of the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the President of the 2nd Commission on Justice, it is clear that, for common consideration, the act under consideration does not have the constitutional requirements of homogeneity. We are faced with an act which brings together different arguments and which forces Parliament, and specifically this House, to accept as a whole that a very important issue, such as the issue of feminicide, should be dealt with together with topics such as the uniform of firemen, the Provinces and fireworks. This is offensive to this House and to all our activities, even in view of the fact that, contrary to what my colleagues in the majority have just said, we were already at an extremely advanced stage in dealing with the issue of feminicide when examining the draft law in the first and second Commissions. We can deal very well with the issue of feminicide and at the same time not let pass, with that, even sharpening in the treatment of problems of public order (TAV, for example) and technical issues related to uniforms, fireworks or Provinces. I therefore ask this House to assume the responsibility, Senator per Senator, to declare whether we must once again accept - and presumably awaiting other later times - that the Government should put us in a position to approve everything in a single decree, or whether we must, in accordance with the principle of good and better legislation, stop this continuum, put an end to it and deal with the issue of feminicide in the best place. Also because, as President Palma said earlier, the decree-law in question does not completely solve the problem, because it poses other technical problems and does not deal with some of them which the Istanbul Convention, ratified by us, has posed. I therefore believe that it is appropriate and necessary for all and for Italy, to which this measure is dedicated, to take another thirty days or the time it takes, with a sense of responsibility such as to produce the law in a very short time, approving the best possible law, without giving side to this kind of attitude on the part of the Government, which is unacceptable for Parliament and for Italy as a whole. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u60	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak during the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes. Since no one asks to speak, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u61	Mr President, the 5th Commission is still meeting! Colleagues, since the work of the Budget Committee is under way, before checking the quorum, I would like to give colleagues the opportunity to return to the Chamber. To this end, the Commission's budget has been deported. I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. I put the question referred by Senator Campanella to the vote. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u62	Mr President, precisely because of the urgency, the importance and the expectation of millions of women in our country with respect to the approval of this decree, I announce that all the senators and senators of the Group of the Democratic Party who are members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists in general will renounce their participation and require the Presidency to give their written speech so that it remains in the proceedings. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u63	The Presidency authorizes this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u64	Senator Bianconi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u65	Mr President, I would kindly ask you to be able to hand over my written speech so that it will remain in the proceedings and hope that next week the work of the Commission will be able to resume with a view to putting an end to all the distortions present in this decree-law. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u66	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u67	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u68	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u69	Mr President, I signed up at the last moment not to take part in the general debate, because we had already decided to give up speaking, but only to say one thing: it is inconceivable that a Vice President of the Senate should ask the opposition to withdraw the agenda and the amendments. This is scandalous. [[Applause from Senator Santangelo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u71	Mr President, when we are faced with laws such as this, it is difficult to maintain an institutional aplomb in this House. This thing that you have presented to us today, telling us that it is important, giving a great high-sounding title and saying that it serves to protect the women of Italy, which we all obviously want to protect, is rich and full of useless things: you said it yourself, colleagues, but unfortunately in this House we continue to see crocodile tears and hear promises as a sailor. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , like the fact that you will present to us decrees-laws not polluted by other thousand personalistic interests, with rules absolutely uneven with respect to the matter dealt with, which - I repeat - is fundamental. Let me give an example, and I go down in detail: I come from a city like Turin, which has been administered by PD for decades, and from a region that has been administered alternately by PdL and PD: so, you're all in it. With regard to the problem of feminicide - as with others - we have always said that this is a cultural problem. Well, I come from a neighborhood with 40 percent (perhaps even 50 percent) of real immigration, and in which there are school classes now made up entirely of foreign children. It is a not too peripheral, but popular district, which has been completely abandoned, without any cultural space and not even a garden behind the house, where you can find children coming from the four corners of the world: from Korea, China, South America or Africa. We are abandoned: these beautiful measures you put here obviously do not concern the many cases in which a Pakistani father kills his daughter because he does not marry the person they have foreseen for her. Or, let's think about the practice of infibulation: if you would travel the world, colleagues, you would find yourself in countries where this practice, beyond religion, is culturally transversal and has many realities. To address these problems, not just the fine words you are instrumental in these measures, but you need real interventions on the territory, but - alas - you have destroyed health care, you have closed all the anti-violence centers, you have closed the paediatric and family consultors. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] You closed the schools and spaces for the kids: we have nothing, we were abandoned by you! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Massero's comments.]] That's it: come to my neighborhood, to the Wall of Milan-Aurora. Come and see: Porta Palazzo, if you travel around the world, you notice that immigrants, Africans know it, because the world passes by. Then, in order to create a future worthy of our children and daughters, our wives, our relatives, the Italian citizens, we must provide in another way, not say beautiful words. Not only that: in the decree-law you put in other measures, according to a method that, as you have argued, is shameful. But who are these amendments coming from? From us, from the Five Star Movement? No: they come from PD and PdL! Let us see some of them, since you have already mentioned them. The burden for whom steals from construction sites, for whom will it be made? All right, let me make one point: the TAV symbol doesn't stand for high-speed train - it's not female - but for high-speed train. So, if you have thought of these amendments for that, I suggest you correct them, because that is not the case. The same goes for the fireworks and many other amenities you put in here! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Then come and tell us that from today you will no longer do it and no longer put things not compatible with the decree-laws. Well, gentlemen, in the debate on the Update Note to the DEF you have declared an amendment by our Senator Molinari to put a roof on gold pensions impossible. That was relevant. Now explain it to the Italians! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u72	Senator Morra is enrolled to speak, and during his speech he will also present the agendas of the day G100, G101, G102 and G103. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to outline four agendas which, in our opinion, have absolute rationality and, therefore, I believe and hope that they will be accepted by everyone. In particular, the G103 agenda commits the Government to assess the possibility of adapting the content of the penal code to the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention of 11 May 2011, by explicitly introducing the crime of psychological violence, i.e. by punishing with imprisonment up to three months and payment of a fine of up to 500 euros, anyone who adopts conduct intentionally aimed at compromising the psychological integrity of a person, by coercion or threats. I believe that there is no need for debate on this agenda, because much more than physical violence is to be condemned than violence of other kinds that every day undermines the dignity of people, and especially women, who, because of cultural problems - and I would like to reiterate what my colleague said earlier - continue to be the object of attitudes that are completely to be suppressed and condemned. And we can and we must do that by intervening on the penal code. The G102 agenda, considering that a year of cohabitation is completely unreasonable as a sufficient reason to prevent one of the spouses from challenging the marriage, in particular in the cases provided for in the first, second and third paragraphs of Article 122 of the Civil Code, asks the Government to assess the appropriateness of repealing the fourth paragraph of the aforementioned Article 122 of the Civil Code. This request also seems to me entirely logical and consistent. Still, with the agenda G101, the Government is asked to introduce within the Italian law the crime of forced marriage, a case that unfortunately is spreading more and more also in our territory. Too often, in fact, we check how adults or minors are forced to contract marriage against their will. It is requested to introduce this crime, in particular considering the hypothesis in which citizens resident in a foreign State, are drawn by deception to the national territory in order to contract marriage, inflicting on them a very serious violence: before even physical, I would suggest, psychological, and even more moral. I would like our country to win the attention of public opinion because it is capable of intervening on factors that can transform our moral behavior. Finally, with the agenda G100, it is asked to commit the Government to introduce an amendment to article 155- bis of the civil code, in particular by providing that, according to paragraph 1, the judge, in ordering custody of the children, must first take into account episodes of violence and past abuse, directed against the child, the spouse, even divorced or separated, the partner even if not living together. In the event that there is certain evidence to this effect, the judge will automatically have to exclude the parent who is the author of the acts of violence from parental responsibility and custody of children. In this regard, I invite you to consider in memory what we have all learned as a result of recent events of black news. Well, even this last request, this last invitation is also an expression of pure common sense. Let us not repeat tragedies that are unfortunately frequent, as we see from the chronicles; we have the tools to do so. We do not refer to a next decree-law, we try to be active and binding, but above all we try to have at heart the demands of women and people, without demagogy. In this case, let's leave the fireworks alone: since you want to proceed as a matter of urgency, you can at least do what everyone's moral conscience demands. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u74	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u75	We have agreed in full with the issues raised by Mr Finocchiaro, Mr Palma and in all the speeches that have been made. For this reason, it would have seemed useful to close the debate on this decree and postpone it, to make it lapse, because it is not a decree to pass. This will not happen, because this House will again be the victim of blackmail. And it is a blackmail that has its roots in a fear that I have recorded in colleagues with whom I have spoken: the fear is that the decadence of this decree does not follow the urgency on the bill that has already been incardinated in the competent Commission and that it is already in the work, because the general discussion has ended. The fear of colleagues is that, then, this bill will not proceed in its examination. So we must get rid of this fear, because the presence of this fear means that we do not have confidence in our colleagues and in the will of all of us to complete the examination of a bill which is much better, in its text, than the five articles contained in this decree and which above all is organic and is not affected by the presence of topics outside the subject. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which paradoxically constitute a violence, once again, against the sensibility of the women who conceived and drafted that bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Since the important and complex decisions need the soul to withdraw in silence, because it is in the silence of the soul that the words of our consciences ripen, I welcome the solicitation received from a colleague who could not be here today, Laura Bottici, and I ask that the remaining time of my speech be used to bring down silence to this House and that it be of use to all of us to gather ourselves in an intimate reflection... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u76	Please continue, Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u77	Montevecchi (M5S). ...that gives way to our conscience to express ourselves, to our fears of appeasement and, when we vote, to make the right decision. I remind all the colleagues that years ago we went to the square to say not "then" but "if not now," when? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] D'ADDA (PD). You? Us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so. Montevecchi (M5S). No, no, no, sorry, Mr President: I asked that in the remaining time, until the end of my five minutes, there should be silence in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As I lead the House, it takes time to speak. If you've run out of time... Sometimes the theater reminds us that silence is also a gesture. MICHELONI (PD). Call the guru! Call Casaleggio! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, you don't have the floor, Senator Montevecchi. Please, Senator De Cristofaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u78	Mr President, unlike some of my colleagues who have given up speaking, I would like to make a brief speech, not least because I do not want anyone else's sense of responsibility to be abused. I understand there are deadlines. My Group will not participate in the vote, for a number of reasons which I will try to explain, but because we believe it is important that this decree be adopted, we have decided not to table amendments. And it seems to me that this sense of responsibility is already significant in the condition in which we are. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara.]] But we are even asking ourselves not to speak and not to participate in the debate. Mr President, let me say this: I do not like the demagogies and craps that are being said against the caste, and I think colleagues know me by now. However, to ask ourselves to shut up because we have to conclude the sitting at 2 p.m. and we cannot conclude it at 3 p.m., this, frankly, is totally unacceptable. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Micheloni.]] I say this with the premise, I repeat, that the demagogic attitudes in this House have always fought them and I will fight them until I have a voice. Something about it, though, I want to say. Something has been said by my group's colleagues, by my Parent Company a few minutes ago, and also in other speeches. I would now like to try to explain why a group like ours, the Left Ecology and Freedom, will not participate in the vote, which - I think I can say this - on a subject like that of feminicide can hardly take lessons from someone else, since it is several decades, and not several years, that women, but also men within this political history are fighting, not simply in Parliament, but above all in the squares of this country to assert some rights. I would like to begin by saying that, in our opinion, what we are calling today's decree against feminicide is actually a real security package, and we would like it to be called by its real name. Of course, Mr President of the Senate, we are very sorry about this and we are very sorry that the Senate, as has been mentioned, has not been put in a position to be able to work seriously. On the other hand, we have very much appreciated, during these weeks and during these months, the commitment, even institutional, of those who, like the President of the Chamber of Deputies, have pushed a lot for legislative intervention on this matter. I would like to thank the President of the House here for helping to ensure that the issue of violence against women, at last, had a public and political significance and that, finally, after years and decades of silence, it became a central theme of the country's debate. I must also say, as my Parent Company said earlier, that we are very sorry that the instrument of the omnibus decree has been used (as has been pointed out, several times used by the Government during these months), which prevents this Parliament from doing something that would have been necessary and fundamental: that is, to vote unanimously. It is very serious that, a few months after the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, these parliamentary classrooms should not be allowed to vote unanimously! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There should have been cure. There should have been attention. There should have been listening and sensitivity, and not the attitude that the government had, which is to say: since we have numbers and a large majority, then we cut off the debate and use an instrument frankly even little bearable. By virtue of this instrument, behind the morally strong screen of feminicide, measures are taken that, as recalled, feminicide has nothing to do with it: the extension of the term in the matter of arrest in flagrante during sports demonstrations (the DASPO), theft of copper, the rules regarding competition in the armed forces and in the control of the territory, the contrast to the robberies and even the affair of fireworks and objects. I mean, as you understand, nothing about feminicide. And frankly, the fact that the women's body was used in this provision as a mirror for the lark to make everything else pass. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] It seems to us to be merely a political operation. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Excuse me, ma'am, I have ten minutes. At least don't take away our voices, since on this subject you take away our right to vote. However, my only intervention is for our Group. Among all these aspects, and also among some of the merits on which we should have discussed better, I quote one for all: that of the irrevocable complaint, which is also breaking the feminist movement of this country. Some women consider it a positive revolution, while many others recognize it as a resounding step backwards that risks putting women in a situation of great difficulty, also because very often violence, as we know well, is committed by fathers, husbands, comrades, which, as is quite evident, makes a topic like this very complex. The issue of the irrevocable complaint deserved much more in-depth study than the haste and impossibility of serious reasoning. I want to know what the state does and what it has done all these years for all these women. How will the state stand alongside these women who will have to denounce the angeries to which they are subjected? I think it would have been much more useful to reverse the point of view, also because our great regret is that however we recognize that within the decree there are obviously some elements of progress. And that is why we feel a great discomfort in taking a position today that we will still take to the end. Let us consider, for example, the fact that for the first time domestic violence is formally recognised in this country's order. Then we consider positive, and not negative, unlike what I heard this morning, the aggravating for the crime of stalking committed in the family. We also consider the introduction of protected methods in testimonial trials to be important. As we consider important the short duration of preliminary investigations, legal aid at the expense of the State, the extension of the granting of residence permits to victims of trafficking. These are certainly some positive elements in the decree which, moreover, have also been included thanks to the hearings of representatives of associations and movements, as well as the criminal chambers and associations of magistrates, held in the other branch of Parliament. And that, of course, is right. As you will understand, however, all this, in our opinion, makes even more serious the error made during these days: an improper instrument has been used. If another route had been chosen, we would have been in a very different condition. Instead, to put ourselves in a position today - I say this in a word, in order to make it clear to all my colleagues - to vote in favour of funding (and, from our point of view, very modest because it should have been much more consistent) for anti-violence centres but, at the same time, also in favour of the militarization of the territory, rather than the DASPO, it means having consciously chosen to give up our votes. As I believe that the free expression of the parliamentarians of the Republic can never be blackmailed, we, unfortunately, are forced to announce that we will renounce the vote, that we will not participate in the vote on this measure. We think this is really a huge missed opportunity. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Morra and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u80	Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today we must make a profound reflection which, while starting from the unevenness of the measure, invites us to give an answer: a firm answer, an answer that all women expect from us, in an assumption of great responsibility. It will certainly be a measure that is not perfect, it will be a measure that presents some critical issues, but still has its value and value in itself: essentially that of the protection of women, their right to life and protection from that violence that is perpetrated and perpetuated in domestic realities and in social realities. I believe that this is an assumption of responsibility that calls us all, and I do not want to fall into a parliamentary controversy that is not dear to me or to which I am used, but I believe that the invitation to conscience of each of us cannot be dictated only by the momentary and contingent nature of a measure that we are going to vote on. To me it seems that consciousness, in its own definition, characterizes all our actions, and if we are here with the role of senators I believe that from the first moment we will characterize our action according to a feeling that it is in the etymology proper to the word consciousness. Therefore, the invitation that has been presented to all of us of a reflection in order to aware the problem, if you allow me, with great humility but with firmness of content, I refer it to the sender, because the true responsibility and awareness of this theme mean not only to convert this decree into law but to do so quickly, because otherwise we would not have given the answers made to all those women who have suffered violence. I'm not going any further. I would ask you to attach my speech to the record. I want to say one last thing. I think we could all say in this House today: I'm Malala. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u81	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u82	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, President, I should like to begin by expressing once again my disdain for the way in which a sensitive and sensitive issue such as violence against women and children has been approached with other subjects which should have been dealt with in different decrees. In the months I have spent in this House, I have never heard of legislation in favour of or protecting children: this is of monstrous gravity, because children are our future and we must, on the one hand, influence their growth with appropriate education and, on the other hand, protect them by preventing traumas linked to violence from distorting their personality. With the decree today in our examination, in Article 1, there is an increase in the penalty for those crimes of violence against and in the presence of a child. The 5 Star Movement has tabled some amendments with the aim of improving the text and extending the protection of the child. The reasons for these amendments are linked to the psychological consequences of violence on children: the individual needs about twenty years from conception to form a new adult. According to the psychological conception, the achievement of an individual's inclusion in society is the consequence of numerous, varied and complex evolutionary processes. In psychology it has been established that dialogue with the surrounding environment, formative or destructive for the child, begins from birth. The growth of the child can be defined as a complex of transformations, successful or unsuccessful, of the tendencies and attitudes that are normally part of the original nature of the child: the adult is the child of the child who was. This means that, in addition to immediate reactions, violence results in minor long-term effects. Even after years, victims may experience anxious states, depression, insecurity, increased aggression, learning difficulties and guilt complexes, leading to psychosis. It should also be remembered that, in children who suffer a trauma due to violence, often the problem of psychological consequences is aggravated by family breakdown, social discredit and institutional intervention on the child. This Parliament has delayed excessively in updating and improving the rules for the protection of minors, systematically delaying the ratification of international conventions. It has all too often been forgotten that every lost child is one less hope for our country. Protecting and investing our resources on children is the best investment we can make for the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u84	Senator Alberti Casellati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u85	Mr President, the measure we are examining concerns four areas: public order, justice, civil protection, the legal order of the Provinces, which frankly cannot be understood by what logic they are linked to. I therefore believe that I am restricting my discussion to an issue which I consider to be very important, namely gender-based violence. I say that it is important because this measure means that it is enough for a social scourge which has become a real massacre for women. The figures are shocking: 78 victims in Italy in the first ten months of 2013, and in 2012 120 cases of women killed by men. It is a phenomenon that is not only Italian, but international, which sadly binds in negative all countries. In 40 percent of the cases these murders are preceded by psychological, physical and sexual violence that are underestimated because they are done by spouses, boyfriends and cohabitants: the people closest to their affective sphere. It is a matter of violence in the place that should be, by definition, the most reassuring: that of the domestic walls. The extraordinary novelty of this measure is the recognition that violence against women is the violence that is directed against women as such, because of its diversity, because its social role is not respected. It is a direct violence towards the woman, her work, her role, her physical appearance, which over time have led to consider any abuse against her person less serious. Of course, rules have been adopted that can be considered the precedents of this action to combat violence against women, because in Italy we are not zero year: I am thinking of the measure on stalking and the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. But it is an incontrovertible, tragic and urgent fact in the daily news of our country, where the dramatic force of events has made almost inevitable a neologism that really would not have been coined: feminicide. This law therefore represents a cultural leap, because it does not contain abstract norms on gender violence; there are no abstract norms on the violence of one sex against another, but precise, specific and aimed at combating a hateful, disturbing and terrible phenomenon such as violence against women. When promoting equal opportunities, women are always side by side with men, but when it comes to violence, women who suffer equal opportunities face them. This law reflects a further positive fact, because the sanctioning aspect goes hand in hand with those of prevention, protection and participation, because prosecuting the culprits is fundamental, but it cannot be enough alone: we must promote a culture of respect for dignity, consistent with the principles and values of our Constitution. That is why we need a qualitative leap forward from the institutions and what is called civil society. An effort that we can and must all make together to make a common sense of the message that violence against women is an unacceptable violation of human rights. We must work intensively and without saving, so that women, especially those of the new generations, can eliminate from their imagination the feeling of shame, which prevents them from speaking and telling of the violence suffered, the violence perpetrated by men who continue to consider it a normal manifestation, the corollary of a tragic impulse of property for a foreign object, but even very close. Only 7% of the victims reported their murderers. The commitment to a different cultural approach must involve all the protagonists of society: I am thinking for example of the chronicle, because it is unacceptable that the phenomena of feminicide are often described, as has happened recently, as a consequence of a lost love rather than as a result of prevarication and violence. This kind of narrative hides a danger, because it ends up changing our own judgment. Ultimately, this is a good law, because it is a timely and appropriate response from a state attentive to an increasingly important social problem. It is a law that is not the end of a commitment, but the beginning of an important cultural journey. Of course, I have to say that it could have been better if there had not been a compression of the times that such an important measure did not deserve. To reduce to a half-day the study of a subject which constitutes a historical turning point of a cultural nature means to deprive a branch of Parliament of the necessary insights and the possibility of resolving doubts of an interpretative nature which, here and there, the legislative text induces, as has emerged unanimously this morning from the speeches. This, while sharing the provision, is the reason for my great and personal regret. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u86	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u87	I call the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u88	Mr President, I give up my reply, as I believe Mr Lo Moro will do. I would just like to appeal to colleagues in the League, also in view of the procedural procedure in the Commission, to withdraw the amendments, taking into account the agendas presented. I would ask you to withdraw the amendments and then to have access to the agenda in a favourable way.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u89	As anticipated by Senator Cardiello, I also give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u92	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I only speak to answer the rapporteur. We can take into account the request made, but that does not mean a waiver of doubts about the measure. It is important, in our view, that the agendas submitted are put to the vote in particular. As far as the amendments are concerned, we call for Amendment No 4.1 to be put to the vote, which seeks to delete the article on the issue of residence permits, which, from our point of view, is a rule which in some respects still raises many concerns. PRESIDENT. - The debate is When we get to the point, we'll get him back. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u93	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u94	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments. BERGER, secretary. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendments submitted by the Assembly relating to the draft law in title, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion contrary, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to the proposals 4.0.3, 7.0.5, 7.0.8 and 10- bis.1 and without prejudice to all the remaining proposals.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u97	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask that we do not proceed to the examination of the Rules of Procedure after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u98	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Santangelo. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the agendas, which are set out and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u99	Mr President, I am in favour of the G100 agenda and against the G101 agenda. The opinion was also in favour of the G102, G103 and G104 agendas. I am against the G105 and G106 agendas. On the agenda, Mr G107, I shall return to the Government. I am therefore against the G108 and G109 agendas. I give a favourable opinion on the G110 agenda with the following rewording: I give a favourable opinion on agendas G111 and G112, and also on agendas G113 with the following rewording: The opinion was in favour of the G114 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u100	Mr President, the Government gives a favourable opinion on the G100 agenda with the following rewording of the system: On the G101 agenda, the Government returns to the Assembly. The Government gives a favourable opinion on the G102 and G103 agendas. On the G104 agenda, the Government also gives a favourable opinion if reworded by deleting the last period of the device from the words "to the formulation of proposals" up to the words "for reasons of family reunification". The Government takes the opposite view on the G105 and G106 agendas. The opinion was in favour of the G107 agenda, with the following rewording: delete in the first line of the device the adverb "positively" and conclude with the following words "exclusively for crimes of urban violence of a predatory nature." The Government also gives a favourable opinion on the G108 agenda, with the following rewording of the mechanism: "For the purpose of family reunification, to monitor the validity of the documentation on marriage contracted abroad." So, you eliminate the period that follows. The Government takes the opposite view on the G109 agenda. The G110 agenda was adopted as a recommendation, adding the following words to the operative part: On the G111 agenda, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: "It commits the Government to consider whether, while respecting public finance constraints, it would be appropriate to take appropriate initiatives." The rest proceed as planned. The Government gives a favourable opinion on the G112 agenda and also on the G113 agenda, with the following rewording: It commits the Government to consider taking initiatives in order to allocate, while respecting public finance constraints, additional resources. The remainder shall proceed as already formulated. The opinion was also in favour of the G114 agenda, in the sense of including the words "also of an economic nature" in the first line of the device, while respecting public finance constraints.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u103	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that the opinions are broadly in line, but in some cases we are adapting to the reformulation proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u106	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I would like a clarification from the Government. On the G101 agenda, the government has returned to the House, while the Commission has given an opinion against it. I do not want to go into the matter, but I would like to ask just one question. With reference to the second point of the operative part, what are the financial resources? If the financial burden of civil cases is not to fall on the victim of so-called forced marriage, they must necessarily fall on the State. Unlike other agendas, which the Government has had to specify without additional charges, or within the limits of resources, in the present case there is no mention of this. THE DEAD, rapporteur. The Commission maintains its view that this is not the case. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the government representative to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u107	The government confirms that it is returning to the Chamber. At a time when the House was to vote against the G101 agenda, the problem raised falls. Otherwise, at a time when this new type of crime should be regulated, it is obvious that financial cover should also be provided.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u108	Senator Morra, do you accept the rewording proposed by the G100 agenda government? MORRA (M5S). I accept the proposed reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote. On the G101 agenda, the government has returned to the Chamber. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I insist on voting on the G101 agenda and I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Orellana and other senators to take a simultaneous vote on the G101 agenda by electronic procedure. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G102 and G103 will not be put to the vote. Senator Stucchi, do you accept the rewording of the G104 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u109	Mr President, we cannot accept the rewording of the G104 agenda, because it would essentially be emptied of content. We believe that there are conditions that must be respected in order to guarantee to everyone, both Italian citizens and foreigners who come to reside legally in our country, that they have an acceptable standard of living. Our agenda goes in that direction. I think it is necessary to follow the advice, perhaps put in place many years ago, in 1800, of those British politicians who have certainly helped to write the history of the management of migratory flows and who believed that, in the application of rules which some considered rigid, but which were of essential rigidity in their content, we could find the right balance to guarantee to all the same rights and duties. Therefore, I do not accept the request for the rewording of the G104 agenda and I request the vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] MARTELLI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MARTELLI (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote on the G104 agenda simultaneously by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. I would ask the authors if they would insist on voting on the G105 agenda. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, we insist on the vote. MARTELLI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote on the G105 agenda simultaneously by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. I would ask the authors if they would insist on voting on the G106 agenda. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, we insist on the vote. MARTELLI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote on the G106 agenda simultaneously by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. I would ask those present whether they accept the proposed reformulation of the G107 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u110	Mr President, with regard to the G107 agenda, we do not accept the request for reformulation, because, for the extension of the powers of the mayors in the area of urban security and public security, we believe that access to information from the Data Processing Centre for all types of crime is important. I therefore insist on the vote on this agenda. MARTELLI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MARTELLI (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u111	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote on the G107 agenda simultaneously by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. I would ask those present whether they accept the proposed reformulation of the G108 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u112	Mr President, with regard to the G108 agenda, we welcome the rewording proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u113	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G108 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would ask those present whether they insist on voting on the G109 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u114	Mr President, first of all, I would like to ask the Government representative and the majority to explain the reasons underlying the opposite opinion on the G109 agenda and then to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u115	I would ask the Government if it intends to clarify this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u116	Mr Guerra, Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Policy. No, Mr President, CENTINAIO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am sorry that an opinion has been taken against this agenda, precisely because we are talking about feminicide and also about the dignity of women at the moment. Precisely for this reason, the laws of the State that we have mentioned on the agenda are currently in force, such as Article 85 of the single text of the laws of public security (Regio Decree No 773/1931), Article 5 of Law No 152 of 22 May 1975, but above all the Charter of the values of citizenship and integration which, in Article 26, stipulates that forms of clothing that cover the face are not acceptable because this prevents the recognition of the person and hinders it from entering into relation with the others. In all democratic countries we are going in this direction. We talk about the dignity of the person, of the woman; we try to fight all those forms that damage dignity and freedom of expression. Therefore, even the fact of intervening so that a woman cannot be prevented from being able to show her face in public goes in that direction. There is a state law that should be applied and, if we come to approve this agenda, that means it is not. There is the will to enforce the dignity of the person. For example, in European countries considered to be at the forefront of democracy, one has gone in that direction, preventing the use of burqa in public places. I'm saying more, even if a League exponent shouldn't say so, but he should probably come to someone else. In the Koran the Prophet does not say that the woman must wear burqa. It's not written anywhere. The use of burqa was introduced in 1900 by King Abdullah Kalakani, who decided to make him wear it to the women of his harem because he was afraid that they would betray him. From that moment on, burqa was used. Therefore, it is not a religious practice, but a tradition of some areas, and not of all, which have as their reference the Islamic religion. What we are asking for on this agenda is for the law to be enforced, as is the case in Switzerland and in many European states. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] At this point we wonder why a referendum is not called, as happened in Switzerland, and above all we ask that the law be respected. It seems strange to us that it is the Government itself that is opposed to a demand for compliance with the rules. We therefore insist on the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u119	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u120	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G109 agenda presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. I would like to ask the presenters whether they accept the proposed reformulation of the G110 agenda, which the Government has declared itself willing to accept as a recommendation. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, we accept it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G110 agenda (text 2) is accepted as a recommendation. I would ask those present whether they accept the proposed reformulation of the G111 agenda. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G111 (text 2) and G112 will not be put to the vote. On the agenda, Mr G113, there is a proposal for a rewording. I would ask the presenters whether they intend to accept it. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G113 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. A rewording has also been proposed on agenda G.114. Senator Cirinna, will you welcome you? CIRINNA' (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G.114 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, after having carefully assessed the amendments tabled, the Presidency states that amendments 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 4.0.1, 7.10, 7.11, 7.0.1, 7.0.2, 7.0.3, 7.0.4, 7.0.5, 7.0.6, 7.0.9, 7.0.10, 8.5, 8.6, out of proportion to the content of this decree-law, cannot be accepted in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Thank you for the applause!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u121	Mr President, as has already been said, I intend to withdraw all the amendments relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u122	The remaining amendments to Article 1 and the amendments to Article 2 are set out. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u123	Mr President, as far as Article 4 of the Decree-Law is concerned, as a Group of the North League, we are very much concerned, indeed, with our extreme opposition. This measure introduces, in fact, a discipline on the issue of the residence permit, which affects the current legislation, creating - in our opinion - an openness to modalities that could, in some ways, escape control. It appears, in fact, from the text submitted here for our examination that, in the case where there is evidence of violence or abuse against a foreigner and there is a concrete and present danger for his safety, the residence permit is issued. We therefore have serious doubts as to how the application of this rule can actually take place in practice, opening up the possibility, in our opinion, of issuing a permit in sanatoria even in cases which may be highly doubtful. That is why we want to put Amendment 4.1 to the vote in this House. We shall withdraw the other amendments tabled in Article 4, even if that does not mean that we are silent about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u124	The amendments relating to Articles 6, 6-a, 7, 7-a 8, 9, 9-a and 10 are set out. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10-a of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u125	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 10 bis.1 which concerns the possibility for the Ministry of the Interior to assess, by its own measures, the obligation to use an identification code for agents engaged in public policy operations, so that they are identifiable. I refer to the case, recently referred several times, of the fan from Brescia Scaroni who, in Verona, was savagely beaten by police officers. According to the sentence that was issued, some police officers actually beat up the fan, making it invalid for life. Unfortunately, however, the ruling stated that it is not possible to identify which of them carried out this heinous crime. The defendants, therefore, were not convicted, since it was not possible to identify the perpetrators of the crime. That is the point of the amendment that we will propose every time the opportunity arises. On the contrary, we hope that the Government and the Ministry of the Interior will take action in this regard, regardless of Parliament's invitation, and that this rule of civilization will be approved as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u126	We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 11-a, which is intended to be presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u127	On behalf of me and of the Assembly, I address a greeting to the students of the Istituto complesso n. 1" of Città Sant'Angelo, in the province of Pescara, who are following our work diligently. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u128	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u129	Mr President, the rapporteur's opinion is against all the amendments relating to all the articles. We note the withdrawal of its amendments by the League, which we thank for its cooperation. The League has maintained only amendments 4.1 and 4.2, which are identical. We also take note of the assessments of the Budget Commission and the Presidency and, as rapporteurs, we will not table any amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u130	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u131	We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law. Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn. Amendments 1.2, 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5 have been declared inadmissible. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law. I would remind you that the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government have expressed their opposition to all the amendments tabled. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. Amendment 2.2 has been withdrawn. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law. I would remind you that the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government have expressed their opposition to all the amendments tabled. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1, which is identical to Amendment 4.2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, identical to amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.14 and 4.15 have been withdrawn. Amendments 4.0.1 and 4.0.2 have been declared inadmissible. Amendment 4.0.3 has been withdrawn. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law. I would remind you that the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government have expressed their opposition to all the amendments tabled. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.2 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.3 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 6a of the Decree-Law. I would remind you that the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government have expressed their opposition to all the amendments tabled. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6-a. 1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6-a. 1, presented by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law. I would remind you that the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government have expressed their opposition to all the amendments tabled. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, we call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, on all the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.2 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.4 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.5 tabled by Senator Scibona. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.6 tabled by Senator Scibona. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.9 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.7 tabled by Senator Scibona. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.8 tabled by Senator Scibona. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. I would remind you that Amendments 7,10, 7,1, 7,0.1, 7.0.2, 7.0.3, 7.0.4, 7.0.5, 7.0.6, 7.0.9 and 7.0.10 are unacceptable. Amendments 7.0.7 and 7.0.8 have been withdrawn. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 7-a of the Decree-Law. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7-a.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 7-a of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7- bis.1, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 7 -bis.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7 -bis.2 tabled by Senator Scibona. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7-a.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7 - bis.3 tabled by Senator Scibona. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7-a.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7 -bis.4 tabled by Senator Scibona. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Campanella and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 8.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.3 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. Amendment 8.4 has been withdrawn. Amendments 8.5 and 8.6 have been declared inadmissible. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Campanella and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 9.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment to Article 9-a of the Decree-Law. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9- bis.1, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law. Amendment 10.1 has been withdrawn. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, we call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on the remaining amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.2 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment No 10 -bis.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u132	Mr President, we are asking for the vote. I would like to point out that this is not an amendment that intervenes against law enforcement agencies in a punitive or aggressive way but, on the contrary, it goes to their protection, and in particular to the protection of all those who carry out their work with particular diligence. I would like to make it clear, since we are examining the last article and, therefore, this is the last statement, that the withdrawal of the amendments and the waiver of their debate really seem to me to be a supine acceptance of the impossibility of having a debate on such matters. I would have expected, given that the Senate has been deprived of the opportunity to discuss and play its role as Joint Chamber to the other, at least the pride of being able to examine in the substance the individual amendments and also the individual articles, instead of accepting supinely what the Government has decided and what even worse has been done by the House, including even more abstruse matters in the provision. Therefore, this attitude of acceptance, expressed with the withdrawal of the amendments and the withdrawal of intervention, must be deprecated even more because, perhaps, it is Friday and we must finish as soon as possible, when instead we have plenty of time to work. [[Applause from the LN Group and Senator Sonego.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u133	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Crimi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10- bis.1, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment to Article 11-a of the Decree-Law. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 11. Bis -1, presented by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1079 PRESIDENT. I would remind you that there are no amendments to the subsequent articles of the Decree-Law. I put to the vote Article 1, which converts Decree-Law No 93 into law, into the text including the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2. I'll put it to a vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u136	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I begin by taking up what my colleague Mrs Bianconi has done, who sits beside me, who in general debate, giving the written text of her speech, appealed to the House and said that the day following the conversion of this decree, the law should have been discussed. In fact, when laws on equal opportunities, feminicide, homophobia or transphobia are enacted, we must bear in mind that we are in a condition of illness: there is cancer and therapy must be done. Antiblastic therapy, however, is not without side effects which, inevitably, can create problems. It is obvious that optimum is a society in which the Constitutional Charter is respected, where men and women, without making gender or transgender distinctions, are respected and respected, as it is obvious that it is much better for a man or woman to be healthy than to be suffering from a disease. However, ladies and gentlemen, some considerations must be made. The problem arises entirely from a cultural issue: it is necessary to start from schools, from families, in order to succeed in repealing the laws that diversify, those laws that - as I said before - resemble antiblastic therapy and, therefore, do not lack side effects. Synthesizing my speech to the fullest, my culture of reformist and socialist has always found itself in this path. I remember the years 1945-1946, when, thanks also to the socialists, women were given the vote and when they were prevented from being included in different lists, because they wanted to see how they would vote (I refer to the Bonomi Government and the session of the Council of Ministers of 30 January 1945). I still remember the Merlin law, with which closed houses have been abolished, a question which, several decades later, we should review. Moreover, under the Bonomi Government, prostitutes were not considered women and had no right to vote. In these years of the Republic, in these decades, we have made great progress in protecting women, preventing abuse and exploitation of them. Lots of battles have been waged. I repeat, it is a matter of culture, because as it is culturally admitted that mom and sister do not touch each other and are important elements of a family, this principle should also be extended to girlfriends, wives and lovers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we must vote in favour of the conversion of this decree-law, presented by the Government and examined for two months exclusively by the House of Deputies, because it represents a therapy to which we must submit ourselves. However, we must be aware that this is a law that we will immediately have to eliminate once the disease has been defeated and, therefore, the problem has been resolved. In fact, everything that diversifys is not constitutional, does not respond to the philosophy of the constituent Fathers. Therefore, I declare our vote in favour, reaffirming that this is a purely cultural issue. Efforts must be made to prevent this from happening: it is not true that there is a prevalence of one gender over the other; this is limited only to episodes that are not statistically very relevant, but of some interest. Let us not forget that, in addition to a cultural issue, it is also a spiritual issue. Our Christian Catholic religion is quite different from other confessions, as someone said before me: one of the most important prayers invokes a woman "full of grace." Let us not forget, however, that there is a cultural issue in Italy, and I would like to quote, to tell you how much it is necessary to try to carry out cultural prevention. A famous song by one of my fellow countrymen, Sugar Furnaciari, which is called "Women" quotes: Women looking for trouble, women on a phone that never sounds, women in the middle of a street, women in the street without company [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Therefore, even questions that seem culturally irrelevant, which are part of the musical culture, can lead to deform what should be an education that from the family, from the school, from society, and also, spiritually, from the confessions must be carried forward. I declare our vote in favour, but today we will begin to make proposals, projects and make changes that bring about the right balance of prevention in our commitment to true gender equality. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u139	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have to say that I have difficulties and I am embarrassed to speak in this House today about the kind of debate we have had so far, and I would say that there has been no debate on this decree-law. I do not understand and do not convince me of the choice to give up the speeches, but rather I would like it not to be motivated by the need to conclude the work of this House in advance; in fact, it is not true that there are only three hours, because the decree, as we all know, expires on 15. Today we could have had an interesting discussion, if only to give back to the Senate that role that it could not play for the lack of time in examining carefully a decree that, as Presidents Palma and Finocchiaro told us, presents many open issues and problematic. Instead, it was decided to do something else. I find it serious that even the government did not want to reply, but I understand the embarrassment of the Deputy Minister in the face of the almost absence of speeches in the Chamber. I think we have missed an opportunity today, but we have lost it all over the country, and I would also like us to humbly make an act of clarity. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely not true that this decree is the fundamental element, the emergency that we have to face because otherwise tomorrow is the disaster. It is not for many reasons: in the meantime, as we have seen, with regard to gender violence, the measure concerns only the criminal part, despite the changes that MEPs have tried to make to the House, introducing other interventions. Moreover, I understand the emotion, the anger and our sense of impotence when, every day, we read on the pages of the newspapers the many umpteenth cases of feminicide, but we must sadly say that gender violence is not - unfortunately - an emergency, because, as the data show us, it is a structural fact. Then, perhaps, being able to find time to examine a bill, which is already deposited and incardinated in the Commission justice and signed transversally by so many of us, would have been more useful for that world of associations of women who in recent years have built practices and policies against violence against women, very often in solitude and with the total disinterest of administrations and institutions. That world has been widely heard, indeed - and I correct myself - heard in parliamentary hearings, but not heard on the subject. In fact, re-reading the texts, it was pointed out that not only repressive measures were needed, but that other measures were urgently needed. A first step is a framework law that can transpose the Istanbul Convention. In the first few months of work in Parliament, one of our first acts was to ratify the Istanbul Convention. What better condition could have been for a uniform and cross-cutting work for a framework law that really used resources for training, prevention and reception policies and for that very important work that we have to do with schools? We have said that cultural work is the most important thing that we must do as a measure of combating violence against women. I think we really missed a great opportunity on this. Among other things, I do not dwell on the lack of homogeneity of the decree-law, because my colleague De Cristofaro and many other colleagues have said it very well. We also find it uncomfortable to have mixed these elements, among other things by failing to make a commitment that President Letta - I will remember it all the time - has made. In his inaugural address he announced the reduced use of the decree of urgency. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] Since we started working, this Parliament has only worked through decrees. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] In this way, I find Parliament's role and function empty. Maybe we could start here. I must say that I welcome with pleasure the words of President Palma and President Finocchiaro, according to which the work on the bill on feminicide will soon be incardinated, but I also find it singular that the bill on feminicide will have to correct the distortions of this decree-law just converted. I conclude by saying that, as has been said, we do not participate in the vote, because the mixture of different, totally heterogeneous arguments, and on which, among other things, we would have liked to be able to intervene and say ours, explaining the reasons for our disagreement, does not allow us to do so. In fact, unlike what has been said, we cannot fail to see and cannot fail to hear. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u142	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we too - unfortunately - are obliged to complain, first and foremost, about the method by which we have arrived today, on Friday, to convert a decree-law whose deadline is next Tuesday. The text of the measure, as approved in the Chamber of Deputies, came to us only a few hours ago, because with the work of the House and the Commission, in the end, justice and constitutional affairs were brought together only yesterday evening. From this point of view, one cannot but complain how this House has been exonerated: if it is true that we want to continue the reform in order to suppress the Senate, it seems to me that we are going along this path. We, on the other hand, rightly believe that this House, all of us, could have made improvements to the measure. Some of its parties would have seen our vote in favour: there are some rules that actually provide for new legislation aimed at defending people considered weaker, although, unfortunately, as was also pointed out by President Palma, there have been shortcomings, there is a wording that would have deserved better drafting. This House would certainly have done its duty. However, we are faced with a measure that contains a little bit of everything and where we are not only talking about feminicide, the protection of women, of offended persons, of some regulations within the criminal procedure aimed at facilitating people who need particular defense: in fact, issues such as those of the Provinces and theft of copper are included. The unevenness of the measure and the heterogeneity of the topics discussed put us in a situation of difficulty in the examination. It is a difficulty that leads us, in some ways, to really think - I use a word that I really do not want to use - of a form of blackmail. In fact, if the part about feminicide saw us consenting, we find others from which we disagree, and we cannot vote on one article in a different way than another. We ourselves must complain about this way of doing standardization. Putting everything inside these cauldrons also puts in difficulty the same opposition, which cannot well formulate its disputes. We are now doing this in an explanation of vote and in the course of speeches, but at the end of the day, we must accept the measure in a block, reject it in a block, or we must abstain in a block, or we must take a decision such as we are taking now, and that is the way we want to go, that is not to vote. We could also evaluate an abstention vote (as, among other things, was done in the House by the Northern League Group), but we are well aware of the value of abstention in the Senate. And we cannot vote against a measure that speaks of feminicide, but we cannot even vote in favour of a measure in which, as I said before in the context of the amendments, Article 4 provides for a rule that rejects, with the granting of a residence permit in certain ways, a regulation on which, as we have said over the last few days, we believe that this State should insist, in order to avoid further incentives for irregular immigration. I would also like to reply to Mr Crimi when he pointed out the way in which the amendments were withdrawn: the withdrawal of the amendments does not mean that a measure is accepted in principle. If we look at the amendments that we have tabled, it will be noted that they were better proposals for the text to introduce, above all, since it is a cauldron, the new cases of crime or to introduce issues, such as the burqa one, which we discussed earlier. This does not mean that we are giving up these demands; indeed, the amendments will certainly find another place when we consider the issues that must be dealt with by the Senate Assembly in a separate and homogeneous way. We all very much hope that when next time we come to examine a legal text, it will be dealt with on a matter-by-matter basis, so that we can take a serious look at it (as I think we know how to do here) and we can also give a solution. So, I repeat, we do not give up on these amendments, because we are going to re-examine these issues in draft laws or in the places that we too consider appropriate. In conclusion, we announce that we will not take part in the vote on the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u143	On behalf of the Assembly and my staff, I greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo (Giuseppe and Anita Garibaldi) of Narni, in the province of Terni, who followed our debate with diligence and attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u146	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide the embarrassment of speaking in an empty Chamber, with the zeroing of the general debate on a subject that would have deserved much in-depth study, but, out of respect for the subject, to point out the interest of our parliamentary and political group and for the respect of Deputy Minister Guerra, I would like to devote the minutes allocated to me to some substantive consideration. I start by remembering a very interesting publication a few years ago for "The University of Chicago Press," which had as its evocative and pertinent title "Women, fire and dangerous things," i.e. women, fire and dangerous objects. It was an innovative scientific research that concerned an Aboriginal community of the Australian continent, in whose language, among the many peculiarities, women, fire and dangerous objects fall within the same grammatical class. This mixture of elements - which belong there to a culture that unites them, but which ontologically are distinct - in our Western sensitivity is not very tolerable, indeed I would say that a delicate matter such as that of gender discrimination and violence to women demands (and not only for taxonomic reasons) a clear distinction, a very specific consideration. I would therefore add to the formal considerations which have been widely discussed this morning as a explanatory statement of legislative, political and cultural substance. By now on the merits of the decree-law in question, which does not spare us, starting from the title, the embarrassment of the unevenness. Of the twelve articles of which it is composed, the first five concern the matter dramatically urgent for Italian society and the remaining part, from 6 to 12, legislates on security issues, variously declined, Civil Protection and Commissariat of the Provinces. Madam Vice-Minister, the result seems to us formally modest, I would say disappointing, especially if it is commensurate with the expectations of a Parliament that had ratified with enthusiasm and deep conviction the Istanbul Convention just two months ago. However, we recognize - by entering into the analysis of the individual provisions envisaged - some substantial contributions, distributed mainly on two separate levels. The first level is the criminal level, already mentioned by other senators, which translates into Article 3 in measures to prevent the crime of domestic violence, in line with the Istanbul Convention, in preventive and operational matters in the family context: an important legislative progress. The second is the educational and cultural level, to which Article 5 is dedicated, with the important appendix of Article 5-a, which allocates an incremental share of 10 million euros per year for anti-violence centres and shelter homes. This article, in our opinion, represents the heart of the measure in terms of objectives - and we would, incidentally, like the Extraordinary Plan of Action against Sexual and Gender Violence not to be extraordinary, but to become a policy of continuity over time - instruments, preventive actions, training and education to promote recovery from ill-treatment, raise awareness of the media and study at best self-regulation codes for the dissemination of a culture of respect and listening. Finally, I would like to mention the institutional actors involved, who are the Minister for Education and University and the Minister for Equal Opportunities. The role of education is therefore recognized, specifying the places (the school, in all orders and degrees) and the means (the textbooks). We believe, however, that in order to form that shared awareness on the subject, which is really needed for strong cultural progress, in order to reach that degree of empowerment, which is the only instrument that can produce the courage of denunciation and self-determination, this measure is not enough. In this respect, I believe that the seat of Parliament, which is already in operation with a good bill presented at the first signature of Senator Puglisi, will be able to continue. Another important point concerns Article 2, in which the innovative concept of affective relationship is introduced, which provides for the consequent tightening of criminal provisions. I do not want to remember, because they have already been stated, the chilling data of our country both in terms of the number of feminicides and in terms of the collateral victims involved, often children or family members. Applying a stricter penalty for all these cases becomes a socially necessary act and, probably, the only one that is immediately effective. The elimination of all those prejudices and stereotypes, which are particularly rooted in our culture, will take a much longer time than the parliamentary process, even much contracted and muddled, of a decree-law. I believe that our legislative work will be able to continue in this shared commitment among the political forces, today demonstrated by a vote that - we hope - will be in favour and will allow this measure to enter into the heart of Italian legislation, in commitment that has already seen in the competent Commissions an effort to join our political thinking in legislative acts. We are aware, Mr Vice-Minister, Mr President, that political action cannot and, perhaps, must not precede the course of a society's history, ideas and customs. However, it must gather its signals, interpret its inconveniences and provide for them, especially when, as in this case, the progress of society itself is at stake. On this basis I announce the vote in favour of the Parliamentary Group of Civic Choice for Italy. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u149	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the 5 Star Movement share the deep sense of embarrassment already expressed by my fellow Members who preceded me in the explanation of vote. We also join in the sense of frustration that is felt when we find ourselves deprived of our power and violated in what are our fundamental principles of the body that should legislate. We can't even understand the state of perennial addiction that the Executive manifests with the omnibus decrees and syndrome from the last train, of which it can't get rid: that last train, after which it seems there will be no others and therefore you are always forced to operate in the emerging phase. Hence the need to always widen the perimeter and bring together in a forceful and instrumental way a series of heterogeneous norms within a container, to deform it and degrade its design. We enter of the merit and, as mentioned, the heterogeneity of the contents of the provision degrades the most important topic, the heart, of this decree-law, which is the strengthening of the protection of women and the provision to associations that operate on the territory tools to ensure that their action is also protected and strengthened by a legislative side. Let us not forget, moreover, as Mrs Giannini has already mentioned, that this measure follows the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and a number of minor implementing measures derived from it. However, as my fellow Members have already pointed out, there are considerations to be made on the very course of parliamentary work which, as Senator Palma pointed out at the beginning of the debate, not only call into question the constitutionality of this way of proceeding, but also the very essence of our bicameralism. In fact, the Assembly of the Senate was exonerated not only because it found itself having to express a judgment on a closed-box measure, without even having the prerogative to initiate a thorough and articulated reflection on the same, but also because it was precisely in this Chamber that the examination of a draft law had begun that combined the various proposals put forward in this matter. It is, therefore, a double exauteration, which makes the burden of frustration feel doubly. The hearings held in the Chamber of Deputies of associations operating in the sector have literally demolished some essential aspects of this decree-law. It was expressly requested, for example, to abolish the irrevocable nature of the complaint, in order to avoid the risk that the woman, as an injured party, fearing retaliation, would be discouraged from the complaint, in the absence of a real protection that would ensure a way out of these situations of violence. The revocability has been reintroduced, but only in the case-law. Similarly, it was requested by these associations and, then, by us, that we made ourselves spokesperson, and not obtained the abolition of the prohibition of extension of preliminary investigations: another double-blade weapon, which risks favoring the suspect, if not used with care, to the detriment of the victim and the completeness of the investigation. At the same time, the preventive measures provided for in Article 3 represent a drop in the sea compared to the protection that would be necessary for victims. The definition of domestic violence is not congruent with that of the Istanbul Convention. True priorities have not been tackled with firm hands: the structural financing of anti-violence centres, training in schools (which, however, yes, has been introduced, there is a suggestion in the cloud, but perhaps it could be done much more), and also in the police forces, which represent the only insurance policy that can help reverse the cultural drift in this country. Then, as already mentioned, many other clearly foreign rules have been added. We will not participate in the vote on this provision because we do not want to relegate ourselves to the role of the lover who always forgives his lover and postpones the punishment to the next time, thus perpetuating, once again, violence, abuse and disrespect. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We say 'no', 'no', 'no', and we will not take part in this vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u152	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are very particular. We get bellyached and we fight in principle always happens when we have to propose and approve laws that in the matter of civilizations are fundamental. Colleagues, the shame would have been - even if we were good at moving between traps and stray mines - not to approve this measure. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, SCpI and Mixed Groups]] My speech will be very brief. When it comes to residence permits - and I would like to remind you that many foreign women are victims of domestic violence - we must remember that our job is to fight for all women, to remove victims of violence from a real threat, from blackmail. It is a battle not only for them but for all women, and also for men. In some speeches I heard about burqa. But the burqa would put it on every now and then, because a burqa day wouldn't hurt once in a while! Before concluding, I would like to make a further thought. It is a decree-law so innovative that some passages have made the nose a bit crooked. I am referring to the definition of emotional ties in which the European legislation that speaks of lasting coexistence, lasting between 3 and 5 years, is even exceeded. Well, after the adoption of all these laws - and I would like to remind you of the law passed in the last parliamentary term, which amends the family law of 1975 - we will finally have to put our hands on legislation on cohabitation, on de facto couples. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This is a precondition. Moreover - as the Deputy Minister for War knows for all the speeches made in the Commission - we need to reflect not only on the function of the socio-assistance centres, but also on their presence on the national territory. We need a general strengthening of the whole system and of controls. I remember that this decree-law not only introduces aggravating factors for feminicide, which is a simplification, but also protects children more, because it raises the threshold of protection from 14 to 18 years. I am happy to be able to say that the Group of the PdL - this time without a bar - will vote in favour of the bill of conversion of the decree-law. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and European Democrats and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u155	IDEM (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Madam Vice-Minister, I immediately declare that the PD Group will vote in favour of this bill of conversion which, among other things, contains urgent provisions on security and gender-based violence. I leave out the measures which have been the subject of critical interpretations and readings, which, moreover, I fully agree with, even if, by chance, it is precisely when it comes to women that we are aware of procedural defects. I am starting from the points that I find worthy of an emphasis. The measure introduces, in a repressive and criminal way, measures to combat feminicide, which I am not here to list in detail. However, I would like to focus on three aspects which I consider to be innovative and particularly relevant. In the first place, the affective relationship was introduced as an aggravating factor, as a new parameter on which to treat the penalty. This is to take into account the fact that in most cases the author of violence is an ex-boyfriend, companion or ex-husband. In fact, about 70 percent of the murders are consumed within the domestic walls and for this very reason the violence, a watchman of an extreme gesture, passes too often in silence and is silenced and hidden by the victims themselves. It is therefore a matter of violence - this should be a paradox, but unfortunately it is not - from the 'intimate' character and, precisely for this reason, it is so dangerous. To put it in the words of the author Rossella Diaz: "The feminicide has the keys to home." The affective aggression recognizes the greatest suffering linked to a situation in which what was once called love has translated into denigration and beatings. We must give a name to the problem in order to combat it effectively: thanks to this aggravating violence against women, it has a greater chance of getting out of the silence of the private sphere and this is an important step. The second novelty is the irrevocability of the sentence: it is a very controversial issue, which has certainly stirred the spirits between opposing opinions, exactly between those who wanted the norm, to prevent the complaints from being withdrawn at a later moment from the victims - who knows what reasons - and among those who feared that the victims, knowing of the irrevocability, were discouraged from pressing charges. The decree found a mediation between different positions, through the double-track lawsuit. In this sense, the contribution of parliamentary work made together with associations that have been working for years to combat gender violence and professionals who are defending women who have decided to denounce violence on a daily basis, and to whom our thanks go. The third point is the rule on so-called assisted violence. The text introduces an impact when violence is consumed in harm or in the presence of minors. This novelty is very important, because it recognizes the psychological damage created by assisted violence in the child and because it prevents the risk of violence becoming a family tradition. In fact, there is no bad or a good example: there is only one example, which is emulated and which is transmitted by "contagion". This vicious circle must be interrupted, also thanks to this instrument. We therefore find in this decree important measures which, moreover, are being asked of us by the Istanbul Convention, which we signed, as all our colleagues will remember, not later than three months ago. I would therefore point out, taking into account also the critical voices that have not been lacking, that these rules, first of all, do not focus exclusively on repression, aggravating and tightening of penalties, but provide for further measures, provided that they cannot be applied in an emerging way, as required by the instrument of the decree; secondly, they constitute a concrete and effective response to the lines outlined by the Istanbul Convention, which we have all voted with great enthusiasm. However, it must be said forcefully (also because it has wasted too much breath to point out) that repression alone is not enough, because it aims at the protection of women, it reduces them to a weak subject, which they are not. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We can no longer accept a society that must protect women from society itself. We need to start a cultural change, a transversal change, which enters into the pores of the contexts of coexistence and changes its DNA and we must do so with the instruments that the Convention itself indicates to us. We must remove the economic, social and cultural causes of violence against women. It is necessary to start with education and school, providing pupils and young people with the tools needed to have a critical reading of the reality that surrounds them: in this regard, we would also need a reform of the school system. We need to discuss with them and propose new role models, based on mutual respect and equality. It is necessary to affect the images that represent the woman, at last no longer object. The images we see in advertising, in afternoon palimpsests, in magazines and newspapers. And then, enough with the shots we see the victim woman in, with the black eye covered in bruises. Let's reappear rather with the index raised: never dare again! It is necessary to ensure equality of presence in the professions, in power stations where decisions are taken directly concerning the lives and contexts of women, families, children, which women and men should grow together. It is necessary to achieve equal economic treatment because what - pass me the term - less cost - is worth less. This message is harmful. We must build common paths, between men and women, in order to build together strategies against violence and for new forms of coexistence. Here there are no two fronts that clash, two conflicting parts. Effective instruments are needed to achieve these objectives. They're expensive tools. So the resources necessary for the fight against the phenomenon, to make the houses of antiviolence work, the shelter houses, the listening stations, the resources for the formation of those who work there and for the prevention plans, can no longer be irrisory and discretionary, but must be substantial and constant. There is a world outside our classrooms that replaces institutions, challenging every day the concept of the impossible. This world cannot, year by year, stand with its breath suspended if, when and to what extent the financing plans are set and deliberated. We are aware that a decree is not the right instrument to remake a culture, or to launch, at least, a new mentality that respects women and includes them for what they are worth. But we recognize that with our vote in favour we contribute to a departure (late yes, because for how long they have asked us to see and intervene in a new perception of women! Prerogative for gender equality and for the woman no longer to be killed because she is a woman! But it is still a departure). Now we are waiting for a path that must see government activity accompanied by the parliamentary contribution and that of specialists and volunteers, who every day, out there in the trenches, knead these themes with their hands. This approach is useful for finding solutions and not just remedies, and is, always talking about respect, the right recognition to those who can and must contribute to these solutions. We owe it not only to women, but to the whole country which, starting with respect for women and their contribution, can only improve. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u157	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u158	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, I apologise to my fellow Members, but when we vote against their group, I think it is necessary to offer at least a minimum of motivation. I leave out the profiles of not manifesting unfounded doubts about the legitimacy of the decree-law in relation to the heterogeneity of the subjects dealt with, and I do so also because it seems that this is becoming a fairly ordinary and usual practice in our Parliament. But I do not vote for this measure because, apart from what Senator Mussolini has said very well, it presents exquisitely technical aspects which are at least unbearable for a legal operator. I mention only three of them (I might mention many others, but the time allocated to me by the President is short). I ask myself a question, which has already put Senator Palma to himself and to the Chamber, although it comes to the different conclusion of voting in favour of the measure: in paragraph 3 of Article 1, an aggravating factor is foreseen when the offended party is linked to those who commit the fact by a marriage bond - even in the case of a separate or divorced spouse - or by an affective relationship. I wonder what it means to be bound by an affective relationship. Well, then, the judge will have to qualify and interpret a rule that we offer to the magistrate in a vague and uncertain way, because affective relationship could also be a relationship of friendship: even that could be a relationship with affective bond. I believe that in this way the penal code enters the sphere of the intangible, with clear compromise of values of importance also constitutional, such as those of the certainty of the law and the taxableness of the criminal case. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (PdL). I have five minutes, Mr. President. You're from the banks of the PDL group. No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, he's got three minutes. His dissent has already been heard. FALANGA (PdL). No, the meaning of my speech could not have been understood, because... President. Please finish. FALANGA (PdL). There is the other aspect of the remissibility of the case only procedural, with a substantial increase in costs for justice, because we cannot put the case back before the trial. Finally - and I'm done - there is mandatory arrest for persecuting acts. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]] Well, if for the offence of stalking or mistreatment there is the forecast referred to in this new article, the 384- bis of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that is, the emergency removal from the family house, and at the same time the mandatory arrest is expected, I wonder how it is possible for the judicial police to use this measure of expulsion if there is mandatory arrest. [[Comments from PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u159	Thank you, Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u160	FALANGA (PdL). I have concluded, Mr President. She always gives me little time; but not only, she also makes me anxious. [[Comments from PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u161	No, you have all the time you need.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u162	FALANGA (PdL). For these reasons, which are no small thing, I, regardless of the voting direction of my political side, shall vote against this decree-law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u163	I inform you that the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber of Deputies have appointed members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of the Mafia and other criminal associations, including foreign ones. The list of members will be published in an annex to today's report. The Commission is convened for Tuesday 15 October, at 2 p.m., at the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto, to proceed to its constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u164	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the bicameral parliamentary committees already convened on 26 September 2013 - whose constituent sessions did not take place - are again convened, for their constitution, Tuesday 15 October, in the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto, in Via del Seminario, according to the following times: - 14: Parliamentary Committee on Simplification; - 8.30 p.m.: Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence; Schengen Parliamentary Committee. I also communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly INCE and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, whose constituent sessions have not taken place, are again convened, for their constitution, in the headquarters of Palazzo Valdina, Sala Soprachiesa, in the following days and times: - Tuesday 15 October, at 8.30 p.m.: Delegation INCE Parliamentary Assembly; - Thursday 17 October, 8.30 a.m.: Delegation OSCE Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u165	Since the examination of the decree-laws provided for in the schedule of proceedings has been completed, the Assembly will return to meet again on Tuesday afternoon, at 4 p.m., with on the agenda the information of the Minister for Constitutional Reforms on the final report of the Commission for Constitutional Reforms and the second resolution of the Senate on the draft constitutional law of the institution of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms. I would remind you that there will be a joint debate on these two issues. I would also remind you that the figure of Senator Carpi will be commemorated at the opening of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u166	We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u169	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u170	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the draft law as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u173	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to express my closeness to the citizens of the area of Giugliano in Campania that this Sunday, in order to defend their land once again, will manifest the whole day against the environmental disaster that they have suffered so far, a disaster that will then become more concrete with the probable construction of an incinerator. The European Union has also deprecated this practice of incineration: it has prescribed that by 2020 all European incinerators will have to be extinguished. And what do we Italians do? We start building an incinerator. We're close to the citizens. We are close to the Italian people, because this practice of waste incineration is an abomination! It's a biocidal product! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator D'Anna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u174	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-124.ana.u175	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 15 October, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.10 a.m.
