ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 14.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 16 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u3	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Colleagues, at the opening of today's sitting I feel the duty to express, on behalf of myself and the Assembly, the senses of the deepest solidarity with the two carabinieri wounded yesterday in front of Palazzo Chigi, Giuseppe Giangrande and Francesco Negri. [[Applause.]] We all have a duty to pay tribute to them and, at the same time, to maintain the climate of confrontation between the political and social forces within a proper democratic dialectic based on mutual respect, giving first of all an example of how we can collaborate also in the diversity of opinions and proposals. Above all, however, we have the duty, through our parliamentary activity, to ensure that we find concrete, rapid and effective responses to the serious economic and working crisis that affects our country. I am sure that this House will be able to take responsibility for this task. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u4	On 26 April 2013, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Development: Conversion into law of Decree-Law 26 April 2013, n. 43, laying down urgent provisions for the relaunch of the industrial area of Piombino, to combat environmental emergencies, in favor of the earthquake zones of May 2012 and to speed up the reconstruction in Abruzzo and the implementation of interventions for EXPO 2015 (576).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u5	I say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 28 April 2013 Honourable President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, with his own decrees today, has accepted the resignation resigned on 21 December 2012 by the Cabinet chaired by the sen. - I'm sorry. Mario Monti, as well as the resignation from their respective positions resigned by the Subsecretaries of State. Having accepted the mandate to form the Government conferred on me on 24 April 2013, the President of the Republic appointed me, by his own decree today, President of the Council of Ministers. With further decrees on equal date, the President of the Republic, on my proposal, appointed ministers without portfolio avv. Enzo MOAVERO MILANESI, Dr. Graziano DELRIO, Prof. Carlo TRIGILIA, L'on. av. Mr Dario FRANCESCHINI, Prof. Gaetano QUAGLIARIELLO, Member of the Commission Dr Cécile KYENGE [[Applause]] , sen. Josefa IDEM, l'on. av. Gianpiero D'ALIA. Ministers were also appointed: - Foreign Affairs, Mrs Emma BONINO; - Internal Affairs, Mr av. Angelino ALFANO; - of Justice, Dr. Anna Maria CANCELLIERI; - of Defense, sen. prof. Mario MAURO; - of the Economy and Finance, Dr. Mr Fabrizio SACCOMANNI; - Economic Development, Mr Fabrizio SACCOMANNI; - Mr Fabrizio SACCOMANNI; - Mr Fabrizio SACCOMANNI; - Mr Fabrizio SACCOMANNI; - Mr Fabrizio SACCOMANNI; - Mr Fabrizio SACCOMANNI; - Mr Fabrizio SACCOMANNI; Mr Flavio ZANONATO; - of the Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats; - of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats); - of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats); - of the Mr Nunzia de Girolamo; - the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, Mr De Girolamo; - the environment and the protection of the land and the sea; Mr Andrea ORLANDO; Mr Andrea ORLANDO; Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO, Mr Andrea ORLANDO Dr. Mr Maurizio LUPI; - Labour and social policies, Prof. Enrico GIOVANNINI; - Education, university and research, - I'm sorry. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr Maria Chiara CARROZZA; - for the Cultural Heritage and Activities, Dr. Mr Bray; - from Health, Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr Bray; Mr In addition, the President of the Republic, with his own decrees today, adopted on my proposal and after consulting the Council of Ministers, attributed to the Minister of the Interior on. av. Angelino ALFANO, the functions of Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and appointed the President of the Section of the Council of State Filippo PATRONI GRIFFI State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, acting as Secretary of the Council of Ministers. Finally, by my decree on the same date, after hearing the Council of Ministers, I gave Ministers without portfolio, pursuant to Article 9 of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, the following tasks: Enzo Moavero MILANESI the European affairs; - Dr. Graziano DELRIO regional affairs and autonomy; - to prof. Carlo TRIGILIA: territorial cohesion; av. Dario FRANCESCHINI relations with Parliament and the coordination of government activity; - to Sen. prof. Mr Gaetano QUAGLIARIELLO Mr Cécile KYENGE Mr Josefa IDEM on equal opportunities, sport and youth policies; - by Mr Idem, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Gianpiero D'ALIA public administration and simplification. F.to Enrico Letta
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u6	The next item is the statement by the President. The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 8 May. This afternoon the President of the Council of Ministers will deliver to the Senate the text of the programmatic declarations made to the House of Deputies. The debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers will take place in the afternoon sitting tomorrow, beginning at 9 a.m. For the general discussion, two hours were allocated between the Groups. The President of the Council of Ministers' reply - scheduled for 11 a.m. tomorrow - and the subsequent explanations of vote on confidence will take place on television. The call will start around 13 o'clock. After the vote of confidence - around 2 p.m. - the Minister of the Interior will make an information on the injury of two carabinieri occurred in front of Palazzo Chigi yesterday. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes each. The discussion of the document of economy and finance, already foreseen in the current calendar for this week, is postponed to the afternoon session on Monday 6, with vote in the afternoon session on Tuesday 7 May. Next week's schedule also includes, for Wednesday 8 May, beginning at 10 a.m., the secret ballot, by ballot, for the election of three secretary senators. At 4 p.m. the Assembly will commemorate the figure of Antonio Maccanico. Finally, the Conference of Leaders took note of the invitation made by the Minister for Relations with Parliament to start immediately a reflection on the process of legislative initiatives, with particular regard to government-Parliament relations and the decree of urgency. The need to provide immediately in matters of most urgent topicality often resolves with the adoption of decree-laws, in the perspective for the Government of the certainty of the times of examination and conversion. For some time now, proposals for amending the Regulations have been examined by the Chambers in order to ensure that the ordinary legislative procedure is completed, in accordance with the prerogatives of the Government and its majority, which must be accompanied by adequate guarantees for oppositions. It is therefore the intention of this Presidency to immediately follow up on this matter - which has already been successfully addressed by the Senate Rules Council since its first meeting on 9 April - to resume the issue of the revision of the Rules of Procedure as soon as possible, starting with the legislative process, in the wake of what has already been constructively initiated in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u7	I say that by 7 p.m. on Monday 6 May, the Groups will have to send the Presidency the nominations of their members in the Permanent Commissions and the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, as well as any updates if they have already done so. Pursuant to Rule 29 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Permanent Commissions are convened, for their formation, on Tuesday 7 May, at the following times: 3 p.m.: Permanent Commissions from 1st to 6th hours 16: Permanent Commissions from 7th to 13th. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities shall be convened for its constitution on the same day as Tuesday 7 May at 5 p.m. We hope, therefore, to start the work of this House as a whole as soon as possible. I suspend the sitting until the President of the Council of Ministers arrives, which is expected to be around 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.50 p.m. and resumed at 4.29 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u8	The next item is the presentation of the text of the statements by the President of the Council of Ministers. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u9	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as usual I turn over the text of the programme statements. I will of course be here tomorrow morning to listen very carefully to the debate and to the general debate. The text that I deliver seeks to apply the three major issues on which, in the discussion for the formation of the Government, we have tried to conduct the debate with the political forces. The three main themes are those of addressing the economic and social emergency of the country which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Government, is by far the most worrying issue that Italy is experiencing today, and therefore the need to give answers that are strong, emergency, and even structural and lasting responses. Secondly, there is the issue of political reform with the question of constitutional reform which, as you will see in the text of the declarations, is - in the opinion of the Government and my staff - the condition for all other things to be done: either politics regains credibility, or the capacity of politics, with the unbelievable instruments it has to deal with and resolve the problems today, is extremely limited and limited. Hence the commitment and the attempt to find those tools that are useful to ensure that our country and its institutions, so hard put in trouble by the crisis that we are experiencing, can find resources and development to find new answers. Within the declarations you will find all the concrete avenues of reform that the Government considers essential to propose, because then this is a matter in large part of a parliamentary nature. Finally, the third step concerns the future of Italy in Europe and the future of Europe; these are two issues that are absolutely united. On this subject, also in line with what the outgoing President of the Council, Senator Mario Monti, wanted to do and say, it seemed appropriate to assign a very important and significant part of my speech to the subject of Europe. A Europe that as it is today is not good enough, it is not enough, it is not enough; a Europe that must therefore find new motivations and make significant changes. Among other things, at the last moment (since these are things that have matured in the last few minutes), I have included in the speech the information for which, if Parliament (and especially tomorrow the Senate) wants to give confidence to our Government, tomorrow night and Wednesday, on a single trip, I will visit Brussels, Berlin and Paris to give immediately the sign of a strong European and European action of our Government in view of the next appointments. Obviously these arguments represent the lintel of statements made to the other branch of Parliament and delivered there. Tomorrow, of course, I will be listening to the debate, because - it is expressed several times in the text - I believe that this Government must work for reconciliation between the Executive and Parliament, which all too often over the last ten years have lived on opposing fronts without a real capacity to work together. In my statements, I have proposed ways in which this capacity for joint work between the Government and Parliament can be achieved. This is a subject we very strongly believe in. I therefore hope that the debate that will take place tomorrow in this House will give concrete development to this issue which - I repeat - is of great importance to me. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and LAG and the Divine and Candiani Senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u10	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers and note the delivery of the text of the programme statements already made to the House of Deputies. I would like to say that the document delivered will be printed and published in its entirety in Annex B to today's report. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, the discussion on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers will take place tomorrow, starting at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u13	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw everyone's attention to what happened last Saturday, 27 April in the municipality of Maddaloni, in the province of Caserta. A carabiniere, Tiziano Della Ratta, was brutally killed while on duty with his colleague Domenico Trombetta. Together they tried to foil a robbery in a Maddaloni jewelry store and found themselves facing four people. There was a firefight in which the Ratman lost his life and his colleague was wounded. Following this tragic, absurd event we want to address a gesture of sincere affection and closeness to the families, who are suffering from the death and wounding of the servants of the State. We want to express our condolences to the families and show our closeness and our support to all their colleagues in the Carabinieri Army who have worked tirelessly these days to bring justice to the other two robbers who were able to escape during the moments of the robbery. In the same way, our closeness goes to the people who live in these areas always under the pressure of threats, violence, crime, made even more fierce by the crisis we are experiencing, obviously not justifying in any way the criminal gesture. After this umpteenth mourning we ask to know - and we would like some answers - why in recent years the security sector has been put in serious difficulty by the linear cuts it has undergone, cuts not to the benefits and privileges of the executives and officers, but to the service rendered every day by the people who materially patrol our roads, limiting in fact to a real control and popping up the weapons to the people who really want to put a stop to the lawlessness but who are mortified every day because of the miserable conditions in which they are forced to operate. Today we are forced to remember the disappearance of a young servant of the State, Tiziano Della Ratta, and our thoughts go to that small life, to that eight-month-old son who will never know his father. We must have respect for him and we must really, effectively and urgently, reform this country, hoping that really that child one tomorrow can say that his father did not die in vain. With mourning in our hearts, we renew our closeness to the wife, so that she too may find the strength to continue to teach her child the value of legality, which is the basis of a country that believes to be civil. I would ask you, Mr President, to observe a minute's silence in memory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u14	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] The Presidency supports the expressions of condolence that have just been expressed by Senator Moronese. I call on the House to observe a minute's recollection in memory of the deceased policeman and all the carabinieri who defend our institutions daily. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u17	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, Senators and Senators, on 24 and 25 April, in Basilicata, just as the anniversary of the Liberation was celebrated, we witnessed yet another episode confirming that the trace of bad politics has not yet ended. The entire Regional Council and much of the Regional Council have been inquisited. Two regional councillors and one regional councillor were under house arrest. It is a political class which, as on other occasions, has demonstrated total reliability. It is a Junta and a Regional Council which at the moment would not deserve the confidence that has been given to them by the citizens. Recalling precisely the words of the President-in-Office in charge of Letta, who recalled how necessary a reform of politics and institutions is, I would like to dwell in the short time that I am allowed to recall the words of another illustrious figure of Italian politics. I remember his words quickly: Today's parties are mainly machines of power and clientele: poor or mystified knowledge of life and the problems of society and people, ideas, ideals, few or vague programs, feelings and civil passion, zero. They manage interests, the most disparate, the most contradictory, sometimes even shady, however without any relation to the emerging human needs and needs, or distorting them, without pursuing the common good. Their own organizational structure has now conformed to this model, and they are no longer organizers of the people, formations that promote their civil maturity and initiative: they are rather federations of currents, of Camarilles, each with a "boss" and of the "sub-boss."(..) The parties occupied the state and all its institutions, starting with the government. They have occupied local authorities, pension funds, banks, public companies, cultural institutions, hospitals, universities, Rai TV, some major newspapers. These are not today's words. These are the words of a 1981 interview given by the then Secretary of the PCI, Enrico Berlinguer, to "la Repubblica". These are words which, from 1981 to the present, have not lost even a touch of topicality and truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u18	Thank you for your speech. Of course, with regard to the episode of the resignation of the Junta of Basilicata, everyone will respond to their responsibilities in the face of the judiciary that is investigating. The political discourse is clearly separate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u19	I take this opportunity to greet the students of the Istituto Comprehensivo (Baptists-John XXIII) of Corato, in the province of Bari, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u20	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-16.ana.u21	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, April 30, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.44 p.m.
