ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 3 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups, which met this morning, approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 17 April 2013. This afternoon, instead of discussing the motions already on the agenda, the Government will inform on the actions adopted in the matter of municipal tax on waste and services (TARES). Groups will be able to intervene for 10 minutes each. It is confirmed that in tomorrow's sessions the health decree-law will be discussed. Next week the Assembly will meet again on Tuesday afternoon 16 April for the discussion of the Zanda motion on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. At the opening of the session, will be remembered the figure of the deputy to the Constituent Teresa Mattei. On Wednesday 17th, at 9.30 a.m., the election of two Secretary Senators will take place, pursuant to Rule 5, paragraphs 2-a and 2-b of the Rules of Procedure. The vote will take place by secret ballot by ballot and each Senator will be able to indicate a single name. The Conference of Leaders also agreed by a majority to confirm what had been decided at its meetings on 25 March and 3 April with regard to the formation of the Permanent Commissions, also in the light of the decision taken by the Board for the Rules of Procedure on 11 October 2011. It was also agreed to refer to the Special Commission, for Parliament's opinion, the acts of the Government concerning national lotteries 2013, contributions to research organisations and contributions to persons receiving funding for the dissemination of scientific culture. Finally, at 7 p.m. today, the Committee for the Rules of Procedure has been convened to assess the legal and regulatory aspects connected with the timing and modalities of the formation of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, in particular as regards situations of incompatibility arising from constitutional rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u4	The next item is: Government information on measures taken in the field of municipal tax on waste and services (TARES) I call the State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Polillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u5	Mr President, I will do a very brief piece of information by giving the knowledge of Article 14 of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, which for the first time laid down the rules relating to the payment of the TARES. I will therefore confine myself to giving a brief illustration of the differences produced by the decree-law just published in the Official Journal, which has as its main object the payment of debts of the public administration. In a nutshell, the novelties introduced are valid only for the year 2013 and concern the points that I will list briefly. The municipalities can immediately re-determine the expiry date and the number of payment instalments of the tax, even before the adoption of the rules of municipal competence concerning the new tax, as was provided for in the previous law. The only constraint in this regard is that the aforementioned decision to re-set the instalments must be published at least thirty days before the date of payment, in order, of course, to enable families to fulfil their tax obligations. For the purpose of paying the first two instalments of the levy, and in any case with the exception of the last, the municipalities may send to taxpayers the pre-compiled payment models already prepared for the payment of the old TARSU or TIA 1 or TIA 2, or indicate the other payment methods already in use for the same withdrawals (e.g. through a current account). These payments will be decommissioned for the purpose of determining the last instalment due under TARES. The revenue resulting from the standard increase of the TARES - which, as is known, is equal to 0,30 euro per square metre, as provided for in paragraph 13 of the aforementioned article 14 of the aforementioned decree - is reserved to the State. However, the surcharge will be paid in a single solution, together with the last instalment of the TARES, using the F24 model, which is the traditional one with which the payment of taxes takes place, or the postal current account bulletin being approved. In a symmetrical way, the corresponding cuts in the transfers of municipalities are not made in relation to this State reserve. The possibility for municipalities to increase this standard increase by an additional €0.10 per square metre, as was foreseen in the previous scheme, is excluded. They are excluded from taxation, with the exception of open areas operating, the open areas pertinential or ancillary to taxable premises and the common areas condominiums referred to in Article 1117 of the Civil Code that are not held or occupied exclusively. These recent innovations will not affect public finance compared to the expected trends. Finally, it may be useful to note, in relation to some points also contained in some of the motions submitted in this regard, that the possible abolition or postponement of the entry into force of the entire TARES discipline, where provided in conjunction with the abolition or postponement of the entry into force of the increase provided for in paragraph 13 of Article 14 of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011 in the measure of 0,30 euros per square metre, would, according to the analysis of the competent offices of the Financial Administration, lead to a worsening of the public finance balances that is valued in about one billion euros on an annual basis. That, Mr President, was the information. I am of course available for further clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so. (Brusio). Excuse me, Senator, let's see if there's any silence, otherwise I can't hear you. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u7	Mr President, illustrious colleagues, we have now learned about the changes contained in the recently tabled decree-law. We could agree on the concept of the rule establishing the TARES, because in its approach it leads to further awareness and accountability of citizens in paying for the services that the municipalities provide, and that is certainly a good thing. However, in our view there are some problems. The TARES regulation will in any case enter into force now, in 2013, and we believe that the vast majority of municipalities will have difficulties or even will not have the opportunity to adapt because, as they know, it incorporates a whole series of reasonings that come from an economic and financial plan that the municipalities will have to prepare in agreement and under the control of the ATO. In fact, compared to the TARSU system, which takes into account only the square metres of the house, TARES also takes into account additional mechanisms that must be integrated into this financial plan. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] The problem then arises: are the municipalities in a position, in this short period of time, to draw up the economic and financial plan, to have it approved by the ATO and to incorporate these changes, with what they involve? You know that the financial balance between the levying of the tax and the cost of the service is envisaged. Will the municipalities, especially those facing elections, be in a position to approve by 30 June the economic and financial plan and, therefore, the TARES regulation? We don't think so. For this reason it would be useful to move the application of the TARES Regulation to 2014 and not in this overview of 2013. There is a further problem, and that is the problem of collection. As they know, many municipalities in Italy (about 6,000) currently implement the collection through Equitalia that has obtained an extension to 30 June 2013 waiting for the municipalities to organize themselves in order to implement the collection or entrust to another agency. The National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) is studying with the Government a collection system that should somehow replace the work of Equitalia. In this respect, we believe that, for the mechanism that is being created, it would be appropriate for the municipalities to rely on a structure of the kind of Equitalia because it is expected that, in the event that some citizens do not pay, the remaining cost which must be balanced with respect to the cost of the service must be charged to the other citizens, those who have paid. This operation is difficult to do by municipalities, while it is better, as is proven in all municipalities, with structures dedicated to collection. Also for this reason, since the ANCI is being studied a convention with Equitalia to create a consortium part of the ANCI, it would be advisable to slide this mechanism to 2014. These are the technical issues that we believe the Government should consider. Then there is a political fact. Given that, as I said, TARES involves the responsibility of citizens to pay for certain services, it would have been useful - Mr Undersecretary, listen to me - as the rule provided for, that the increase of EUR 0.30 per square metre, which today with a new measure is attributed directly to the State, should have been introduced by the municipalities, because - I repeat - this would have favoured even more that relationship of responsibility between the Common Institution and the citizens. In this way, instead, it becomes a further leap that the State inflicts on citizens always on the house: if we analyze it, in fact, this is an additional tax always on the house. From a political point of view, I believe that this cannot be allowed, as we all say today in the electoral campaigns that the IMU must even be abolished. Instead, we are loading the house with another leap. It could have been useful if these funds had gone to the municipality, possibly not in a compulsory way, but with the possibility for the aforementioned bodies to apply this additional tax in order to make the relationship between the common institution and the citizen responsible so that he could understand and evaluate the service that the municipality gives and possibly pay or complain. This creates a positive relationship in the municipalities. When we apply a tax that goes directly to the state, we cause further damage to the municipalities, because we have burdened the citizens with another tax. Mr President, I have been mayor of a city for nine years and I can assure you that when we return home our citizens, artisans and traders (not to do the usual demagogy) tell us: we, dear mayor, either pay taxes or do the shopping, because both of us can no longer do it. I think we should think about this. My proposal, then, is to leave it to the municipalities to apply this increase of EUR 0.30 from 2014, but to apply it in such a way that it leads to citizens' accountability. This will be done by the municipalities that need to do so, but they will be accountable to the citizens: this is my first proposal. Second proposal: I believe that the State should act as a good father of a family and, beyond demagogy, before still applying taxes, it should set a good example. I do not want to be demagogic, because most people are doing it these days, but I would like to say with great seriousness and serenity that first we should set an example in this House (in this House and in any case at the level of the government) to our citizens: before we apply taxes we see ourselves reducing the weight of the state. This is said by a mayor who, before charging the additional IRPEF, after nine years of office, has cut his salary by setting an example for his own citizens. It was not a big salary, but it served as an example, because I believe that a good family father should always set an example before asking his children to behave themselves. That is our approach. [[Applause from the LAG, LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u8	Senator Berger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u9	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor at a time of general crisis and I can express a positive opinion on the shift in the terms of the payment of TARES, but, in a context of general difficulties such as this, the recession of the economy and of emergency not only for Italy, but for Europe, I have to say that in the years in which it could have been possible, no reforms have been made to simplify bureaucracy and the labour market, nor to decongestant civil justice, so that the country is unfortunately falling into an unprecedented recessionary spiral. On the one hand, therefore, companies, faced with heavy taxes under IMU and additional IRPEF, are now subjected to an unsustainable tax burden (56-57 per cent) and suffocating bureaucracy: from the up-to-date data that are coming, in fact, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are considered a backbone of the economy, is worsening day by day and the number of insolvent companies has increased by 130% in the last 5 years. Entrepreneurs have long complained about the remoteness of politics from the real country and ask for quick interventions because there is no more time to lose; in the meantime there are those who leave Italy to go to countries ready to welcome them, with a much lower labour cost and above all a slim bureaucracy, efficient infrastructure and tax incentives. On the other hand, there are the families that, in turn, between the inflation that is starting at 3% and more, between IMU and children who do not find work, are seen in front of serious difficulties, and to manage their heritage, their home and home of property consume their savings that now for thousands of families are not enough. Moreover, the crisis hits the world of work with particular violence: the number of people who have been laid off or out of work in the last three months has increased by more than 300,000. Meanwhile, housing loans have decreased by 20 percent and families at risk are being evicted from morosity as a result of job losses. In this climate we do not forget the desperate actions of workers, but also of small entrepreneurs who have not borne the weight of the crisis. For this reason, Mr. Undersecretary, I would like to stress that the introduction of TARES in relation to old taxes (TIA and TARSU) will weigh much more heavily on the portfolio of households and businesses. In fact, residential housing is expected to increase between 20 and 40% in around 80% of Italian municipalities, while, according to Confcommercio's estimates for retail trade, bars and restaurants, there will be an increase in weight from 60% to more than 300 percent. The new tax will affect families and businesses as a hidden asset. The national policy with the introduction of this tax, without improving the service offered to citizens, is moving in a very opposite direction to an efficient waste policy that should encourage separate collection and take into account the principle of the most producing more pay, in order to reduce also the quantity of the product. In fact, in particular, the calculation of TARES is based on the average production value of waste, determined by statistical criteria and then related to 80% of the area of the property, in order to determine the amount of the tax. This method discourages the separate collection that in different local realities, as well as in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, has been carried out for decades successfully aiming at the elimination of waste production. We welcome the decree-law on the payment of the debts of the public administration to the enterprises, which was launched last Saturday by the Council of Ministers, which provides in the matter of TARES that the payment of the increase of 0,30 euros per square metre, already provided for by the decree save Italy, is postponed to the last instalment relative to 2013 and that the deliberation is adopted and published by the Municipality at least 30 days before the date of payment, as you, Mr Undersecretary, explained. The postponement of the payment in December is in fact a small breath of oxygen for families and businesses. However, the extension does not solve the problem of increasing tax and tax burden and the consequent increase in administrative burden on taxpayers, which is only being shifted to December. I therefore hope that the Council of Ministers will take a decision of common sense and immediately freeze the application of TARES. In fact, any further increase in the tax levy, whether local or historical, must be avoided. Therefore, I hope that the government that I hope will soon be set up will take priority into account the maintenance and development of small and medium-sized enterprises as a prerequisite for the economic recovery of the country and take rapid measures for the recovery of the labour market. In addition, I would like to appeal to the Government to implement, on the basis of proposals already submitted to the Ministries, a new waste management and traceability system, simpler, inexpensive and in line with the best European experience. The launch of the current SISTRI, which has demonstrated during the trial that it is an unmanageable, ineffective and completely unsuitable system for small and medium-sized enterprises, would force companies once again to bear bureaucratic burdens and improper costs. Finally, the time has come to act on the cut in expenditure: the expenditure of bureaucracy, unproductive expenditure, public expenditure and so on, and this is a necessary condition to leave more money in the pocket of the citizens of this State and to restart consumption. This is the time of greatest urgency. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and M5S]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u10	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u11	Mr President, good representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 201 of December 2011, the so-called Salva Italia, was the first measure of the Monti Government. In addition to heavy cuts in erial transfers to Regions, Provinces and Municipalities, under Article 13 it imposed the IMU from 2012, in place of the old ICI. Consequences? After three years the tax on the first house was reintroduced and more than doubled the tax burden on second houses, sheds, offices and shops. I would point out that on this occasion the government has turned the mayors into collectors, despite them. In fact, households and business owners, even where the first citizens were good at applying the basic rates, compared to 2011 they had to cope with increases well above 100%. Too bad that of the total revenue more than half took the road to Rome with one-way ticket. Compared to what has been argued on several occasions by the President of the Monti Council and, I must say, also by several representatives of the Democratic Party, always looking for scapegoats to whom we attribute birthrights, we of the North League reiterate once again, here and with force, that this IMU has maintained only the name compared to the IMU introduced in 2011 with the decree on municipal federalism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups and Senator Companione]] Our IMU, that of the Government Lega Nord and PdL, not only had to start from 2014, but had a simplistic purpose, did not touch the first houses and provided that the revenue remained in the municipal houses. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Companione]] This IMU is instead a centralist gabella! But the decree saves Italy of December 2011 has not finished to amaze. With Article 14, in fact, it also introduced the TARES (the tax on waste and services), with effect from 1 January 2013. So this year, families, businesses, artisans, shopkeepers and freelancers, in addition to the increase in VAT from 21 to 22%, which will take place next summer, will also have to deal with this new jump that replaces the old TARSU and the old TIA. TARES, let us be clear, is a new stalemate for citizens and businesses already struggling with many economic difficulties. TARES provides for unsustainable increases for certain entrepreneurial activities, and in particular risks putting some categories of already overly vexed traders on the brink. Some examples: to have the same service of urban hygiene restaurants, bars, fruit farmers, florists will suffer increases of the order of 300-400 percent; many of them in this period of economic crisis will choose closure. Homes of care and rest will increase even by 600-700 percent: the shelter lines will skyrocket. Who's gonna pay them? Most likely the municipal administrations will still be involved. In the TARES there are two tax components: a tax linked to the coverage of the costs of the waste management service that comes from the old TARSU and TIA through a new articulation, which also provides for the extension of the tax even to the uncovered areas. I would stress in this regard that the municipalities are still waiting for the interministerial regulation to be issued by 31 October 2012 and that it had to establish the criteria for identifying the cost of the service and for determining the tariff. As a second component of the tax, however, there is the tax related to the indivisible services of the municipality such as public lighting, maintenance of roads. With this tax, families and economic activities will have to pay an increase of 0,3 euro per square meter of dwelling, office, store owned. Lots of more money to pay. But the mockery is that the revenue from this increase does not remain in the municipal coffers to finance indivisible services, as the citizen is induced to think. Of the corresponding estimated revenue, estimated at around EUR 1 billion, state transfers to the Experimental Rebalancing Fund have been reduced, which, in the meantime, for many municipalities (watch the virtuous ones), although transformed into a Solidarity Fund, is reduced to a few change if not almost zeroed. Therefore, even on this occasion, as a success for the IMU, mayors are called to play the role of tax collector on behalf of the State, despite them, also taking on the risk of inevitable insolvencies since many citizens will no longer be able to pay. For the Northern League, for the part concerning the TARES, it is quite insufficient as decided last Saturday by the Council of Ministers with the so-called decree unlocks debts of public administrations. Only for 2013 was the payment of the full EUR 0.3 per square metre surcharge to be slipped together with the final payment of the tax. Only positive note is that this increase - but only for this year - will be paid by the citizen directly to the State and not to the municipalities avoiding the risk of insolvency. Basically, it's the umpteenth mockery. Like the two subsequent postponements of the payment of the first instalment initially planned in January; one first time in April and then the second on 1 July 2013. Two referrals with the clear taste of electoral move. It is clear that to charge the TARES in the vicinity of the recent political elections would certainly not have helped the list Civic Choice of Prime Minister Monti, let alone those parties - all except the North League - that had voted the TARES with the save Italy and that today as for the IMU are putting the reverse. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] TARES should be repealed. In the alternative, it must be postponed in its entirety for one or two years, subjecting it to a decisive revision. To the limit (and on this point I draw the attention of the representatives of the Government), understanding the needs of coverage of the budget of the State, is confirmed for 2013 only the tax relative to the increase of 0,3 euros per square meter, but you absolutely return the part of tax relative to the service waste that is the cause of the senseless increases for some economic categories. The partial postponement as conceived in the decree-law will only worsen the burden of end-of-year taxes that will represent a real bloodbath for families and businesses. This year between balance TARES and IMU (the latter in several municipalities probably increased compared to 2012) certainly for many workers will not suffice the thirteenth. For many entrepreneurs, however, also dealing with IRES and IRPEF, the closing spectrum will be even closer. Illustrated President Grasso, among the mayors you mentioned in your inaugural speech on 16 March there is a great deal of concern for the community they administer. Until ten days ago I was one of them, so I know what I'm talking about. After the heavy cuts 2012 and 2013, after the negative effect of the IMU, today we also have the TARES that will impact negatively with consequences on the social that will weigh on the municipalities. So, please, let's do this. The Group of the North League reiterates as a disgrace the economic policy of the Monti Government which, as for the TARES, arbitrarily chooses to stifle businesses and citizens with unacceptable taxes. Too many taxes do not lead to development, but to consumption depression, GDP decline and therefore recession. These taxes only temporarily fill the greedy coffers of the central state, which will soon be emptied again due to the excessive and persistent unproductive spending of many territories and sectors of the state. It is here, on the excessive expenses - as every good father of a family would - that we must intervene in a sense of equity, with the introduction of standard needs and costs. But this - we know - is the recipe for federalism that has been shelved by the Monti Government in the last eighteen months. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Iurlar and Piccoli Senators. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we feel that we are witnessing a film that has already been seen, where only one is the defendant in the new judgment: the Monti Government, which would be the cause of all evils. It seems that the election campaign is endless and must never end, an election campaign in which we should have understood also the reason why we are in the situation we arrived in November 2011, with an Italy on the edge of the abyss and a messy and confused municipal fiscal federalism that has brought the municipalities to their knees. Perhaps we forget - says one who has spent almost all of his institutional life in local administrations - that he has been massacred by decisions taken by those who have governed us for almost ten years. That is the reality. The film is another: it's what happened in the last few months. Meanwhile, I would like to acknowledge and appreciate the decision taken the other day by the Government to solve a problem that would have been dramatic for the companies and that would have put tens of thousands of workers in the waste collection and disposal sector at risk and in difficulty the municipal administrations (it did not clearly clarify what the responsibilities were, now clarified), while at the same time it has given time to be able to deepen and verify the solutions for a problem dear to everyone, and not only to the North League and those who have ruled us for eight of the last ten years. It would be good if in a exhausted Italy everyone not only took responsibility for the need for greater cohesion but understood well why today we live in this reality, which has not been born in the last six months or in the last year, much less between Saturday and today. I say this as a former mayor, from one who had already decided ten years ago to bring its municipality closer to the payment of one hundred percent of the waste collection and disposal service, only condition to really make those policies in favour of the environment, to finance the separate collection [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] , in order to be able to finance proper disposal, environmentally friendly and in line with European standards also for our country. It would be right to make a reflection from here to the end of the year, a reflection that the Government has wished and that will probably not go forward, because the wish of everyone in this House I hope is that we will soon be able to have an Executive that can really deal with the problems of the country with great continuity and with the certainty of giving medium and long-term answers, which are those that at least 80% of Italians, not to say 100%, expect. Let us take this opportunity to make a real reflection, meanwhile to overcome - I repeat - that messy and confused federalism sketched out in the final phase of the last legislature, which does not take into account the needs neither of the citizens nor even less of the local administrations and the need to re-found this country on the local autonomy. The second element must be the merit of the TARES of the future. In the meantime, we must turn the concept upside down: compared to a proper service that tends to cover the cost of a hundred percent, one must understand what is the fundamental element. Then we want to affirm the principle that TARES, so that it does not become a hidden asset (as has already been said), must take into account the production of waste and the social corrections that must be introduced. It must take account not only of areas especially in enterprises, but also of the actual employment of premises and the need for standard costs. The reference, also made by my previous colleague, to standard costs is right. It is not possible that in certain areas of the country the cost of employees is 65,000 euros per year while in others, to do the same things, of 40,000. Account must also be taken of the need to liberalise the market more, to make it really more modern and more compatible with Community directives, to understand how we can relate to what is happening in other countries. It was not possible to ask this Government to revisit what has not happened in the last ten years. We know very well what the situation was not only regarding the collection and disposal of waste in November 2011: it's a pity that someone didn't notice what the situation was like before. But many citizens have noticed it: the Neapolitans submerged by waste, others also in northern Italy, with the landfills expired, or others with the need of survey, or others that have even in some cases determined the death of some people because not properly maintained (and this has not happened only in certain areas of the country). Since this is the center of our democracy, it is here that the general will of our country is formed, it is here that we must in the coming months, I hope, even with the establishment of the Commissions, face an issue that is not only the task of the Government, but much less of this Government, that has been able to do in this situation given what could be done, nothing more than what could be done. Certainly not everything that had to be done in the previous ten years has been done and we are paying for this today. I therefore welcome the decisions that have been taken, which at the moment help the system of self-government, the companies in the sector and also the citizens, but all together from here to December we must make a commitment to revisit this contribution in the light of new criteria and requirements in such a way as to make it a fair and fair tribute and that really takes into account also the difficulties in which the Italian population is fighting at this time. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Scalia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u14	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement Group calls for the abolition of the TARES tax without providing for subordinate assumptions and the adoption, for each body, of the timely environmental hygiene tariff, for three fundamental reasons. The first is environmental: from an environmental point of view, we believe that TARES is a dangerous step backwards in relation to the environmental hygiene tariff, which was certainly the system that best referred to the indicators of the European Union. Only last month, the European Commissioner was present at a meeting to judge the country's delays in achieving separate collection standards and, above all, recycling standards, and it was highlighted how important fiscal and legislative instruments are to induce the citizen to do better, better and better. The TIA was on this path, the TARSU is a step backwards. We believe that with the TARSU the concrete possibility of establishing a tariff, reserved only for those municipalities that have implemented systems for the precise measurement of the quantity of waste delivered to the public service, which can and must not, as it is written in the law, provide for the application of a tariff having a corresponding nature in place of the levy. The final objective of the transparent application of the European principle of the most polluter-pays principle is therefore not met and a sound fiscal policy is countered with the aim of guiding towards virtuous behaviour on the basis of the actual production of recycled waste sent for collection and disposal. Surely the right legal objective of making users pay for the exact use of the service and in the most precise way possible is lacking. In order to facilitate the escape from the emerging situation in the field of waste management and disposal, it is necessary to aim, and finally, for the reduction of production, the first Community objective, and for overcoming the already anti-Community policy of energy use, to focus decisively on their material exploitation, in order to finally consider rejection as a resource, rather than a cost. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This meets the objectives of the European Union and would finally allow us to move towards a zero-waste company, encouraging the best choice of citizens' purchase and production by companies. The introduction of TARES is contrary to the obligatory path of the evolutionary direction in the matter of waste, denying in fact the tariff transformation, the universally most effective and recognized way to make the reuse and recycling of waste economically competitive compared to the disposal operations. In the second analysis, in economic analysis, TARES is a weird tribute, as someone else said besides me. It is, on the one hand, a waste tax and, on the other, a tax for indivisible services. The increase envisaged for the indivisible services, which will go to the State (not even to the municipalities), is justified precisely by the need to cover the indivisible services. So, the TARES is the sum of two different taxes and looks dangerously like the IMU, as some other colleague said, because, once again, it is calculated on the square metre. Therefore, this is an intolerable and unfair increase because it is not representative of the taxpayer's contribution capacity, thereby undermining Article 53 of the Constitution. So, once again, an asset, yes, but not proportional: I absolutely want to emphasise this aspect. It should therefore be abolished. Let me turn to the third point. What do you do with this tax? All that is being done is to aggravate the situation of citizens and businesses by means of a new unfair tax. This hybrid form has, therefore, as a consequence a new form of taxation - a state tax on a local tax - in a historic moment of serious crisis, in which now all international observers and even the International Monetary Fund agree to affirm, to shout, to emphasize and to make us note that the crisis cannot be cured with austerity and with the additional tax pressure and that all the economic maneuvers in that sense have not produced so far any result in the sense of economic recovery, except a worsening of the lives of citizens and businesses. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators D'Alì and Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, if I were to draw a conclusion from the previous speeches, I would draw a very happy conclusion from it for the Italian citizens: the TARES is about to be abolished. There was not, in fact, any of the colleagues who preceded me on behalf of the Groups who did not show how this tax, as it has evolved in a whole series of parliamentary passages in the last parliamentary term and now also in the decree of the Government, is absolutely out of its original philosophy. In fact, waste tax is a service tax: TARES should have been an evolution of TIA, including other services along with the environmental hygiene tariff. In fact, it has become an additional capital tax, and this is more evident from the fact that the nominal fee that is charged to citizens for so-called indivisible services is also attributed to the State. But, then, to what extent do we ask the citizens who pay the services that the municipalities give them if - then - the proceeds of this revenue are transferred to the State? TARES must then be brought back to its original philosophy. Another detail from the institutional point of view is the fact that today, in this House, the government has sent a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to discuss TARES, while the Minister for the Environment should have come and told us what he intends to do about the integrated environmental tariff and the waste tariff. Therefore, this means precisely - as my colleague Mr Susta said - that in recent months we have to review the whole structure of TARES, to avoid this capital increase of 0,30 euros per square metre that, through this decree, is asked in exation in December and that it will weigh on the families, it will weigh on the enterprises, it will weigh on the services of the tertiary in an absolutely unsustainable way. (17.24) (Follow D'ALI'). For a long time now, ladies and gentlemen, we have exceeded that tax burden which leads to a recession, that tax threshold which leads to a contraction in consumption, a zero in investment, a weakening of the wealth and savings of households. Therefore this TARES must be abolished; in the months that separate us from December it must absolutely be revised and the increase of 0,30 euros must be eliminated. That is our opinion. At the same time, the TARES must be restructured through a careful indication of the parameters related to the service that is rendered, because it must not be left to the undisclosed superficiality of many municipalities that, even in the form of a tariff corresponding to the cost of the services, can impose absolutely excessive leaps. In fact, if the TARES initially provided for the municipal financial plan, today we can say that of these municipal financial plans only very few have been drawn up. Therefore, citizens face the payment of a jump without having the opportunity to know why they pay it, if not generically for the waste collection service, and they do not even have the opportunity to intervene. A short time ago the government representative said that the publication within 30 days of the TARES financial plan was to prevent citizens. I would have preferred to hear that this publication, absolutely due and preventive, could be used for any citizen's appeals, and you know how many appeals, how many so-called class actions so far the country is full against the problem of VAT on TIA. There are dozens and dozens of appeals and alas there are also dozens and dozens of solutions differentiated from province to province by tax commissions, because in our country unfortunately we also witness this differentiation of attitude of tax justice, in this case. The same collecting societies, the same municipal societies do not even know how to behave. So it would have been more useful if the government had also given us a precise address on the VAT discourse in the TIA and then on how it intends to deal with the VAT discourse on the TARES, because this is a behavioral way that we must define and that must not generate further disputes between citizens and institutions. In fact, by now we are only on this path: the institutions attack, the citizen is forced to defend himself; and when he can defend himself through a serene judgment he defends himself, when instead he cannot because the level of the tax pressure has reached untenable limits he defends himself alas not paying, thus generating an absolute difficulty for himself, for the consequences of that gesture not wanted of the lack of payment, and especially for the societies that have to manage the services. I think I have heard an important message from the previous speakers: this TARES must be abolished, this EUR 0.30 increase must be eliminated because it does not correspond to the original philosophy of the levy. I would just like to correct my colleague from the Arrigoni League: the postponement of the payment of the TARES to 1 July was not an initiative of the Government but was a will of the Parliament that the League also voted, on my proposal, in January of this year. And the proposal (let's read the parliamentary acts) was born of the need to give the new Government and the new Parliament the opportunity to profoundly modify the TARES. If the first instalment had been paid in April we would not have been able to intervene at this time on the TARES, on its structure, because that first instalment would have been inclusive of both the waste tariff and part of the revenue of the EUR 0.30 and therefore it would have been very difficult to go back. We are also opposed to the sub-order compared to the shift to 1 January 2014 of the entry into force of the TARES because we consider the TARES entirely to be revised. We could only accept this sub-order if, as I understand from the previous speeches, this Parliament will make an absolute commitment to modify the TARES within that period, avoiding the aggressor of the additional IMU - because this is actually the case - on citizens and businesses in the TARES instalment in December. As for the decree-law presented by the current Government, we cannot complain that it is precarious because precarious is the source of the decree, that is, the Government that currently sits on the benches that competes with it. Therefore, we cannot complain; as a Parliament, we must commit ourselves to taking action to change and prevent a very serious danger of 60 million citizens as well as the municipal companies implementing the services. Before, however, it is up to 60 million citizens, then out of 5 million companies considered all, with an irresponsible generalization, with respect to the work area, since it has not been considered that some companies with low turnover may need large areas, while others with high turnover may need small or small areas. If this is the commitment that we take today in front of Italian citizens (60 million citizens and 5 million commercial and productive companies) I believe that we can honour this commitment in the coming months with a very profound revision of this tax, with its zero in current terms and its reconstitution in terms attributable to the original philosophy. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, representative of the Government, I too take the guidance and positive cues from all the speeches that followed the communications of the representative of the Government. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party I welcome the measure presented by the Government, which puts us in a position to articulate a series of reflections that may be useful in the drafting of a systemic regulation that concerns separate collection or urban hygiene and collects a series of precise and precise addresses on the subject of TARES. First of all, I would like to stress that the PD Parliamentary Group, in its first motion for a resolution in this legislature, wanted to address the issue of TARES to the attention of the Government, anticipating the estimates that were subsequently provided by ISTAT on the tax burden, which reached very high levels at the end of 2012. During an informal meeting between senators at Parliament's buvette, we were able to exchange views and make a series of commitments to be requested from the Government. Madam President, I would therefore like to thank the senators who wanted to share with me motion No 1, in which they asked the Government to promote the adoption, as a matter of urgency, of measures to postpone the entry into force of the provisions relating to TARES on 1 January 2014, while allowing each municipality to apply, on a transitional basis and for the year 2013, the pre-existing system of mixed taxation (TARSU or environmental hygiene tariff, depending on how the municipalities have decided to proceed over these years). With this motion we asked the Government to reserve for subsequent measures a possible substantial revision of the entire discipline of the tax in question, also because we believe that the reduction of the tax burden on citizens is an issue that must concern us in the coming months and in the next work of this Parliament. So to the representative of the government we express an appreciation initially, because this provision puts us in a position to discuss the matter. Also in the motion, we committed the Government: "to provide, in the event of non-transferable (as happened) of the date of entry into force of the TARES, for the adoption of specific measures aimed at defining the time-limit of the three instalments of payment of the charge" and "to expressly provide, in the context of a possible emergency measure, that the authority competent for the approval of the annual financial plan... is the municipal council, without prejudice to the competence of a different authority on the basis of what may be provided for by other provisions in force in this matter." Dear Representative of the Government, these requests had and have a foundation. The first theme is the postponement to 2014. We appreciate the effort that has been made, but I think we have to work to make one more. I was mayor until October 2012 of a Municipality of Campania and therefore I know well, as a former mayor, that this measure will create problems to the budgets of the Municipalities, because presumably the collection will take place in 2013 and will find forms of its exhaustion or in any case exasperated forms of morosity in the within of 2014. Therefore, there will be a problem, both on the 2013 budget and on the final of the same year, which will be approved in 2014. I come to the second topic, on which we ask for a deepening and a moment of reflection. We know that this government had to introduce TARES because it found public accounts in complete disorder, with a fairly deep deficit. We also know, however, that this theme must be understood within a new need that Italian families are experiencing. If the tax burden has reached 52% - this is not an electoral campaign issue, but an objective issue, which each of us must reflect on - we believe that we must make an effort together, even if the balances of public finances are not consistent, in this Parliament, in this Senate of the Republic, to take the necessary measures and recover a figure equal to the revenue of TARES, that is, if I understand correctly, a billion euros. So we need to find this billion euro to prevent there being a tax burden on Italian households. I believe that we expect this kind of work in the coming months, if we have months to work. I say this because one of the feelings that maybe each of us is experiencing right now is the frustration that we can't start working on issues that affect people. I do not make it very long, trying to use as little time as possible than the ten minutes planned. We are ready to work on these issues and to welcome the various openings that I have heard in all the speeches, in order to reduce, together, the tax burden. In his speech, Senator Susta, who is a deep expert of local authorities, stated that he would take the necessary time to better articulate a number of measures relating to local taxation. The same thing Senator D'Alì did for the PdL. However, from the speeches of those who made the local administrator, as in the case of Senator Companione (I am his former mayor), and he experienced the difficulties of his own community, it is evident how we look at Parliament as a place where we can solve these problems. Madam President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am a freshman in the Senate. I was very impressed by a number of speeches in this House when we discussed the resignation of Senator Mangili. We have skinned our hands, each one of us, applauding this or that colleague, especially when talking about the bond of mandate. Constitutionally speaking and historically framing the meaning of that bond, each of us appreciated some interventions. I remember Senator Finocchiaro very well. But we still have a mandate, especially with regard to the citizens. That is the most serious bond that each of us feels, because it perceives, outside of these classrooms, what the degree of suffering of the people is. I believe that each of us must recover precisely this dimension, this role linked to the bond of mandate, without demagogies, without themes and campaign tones, in the awareness that each of us is here because we can make a contribution to the country. We feel that we can make this contribution to the country and we feel that we can recover, even with respect to the proposal that this decree will bring the Government to Parliament, the meaning of some words. If we want to recover the meaning of an expression that is dear to me, local autonomy, we must ensure that the revenue from municipal taxes remains with the municipalities, otherwise there will never be any local autonomy, because it is imposed by giving full meaning to these two words. Local autonomy implies that the tributes that the municipalities decide to put in place with respect to the services they provide are not only perceived and judged by the citizens through the vote, expressing or not their consent, but above all are linked to a regulation that rearranges the theme of autonomy. This is not so much in terms of a federalism that can find or not, in the implementing decrees, a form of statism less accentuated than what we have, but through that idea of mandate bond for which each of us, parliamentary or local administrator, first responds to the citizens of its own work. In this sense, as a parliamentary group we are in a position not only to appreciate the Government's efforts, but also to work together with all the parliamentary groups so that TARES can be reviewed and clarified, with a reorder on the subject of local autonomy. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Berger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u20	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first consideration we have to make is in which administrative environment we introduce this type of provision and if ever we could foresee the need to review this tribute in its content and in the forms through which it is collected, in relation to the weight it has in the operation of the local authorities in Italy also because of the structure of our public administration, now subject to a perennial pursuit of the new provision to be applied, without ever having the opportunity to better qualify its intervention and make its action more efficient, verifying through serious monitoring the difficulties it encounters in the application of the provisions, especially when these deal with the matter of taxes, taxation. The other consideration we have to make concerns the content of this provision. The Government intervenes only in order to regulate collection differently, intervenes only with respect to an emergency that it itself has created, intervenes only, therefore, on the modalities and not on the merit of this institute, which instead is necessary to do. Moreover, the combination of the various taxes on the collection, treatment and disposal of municipal waste had the function of calling the local authorities, but above all the citizens, because of the quality and quantity of the waste produced, and therefore this institute could have contained in itself, of course, important methods of collection, but also of recognition of the virtuous behaviour of local authorities and citizens, families and companies that otherwise also operate in the production of waste. This has not been done, but it can be done, because we have the opportunity to review not only the forms of collection of this tax, but also to review its content and update it with respect to the new ecological sensitivity found among the populations, families, businesses and also in many local administrations. The last point concerns the scale of taxation - which is aggravated by this institution - which must bear companies, workers and families, and which is no longer tolerable. Moreover, as it is set up and precisely because of the nature that has been given to it, there is a poor or however doubtful positive relapse also in the management of this game, which is an important match for all the local Italian authorities, for all the Italian municipalities. These are the important points for us: the administrative environment where these new provisions are introduced; the assessment that we give of the need to continually review the rules adopted in this area, in order to make them appropriate to the possibility of acting of local authorities and administrative apparatus; the also educational nature that must have the tax on waste, because we have to think of a country that produces less waste and produces less hazardous waste. Finally, there is the question of the ability to support the additional tax burden introduced by this institution. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u22	I declare closed the debate on the information given by the State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Polillo, whom I thank for his helpfulness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u25	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor to highlight also in this House the very serious situation that the adverse weather phenomena of recent days have caused on the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines, with serious hydrogeological disruptions, with roads collapsed from the Massese. In particular, the situation is dramatic in Parma, especially in Val Parma and Val Parmossa but also in Valtaro, where the interruptions are very serious, and where the risk also for the production system, especially for that of the ham factories, is very serious, because the interruption of the circulation makes the continuation of the activity problematic. The request for an emergency state has been made. Unfortunately, the representative of the Government has just left, but I would like to invest the whole House and the Presidency in the need for this request to be readily accepted, because there is also a need to have the financial resources readily available.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u28	FUCKSIA (M5S). Very illustrious President, ladies senators and senators, I would like to invite this House to a moment of reflection on the tragic episode that took place in Civitanova Marche last weekend, where a family of three people, a couple and a brother, cried out their despair, loneliness, their shame in the face of poverty, our deaf and dumbness in the face of the real needs of the citizens and their difficulty in asking, with a truly extreme gesture. I believe that we should rethink the social state, because today the state is either absent or harassing and goes against the citizen, and in any case, even when promoting the protection of rights, it often does so with forty-year-old instruments that are no longer adapted to current needs. It is even more serious that this has happened in the Marches, a region that until recently was an economic model of small and medium-sized enterprise grown on families, on workers who were loyal to companies, a model that has also been exported at European level. Now, because of the crisis, diversification has taken place and there is a district economy, with the household appliances, paper, fishing, manufacturing, footwear and furniture sectors. However, this diversification has not been sufficient to stem the crisis. I call for a concrete act of presence, because that is what the citizens are asking us to do. The citizens feel an absent policy: we talk about MES and fiscal compact, but I want to see what are the concrete scenarios that involve people in these terms. In fact, Italy was a poor country, but it was not ashamed of poverty, because there was a desire for ransom and a expectation of hope: a hope that has failed today. We have a moral, ethical and political duty to trust people and find new tools. First of all, the Senators of the Marches, all of them, to be promoters, all, of a new project that seizes the possibilities to get out of the crisis, and do so together with all the citizens and with the most enlightened and far-sighted entrepreneurs, because despite the crisis there is still someone who holds, we still have excellences. I invite you to invest in this, to put your face on it and to follow up on this commitment by inviting all the other regions to do the same. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u31	MERLONI (SCPI). Madam President, I think that the message must be taken from all of us, not just from my colleagues in the Marches, but from all my colleagues in the Senate. Condolence and understanding are not enough to express the deepest bitterness towards the tragedy that occurred last week. Three lives have been broken by despair, fear of the future, shame and withdrawal of dignity: it is a situation that must not be lived and it is not right that we live. The feeling of abandonment that gripes those who lose their jobs when they are old enough to hope for a second chance or the impossibility to cope with everyday life after years of work and sacrifices are situations that can lead to extreme gestures that naturally leave breathless and speechless. I believe that it is our great responsibility at this moment to do everything possible for the Italian system to start again through projects that create employment and work, believing and giving confidence to our companies. Our companies are the productive fabric of the country and therefore the engine of the country that can make Italy return to growth. To do this, there is a need for great responsibility and stability at the political level. We must overcome ideological fences, preconceived positions and know that Italy and the real economy can no longer wait for the times of politics. [[Applause from the SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u34	FABBRI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I welcome the invitation of my previous colleagues to show solidarity with the three victims of a crisis that has been going on for years in our region and particularly in Civitanova Marche. Le Marche - and I address my colleague Fucksia - do not have a different characterization from that of the rest of the Italian territory, noted that the economic fabric is composed, as the senator recalled, of small and very small enterprises that for five years have been trying to fight a crisis that objectively is exhausted compared to every possibility. Allow me, however, to emphasize the easy exploitation of a pain that has not only involved that family, because, as more often recalled, there are many painful events that we have witnessed that have seen us, as a policy, attentive but helpless compared to the finding of solutions that we are looking for. Therefore, the solidarity of the Democratic Party is total and I believe not only of the citizens and citizens of our Region, in particular of the Municipality of Civitanova Marche. The hope and the invitation is that of maximum solidarity, to avoid slogans that do not serve, to ensure that politics plays its role, which is to seek solutions to help this country get out of a crisis that has been going on for too long. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u37	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, on behalf of the Senators of the Left, Ecology and Freedom and the Mixed Group, I would like to express all the solidarity and also the pain for what has happened. The other Members have rightly used the word 'victims', because that is exactly what happened. I believe that we today, rather than pushing on who knows what great economic analysis, should first of all make a commitment, because the decision that led to this gesture two men and a woman derives not only from despair, but also from a total lack of hope in the future, of help, of solidarity and of concrete acts on the part of those who have the responsibilities for it. By the way, one of the victims was exodus, and I want to say that because you have to call things by their name. In the special commission tomorrow we will examine a draft decree on this matter; I call on all, as a concrete act of solidarity and condolences to face despair, to make concrete acts that can change the situation of despair that has come to be created in the country. This is not just about general issues, it is not just about the crisis that is attacking everyone: there are also - alas - the very precise responsibilities of those who have caused certain situations. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u39	CERONI (PdL) has the right to do so. Madam President, I would like to join in the words spoken by my fellow Members in relation to the tragedy that struck a family in the Marche region with the suicide of three people. I believe that this event calls for serious reflection on politics. It is true that these cases of difficulties are now frequent throughout Italy and also in our Region, where the economic crisis is taking on truly dramatic dimensions, but problems such as these must also be addressed by local communities. In the municipalities there are social services that have to deal in some way with situations of difficulty such as the one that had the protagonist of the family of Civitanova Marche. I hope that in future there will be greater sensitivity to these issues and that politics will not waste any more time and address the real problems of this country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u40	[[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u41	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-10.ana.u42	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 10 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6 p.m.
