ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 16 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 10.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council of 22 May I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot begin this speech this morning without giving a moved thought to the victims of the tornado that devastated the United States a few hours ago. It is a thought that I naturally address - I think - on behalf of everyone. It's a sad day for a friendly country in Italy. It's a sad day for all of us. The fate of Italy and that of Europe are linked to each other; inevitably linked. I said that in this very Chamber just under a month ago, demanding your confidence. Two destinies that unite, two stories that find meaning and perspective only if united: it is about the construction of our future, for this generation and for those to come; it is about our being a community, in a world in continuous and often dramatic transformation. We have all wanted this debate because Europe deserves it, but above all it is the peoples of Europe, the same people today who face the most appalling economic and democratic crisis of recent times, who deserve it. What they do not deserve is, on the other hand, all that has to do with the limits of today's Europe: the approximations of a public debate nailed to partial readings, the tensions of a political confrontation often made up of prejudiceal positions. No other place lends itself better than the Parliament of the Republic, an expression of popular sovereignty, to the very difficult task of trying to restore dignity, truth and warmth to the story about the Europe of the peoples. It is a task that affects all of us and that we have the responsibility to carry out to the full, respectful of each of their respective roles, but only in function and only in the general interest of the country. The comparison between the Government and Parliament on European policy is an obligation established by the law passed by the Chambers last year, thanks, among other things, to the impetus of Minister Moavero Milanesi, who is not here today because he is engaged in the General Affairs Council in Brussels precisely in the preparation of the Summit tomorrow. Also in the recent past, Parliament has proved to be valuable in defining the Italian position in Europe. For all these reasons, today I intend to explain to you the objectives of the Government for the next European appointments. Above all, however, I want and want to listen to your solicitations and indications: it is a path that we must take together. The occasion is tomorrow's extraordinary European Council. Since the day of the vote of confidence, which you wanted to agree to, I have wanted to establish a series of contacts with the summits of the Union institutions and with some of the main partners. The same has been done by my fellow ministers with more direct competence in European matters. Berlin, Paris, Brussels, Madrid, Warsaw, soon London. Everywhere to say that Europe and European politics are the compass of this Government's action; everywhere to repeat that a very large part of the problems that our country faces, and that have often legitimately distressed the international community can be solved more effectively with European solutions. Italian questions have a very often European answer, however, provided that Europe itself is finally able to offer an environment that broadens and supports the capacity of national policy and does not translate into a cage of constraints, rules and procedures that want to safeguard the trust of one another but that often limit the action of all: families, citizens, small and large enterprises. At all the meetings I have and have illustrated the European and European nature of the Government; we have clarified to the interlocutors our firm commitment to respect the discipline of public finances and reiterated the desire to obtain the closure of the excessive deficit procedure launched against Italy in 2009. This is an essential prerequisite for us: to seek within the framework of European public finance, and not outside it, let alone against it, the spaces for an economic policy devoted to growth and the creation of new jobs. The decree-law approved last Friday by the Government summarizes this will. We have suspended the payment of the June instalment of the IMU, committing ourselves to a wider reform of the taxation burden on the house by the end of August and to a general policy of relaunching the building in an increasingly environmentally compatible logic. We have refinanced the integration fund by way of derogation for about EUR 1 billion, trying to return oxygen to so many and too many families on the verge of despair. We have given a first and important signal of attention to the so-called precarious workers of the public administration. We have eliminated, not on a personal basis but once and for all, the double salary of the Ministers of Parliament, obviously from that of the President-in-Office of the Council. All this, keeping firm the balances and budgetary objectives set out in the Economic and Financial Document. I hope that on this basis too, the European Commission will decide on 29 May to repeal the excessive deficit procedure for Italy: it would be a very important signal that a new course is being drawn for Italy and for Europe, and that we can begin, strong in the lesson of past mistakes but more determined than ever, to do well. Why is exiting the procedure a priority for us? First of all, because changing the target one step away from the goal would mean frustrating the very heavy sacrifices made by citizens since 2011 and raising doubts in the European markets and institutions about the effectiveness of our consolidation action. This would bring Italy once again under consideration, at the last bank, the object of reproach and of shoulders, not to mention the foreseeable repercussions on the cost of financing sovereign debt, a debt that weighs like a boulder on our economy. Can we afford this? I say no, we can't. And I also say this because I recognize myself in a generation that pays dearly the weight of waste and wrong choices, made in good and bad faith by previous generations. None of us wants to put on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren a burden that will prejudice for decades and decades the choices of life and work, the opportunities to give meaning to ourselves and to their potentialities, the opportunity to feel happy and fulfilled; I am sure that none of us in this House wants it, and that is beyond the differences of opinion and political origin that we are aware of and will continue to divide. On the contrary, leaving the procedure will allow Italy to benefit from lower interest rates on government bonds and, therefore, to have more resources to really get the Italian economy and society back on track. This will help small and medium-sized enterprises to enter a credit market today too often asphyxiating. Secondly, being among the virtuous countries will allow us to take advantage of the new interpretation of the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, which gives greater scope for action to feed productive public investment and human capital when linked to structural reforms or measures that increase potential growth. A very current example of this flexibility is the payment of debts due by the public administration, which will allow liquidity to be introduced into the economy and, therefore, to breathe breath in companies: a transaction that we want to accelerate and to which we give priority. Finally, we can count on the dividend of greater credibility. Only those who have the cards in order can aim to direct Europe's political choices in the direction closest to their own interests and values. Italy will thus be able to have a dual political force: that resulting from the solidity of a large majority in Parliament, in support of the Government and the lines of European policy, and that which comes from maintaining its budgetary and economic policy in order. This political force must be able to tell and make our interlocutors weigh: to all of them I wanted to make it clear that we are not interested in the shortcuts of an abstract and fashionable Europeanism, of those who wave the flag of the Union but then goes on for inertia, between intergovernmental pushes or following roads and projects undertaken simply by others. Italy cares about Europe and is, by history and tradition, in the heart of Europe, but today's Europe is not enough: we want much more and much better, and for it we will try to make ourselves the first interpreters of an active Europeanism: of proposal and of change. We will try to wave the flag of a Europe that builds the future and gives concrete, tangible and lasting answers. Europe, when defining policies for growth and job creation, must invest as much energy as it has devoted to the modulation of a system of rules to put the public finances and economic policies of its Member States under control. Europe must follow the actual words. We cannot - as in the case of the Banking Union or the Growth Pact - take decisions, announce targets, set timetables and then let months pass without concrete results. Europe is also in a crisis of legitimacy because it is in a crisis of concrete effectiveness. We need a Europe that is less slow in transposing political innovations and in trying new ways than the ones that have already been beaten. We do not need to upset the Treaties: we are blocked, while others (the United States and Japan in the lead) take unconventional political first steps, without dogmas or procedural casts. The ECB, which launched long-term refinancing instruments and then the final monetary operations (MTOs) in the right time and manner, acted with caution and innovation capacity. The ECB is also rightly being looked at today in the search for solutions that support credit to businesses, countering the fragmentation of financial markets and bottlenecks that distort the transmission mechanisms of monetary policy. These are, therefore, the European policy guidelines that I have begun to draw in my comparison with our partners. But I come now to the more specific issues of tomorrow's European Council. As you know, this is a thematic summit on two key issues for competitiveness and growth in Europe: combating tax evasion and international fraud and promoting a stronger European energy policy. I shall begin with the latter, first of all. The Council will return to energy issues tomorrow, two years after the February 2011 meeting, to assess progress in building a European energy policy and address in particular four points: the completion of the internal energy market from the point of view of both regulation and physical infrastructure of network interconnection, including smart grids; the promotion of investment, including in the framework of the establishment of a framework for climate change and energy policies after 2020; the diversification of sources of supply and the exploitation of energy sources produced in Europe; energy efficiency. The absolute priority in the field of energy for us remains the development of renewable sources. The red thread that binds all the other issues is the reduction of energy prices, as well as of course the contribution of energy policy to the competitiveness of the entire economy, Italian and European. This is a far-reaching development: in fact, in the European energy agenda, expressions such as competitiveness, costs for families and businesses and attention to vulnerable people are now fully legitimate. This is an important development for our country, since today we still have a higher cost of energy than that of all other European partners and our international competitors. We will also insist that there be a European policy of support for infrastructure investment and for the completion of interconnections, and a strong commitment to the needs of energy-intensive companies. We will call for a realistic climate change policy after 2020 and instead for an open and non-criminating attitude to the exploitation of energy sources produced in Europe, such as shale gas. We will emphasise the need for progress on energy efficiency, an area in which Italy has an undeniable leadership and experience. The proposal, recently put forward in the European Commission's Green Paper on the 2030 framework for energy and climate policies, to merge renewable energy production measures with a single objective, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to increase energy efficiency, which is currently being explained in the three-fold so-called 20-20-20 target. The European Council will then discuss - second major issue - the fight against fraud and international tax evasion. In this difficult period in which all Member States are demanding heavy sacrifices from their citizens for the consolidation of public finances, the fight against tax evasion and fraud is first and foremost a moral imperative, an unavoidable duty, without forgetting that this is an essential element in ensuring fairness and confidence in the efficiency of the tax system. The central aspect of the debate tomorrow will be the affirmation of the principle of automatic exchange of tax information as a standard of transparency in relations between Member States within the Union and between the Union and third countries. It is a question of extending cooperation between tax authorities in this area, including all types of income through a revision of the 2011 Directive on administrative cooperation. This relates to the taxation of savings income received by persons resident in other Member States. The European Council will have to give the Commission a mandate to open negotiations with third countries to strengthen tax cooperation agreements. On the other hand, the issue of the revision of the directive on the taxation of savings income remains on the table, on which, as is well known, there are different sensitivities in the Union: in particular, it is discussed whether or not to make progress in Community legislation subject to the progress made in the negotiation on the revision of the agreements on the taxation of savings with other European third countries, such as Switzerland, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco and San Marino. These are issues on which we do not want further delays or shyness. We want the Council to decide on a number of priorities for action for the future in the area of tax evasion and fraud, starting with the implementation of the Commission's action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud presented in December 2012 and recommendations to Member States on aggressive tax practices and good tax governance vis-à-vis third countries. Furthermore, we believe that the Council should give the political impetus to speed up the adoption of initiatives that have been under discussion for some time, such as the VAT anti-fraud package, which includes two proposals for directives on the introduction, respectively, of a rapid reaction mechanism to take measures to combat new sudden fraud and the optional application of the reverse charge mechanism in certain sectors exposed to fraud. Finally, a new work site will open up as regards taxation aspects in the digital economy. The Government fully supports the objective of strengthening instruments to combat fraud and international tax evasion. The problem is increasingly global, and therefore requires coordinated responses at international level. That is why the Union must promote the principles of fiscal transparency and demonstrate its leadership by implementing effective measures to combat fraud and evasion. Shyness is no longer allowed on these issues. Action is needed to avoid evasion and fraud and to combat money laundering in a specific way within the Union and in relations with third countries, through the identification of actual beneficiaries, including in the presence of companies, trusts or foundations. We also want the European Council to send a clear message on the recognition of automatic exchange of information as a standard of transparency in tax matters at European level, on the need for effective administrative cooperation by all European states and on the Union's willingness to promote developments at global level. If we have developments in this area, the fight against evasion within our country will be more effective, a chronic scourge that we will fight without truce and without failure. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, allow me to mention some of the issues that will mark the next European events after the summit tomorrow and which are at the heart of the resolutions tabled by the parliamentary groups. The European Council of 27 and 28 June, the last of this semester, will close precisely a European semester of economic policy coordination and will talk about the future of Economic and Monetary Union. It cannot and must not become a Council of routine, of rite, of tired procedure, of completion of a bureaucratic path: a photo opportunity faded and with tired smiles and pulled does not serve anyone, least to Italy. On the contrary, we need a full and very concrete result, proof that the European Union is serious this time and seriously takes the real problems of millions of European citizens, starting with young people who are out of work. That is also why, immediately after tomorrow's summit, I shall write a letter to the President of the European Council, Mr Van Rompuy, asking for the June European Council to discuss the fight against youth unemployment. I want to give a sense of urgency: it is a drama that has very high social and political costs. Europe cannot have a future unless it gives hope to those who have to build and inhabit this future. This time we need concrete measures, easy to explain and immediate to verify, that make the difference immediately, in the short term. For example, it is necessary to identify the tools for implementing the Youth Guarantee for young people in the Member States as soon as possible. This is why the aim must be to implement the new Youth Employment Initiative as quickly as possible and to increase its funding in the future. There is a need to recognise areas of action in national public finances so that Member States can invest adequate resources in active labour policies, in reducing labour taxes and in creating new jobs for young people. The mobility of young people in a genuine European labour market must be encouraged. European decisions will thus be the framework within which we will coordinate national measures against unemployment, the same measures that Minister Giovannini is developing precisely these days. We will also support the importance of the real economy and the competitiveness of European industry, small and medium-sized enterprises at the forefront, as an essential factor for economic growth and Europe's position in the global system. We will support the objective, launched by the European Commission and Vice-President Tajani, of bringing the contribution of European manufacturing industry to GDP from current 16% to 20% by 2020. We will fight for real progress in implementing the road map towards genuine economic and monetary union. We will call for certain progress and times for the completion of the banking union, which includes, first of all, the protection of savers and a single banking crisis resolution mechanism. Unity therefore in the field of currency, financial structures, economic policies aimed at work and development. All this, however, is not enough, or at least is not enough if it is not framed within the framework of the great and historic objective of greater political integration and genuine democratic legitimacy. Without the United States of Europe, any progress, even the most ambitious and tiring, risks being emptied of sense. Without the United States of Europe the future of the peoples of Europe, as well as of the Community institutions, remains a chimera: very difficult to predict, impossible to tell as the new ideality of our time to the public opinions of the Continent. In recent days we have seen a renewal of the debate on the political dimension of the Union in several Member States; also in Italy authoritative voices - the first: that of Minister Emma Bonino - have intervened in this field: the signal that European policy is finally back on the move in this direction. This is the signal that this is the time when Europe needs Italy and its genuine and ambitious Europeanism. In the months leading up to the next European elections we will play everything to change direction and build a Europe different from that that in recent years has made so much Euroscepticism, not only (but also) in our country. Italy must help to write this new plot of the history of the European Union. With ideas, vision, proposals, ability to mediate and to weave alliances, also in view of the important Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2014. All this, ladies and gentlemen, and I shall conclude, can happen if the Government does its utmost, as we intend to do and how we will do it. But this will only become a reality if the citizens, and therefore Parliament, representing them, are the protagonists, as can and must happen in this House today. [[Applause from the PD, SCP, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) groups - PSI, PdL and LN-Aut, GAL and PdL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u6	I say that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u7	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators and citizens, the objective of the debate on energy issues at the European Council on 22 May should be to promote growth, employment and competitiveness. In recent years the debate on energy policy objectives and instruments has considerably intensified. In fact, there has been a growing concern about the high prices of oil and natural gas, the dependence of the countries of the European Union on imports of hydrocarbons from a limited number of countries and, above all, the warming of the planet... (Brusio). Mr President, I apologise for interrupting my speech because I would like some discipline and order, if possible. I'd like to make up for the time available. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u8	Let us say that the House is not deaf.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). The future will be marked by the inevitable depletion of oil, gas and coal: believing that fossil sources are still available in large quantities is a short-sighted vision and even more so in the light of the reading of the document prepared by the European Commission, in anticipation of the forthcoming European Council, in which it says: The dependence of Europe on imports of fossil fuels is increasing, the United States which were initially importers is about to become net exporters of gas. The differences in electricity prices are largely determined by fossil fuel prices and the recent recovery in domestic oil and gas production in the US, in particular shale gas, is leading to a growing gap between industrial energy prices in the European Union and those in the United States. In 2012, industrial gas prices in the United States were more than four times lower than European prices, leading to a loss of competitiveness of European companies. The document clearly says nothing about the environmental cost of the use to extract shale gas, nor how harmful this technique is for water resources to be expressly prohibited in many countries. More worryingly enough, as gas production grows, the US no longer knows what to do with coal produced and ends up exporting it to Europe, where the States still reserve a good share of energy production for coal (about 17%), leading to an increase in CO2 production in the old continent. The European Commission argues that Europe's strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy depends essentially on the adoption of an energy efficiency programme, the creation of competitive markets, the adoption of cheaper, more efficient and reliable energy technologies and, finally, the development of electricity production from renewable sources. It is claimed that investment in renewable energy can potentially create 3 million new jobs by 2020 and that national support schemes have made a decisive contribution to the growth in the use of renewable energy sources, but that in some States sudden changes in support schemes have contributed to uncertainty among investors. Precisely these statements prompt us to ask what position the Italian Government intends to take in relation to the proposals, just mentioned, made by the European Commission, in the light of the choices made in the last year, in particular with respect to the cut to the incentives to photovoltaics (with the Fifth Conto energy, in fact, have produced effects strongly destabilising for the entire sector, among other things already strongly hit previously by numerous changes to the incentive system that have lowered the tariffs and increased the bureaucracy, generating considerable uncertainty for the investments in the market); to the stable maintenance of the share of coal used for energy purposes, without declaring the will to dispose of the plants, beginning with the most polluting ones; to the will to start a new plan of drilling for oil and gas throughout the peninsula and at sea (and my Sicily knows something about it); to the scandalous mechanism of the capacity payment (pray a compensation for the availability to supply energy and not for the energy provided) to the fuel oil plants and to a similar measure planned for the gas plants, giving benefits and privileges difficult then to remove and modify. What will be the Italian position in the European Council on these which are, unfortunately, the main contents of the document of Italian Energy Strategy, adopted by interministerial decree by a Government resigned on March 8, 2013? What will be the position of the Italian Government, since it has on its side a document that contrasts with the indications coming from the European context? It is a document that: it does not have an ambitious time horizon, but above all no ambitious objective; it has not made a choice in favour of a model based on renewables and energy efficiency; it is a primary source of energy that gives the greatest benefits in terms of cost result, as requested at European level and as asked, for some time now, by all citizens of common sense; it does not identify a real strategy of transition towards the complete substitution of fossil sources in the production of primary energy; it has nothing to reduce the contribution in bills to be paid to all Italians to keep alive obsolete and highly polluting plants. We believe it is essential to speed up the country's path towards the adoption of distributed energy systems, small producers-consumers that become hubs of a network that is no longer one-way, but a real intelligent network. To make the most of the investments made by the community in renewables, it is necessary to invest in smart grids and storage systems. Electricity storage systems from renewable sources need to be set up to balance the natural temporal discontinuity of this source of energy. In order to complete the liberalisation of the internal energy market, it is necessary to ensure that distribution is truly separated from sales. Companies with a large number of users, former monopolists in particular, could be prohibited from obtaining power grid management concessions when they have a percentage of users, including through subsidiaries or subsidiaries, higher than, for example, 20%. In this way, Mr President, the conflicts of interest which inevitably arise in a system in which the seller and the manager are in fact the same would be limited. As far as gas is concerned, the removal of gaseous hydrocarbons from the subsoil must be reduced to zero. I conclude by quoting a sentence from Jeremy Rifkin: Italy should be the Saudi Arabia of renewable energy. No European country has your resources: the sun, the strength of the sea, the wind, the mountains for hydroelectric power stations. Yet many other states, from Germany to the Scandinavian countries, are further ahead. Mr President, that is our reflection. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Albano, Ginetti and Cervellini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u10	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this brief speech I would like to make a specific reference to the European Council of tomorrow, which, in addition to the issues relating to energy and taxation, as has been pointed out, is of great importance for the growth and competitiveness of the European economy, and also provides for an analysis to be carried out on the progress of the work on deepening economic and monetary union. Although it is not planned to adopt specific conclusions on this issue, I think that the debate that will take place tomorrow will still be important, even in view of the June summit, for many crucial aspects, as has been mentioned, and in view of the objectives of our policy in Europe, which you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, expressed in your speech. I would therefore like to focus on this issue of deepening economic and monetary union. We know how the creation of the single European currency, in many ways a revolutionary reform, is actually a process that remains halfway through. Monetary union has become fully operational, but it has not been accompanied by an economic union with its instruments and policies, which remain largely on paper. The underlying cause of all that we are going through, and therefore of the crisis, is largely derived from this unfinished process. Now, the solution is certainly not to go back, as the advocates of the exit from the euro claim, without realizing the very heavy costs that would result for all, including debtor countries and creditors: the only way out is to move forward; it is to complete the process of economic and monetary union as quickly as possible. In this respect, in November last year, the European Commission had proposed a kind of road map, a detailed road, made up of steps necessary to complete a banking, economic and fiscal union. There were precise deadlines, but they found only partial and unsatisfactory confirmations in the conclusions of the December European Council last year, which merely approved guidelines for the completion of the same union. In fact it is necessary to give greater certainty to this path and to the deadlines to be met, and we have confirmation on many fronts. Given the limited time available to me, I shall confine myself to just one example, which you mentioned, which is precisely the banking union. I explain why: important steps have been taken, as we know, in terms of joint surveillance, which has been set up at the European Central Bank, but everything remains to be decided on the other two pillars of the union: the bank resolution mechanism, which must avoid contagion in dealing with any disruptions of credit institutions, and the common guarantee fund for bank deposits. We know how some countries, particularly Germany, argue that a single resolution authority can be set up, but we must wait for a change to the European Treaties. This can mean postponing any reform to an uncertain future, all the more so because, in the meantime, we are proposing a network of national resolution authorities with the support of equally national resources, which must therefore also have a domestic character. What's the risk? It is an agreement to move forward on the other two pillars with absolutely undefined deadlines, thus leading to any decision being postponed at the next summit in June. It is not a question of details, but of fundamental steps, since a resolution system would risk, if not at least approved in its direction, making the banking union another of the European processes left in half. Above all, it would not be able to determine the fundamental positive effects, which are to cut the umbilical cord between the crisis of banks and the crisis of sovereign debts, which is at the heart of the European crisis; all the more so since the postponement in Europe of the creation of a unified banking system to a not better specified future means today neglecting a fundamental fact: in many parts of the eurozone there are still very serious outbreaks of crises in the banking system, which are waiting to be faced. There is a phenomenon of financial fragmentation and credit crunch that characterizes many countries, including ours. It must be reiterated that what was decided in Cyprus in the resolution of the very serious banking crisis must remain an exception and cannot constitute a precedent. It is certainly not a question of playing any game of all countries against one, that is, Germany, as you rightly mentioned, but it is a question of working together so that we can affirm the good reasons that push in the direction of a common management of the progress of economic and monetary union. A solution from the legislative point of view is possible, and it can also be achieved quickly, waiting, then, for a reform of the Treaties. The important thing is to avoid a mere postponement and this could be repeated - I believe - already in the debate tomorrow. For our country, this is particularly important, since the measures you have rightly referred to (which are to call on Europe to formulate policies to revive growth and policies to promote youth employment) will be effective in the meantime as the process of banking union will continue to advance. From this point of view, I think it is important to avoid a risk: that of exchanging current stability, the favourable financial moment, for a permanent figure. The risk, however, is that, if we do not take these further steps in economic and monetary union, the time we are gaining will be wasted and we will soon be able to find ourselves in a situation of very serious disruption and difficulty, which would be extremely damaging to the reformulation of the policies of the Union to which you, Mr Letta, rightly referred. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u12	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u13	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is important to have maintained this good habit of the previous Government, President Monti, to report before the European Summits. I have to say quite frankly that I have found the President-in-Office of the Council's speech today very timely, serious, precise: a speech in which I recognize 100% on European policy issues. It is right that the government should sail on sight (this, however, is a debate that is particularly held in the newspapers), it is right to remove divisive elements (this seems to me more an act of intelligence than of cowardice), but the situation - as the President of the Republic reminded us yesterday - is distressing and dramatic. It is not only for Italian citizens, it is for citizens of all our continent. It is necessary, then, to identify a port for Italy, a polar star on which to recognize and recognize a mission for the Government of national service. I believe that this mission is there, that we heard this mission this morning in the words of the President-in-Office of the Council. And I cannot help but, Mr President (because you referred to a Europe of facts, which replaces the Euroretoric and the Europe of words), to remember the great foresight of the statesmen of Italian reconstruction. In recent days I have read some enlightening words by De Gasperi, who in 1954 spoke of CED (European Defence Community); I read them to you. De Gasperi wrote: "The construction of tools and technical means, administrative solutions are undoubtedly necessary," but the risk is to build only common administrations, without a higher political will." Without ideal impetus, Europe may appear to be an unnecessary and perhaps even oppressive superstructure. Prophetic words, if only we think of the anti-European populism that is ripening and that is the child not only of a bureaucratization of Europe, but also of a vision of the social crisis and of the work that exists in Europe centered only on the rigour of the accounts and often distracted with respect to the great economic and social issues. I think that he represented the whole Parliament - I would like to say, not only the majority but also the opposition - the President-in-Office of the Council this morning, when he told us that he will write a letter tomorrow to Van Rompuy so that concrete, easy-to-explain and rapid measures can be taken on the subject of the youth labour market in Europe. However, I would like to address an issue that is often removed (and I understand why it is removed: for a mixture of opportunism and convenience): what has been done over the past year to allow the President of the Council today to speak. The Monti Government has done its duty strictly. And, to think about it, the real reason for gratitude that Italy owes him is that he gave us back the chance to make us listen credibly. If we are talking today about the closure of the infringement procedure for excessive deficits, well, I believe that this is due to strict policies that the Italians themselves have paid and that perhaps - indeed, without perhaps - from the electoral point of view have certainly not been rewarding for those who have proposed them, as President of the Council, but they have been necessary policies. No one today can say that Italy has been absent, reluctant or unable to face the necessary sacrifices. And it is clear that today President Letta will sit at that table not only demanding greater incisiveness in the fight against tax evasion or fraud, not only by putting questions on the single energy market, which are fundamental for a country like Italy, dependent (at the levels we know) from the energy point of view: obviously there is the big issue - to which my colleague Guerrieri Paleotti mentioned earlier - of banking union as a fundamental prerequisite of a real monetary union. To break down investment for growth and employment from the calculation of national budgets is our goal, because only rigorously Europe dies, Italy dies. But, if there had not been the ability to be rigorous, for a country that has long been perceived as the European cicada, we would not have been credible today, to get to this point and to make our country's credible voice heard at European level. In recent days I have read the interview of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I have heard it at a hearing at the Commission which I have the honour to chair. It is an inescapable issue of federal Europe, which surpasses the intergovernmental vision which has prevailed in recent times objectively. I believe that we must raise the bar of common ambition: we must push France and Germany constructively, decisively, parallelly. The openness of President Hollande to the political union proposed by Merkel, albeit conditional and still ambiguous in some ways, must be strongly supported and goes hand in hand with the overcoming of a "germanocentric" vision in the management of the economic crisis, which now risks being paid also and above all by Germany (just see German export data). Colleagues, a federal Europe implies - of this, however, we must be aware - a great awareness of European public opinion, as the President-in-Office of the Council said, but also a greater degree of seriousness of our own, of the ruling classes, because for too long we have seen governments and rulers unable to speak a language of truth, which have used Europe to lay the burden of unpopular decisions on it. Too often anti-European demagogy has been used as an electoral reconstitute of the individual coalitions. Traditional and new movements have emerged from anti-Europeanism. Today it is necessary to explain that in the marasma of the global crisis, only a transfer of sovereignty from individual States to the European dimension can enable us to defend the level of well-being achieved, to be global actors and to achieve in strategic areas non-evadable efficiencies and savings. Is it absurd - I ask myself and I ask you - to talk about European union in the fields of foreign policy and security and defence policy? Of course, this requires a new vision not only of the military commitment but also of the industrial policy of the great European countries, which is extremely and intimately linked to these. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this new mission can be the defining element of the Government's commitment, which from the joint participation of political forces belonging to the Party of European Socialism and the European People's Party draws an additional force and has an additional opportunity. You, Mr Letta, decided to involve Parliament on the eve of the European Council. It's an important sign of attention. I think there is a common path, Government and Parliament. We will do our part and the polar star is in his words: a Europe of facts and not of rhetoric. [[Applause from SCPI, PD and Senators Bonfrisco and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u14	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u15	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me say that we in the Left Ecology and Freedom, a member of the Mixed Group, would have expected more than a substantial declaration of continuity with the programme of the previous Government and the previous majority, in fact substantially unchanged. Moreover, his communications, Mr President, evoke a different Europe, that which we have long defined as peoples and regions, citizens and communities; Europe where decisions are more direct expression of the representatives freely chosen by voters rather than the result of the compromises of governments and the hypothesis of intervention of bureaucracies. Your statements are therefore disappointing to us. They are in the propositional part of the general picture and appear weak, not bearers of significant traits of radical change of the course undertaken until today. They are because this phase, characterized by an aggressive management of the public debt of the EU countries, has produced serious social but also economic consequences, widening the differences between rich and difficult areas and between the privilege of the few and the suffering of the many: workers and citizens affected above all by a recessive austerity designed to remedy the damage produced by a financial crisis, often the result of irresponsible, illegal and even illegal behaviour. They are so in the specific issues dealt with, such as the effective fight against the important phenomena of tax evasion and avoidance. We believe that, from this point of view, for example, it is necessary to define priority investigation perimeters aimed at law enforcement actions, especially preventive rather than repressive, for homogeneous areas in relation to the category of subjects, the ways of circumvention and evasion, the professions supporting such illegal activities. They are also so for the energy sector, which needs serious and courageous energy planning that cannot be the one in force: a planning that must consistently support the development of renewable sources without hesitation or, even, dangerous setbacks, aiming at the production of environmentally sustainable energy, integrated distribution networks, rational and thrifty use that reduces and qualifies consumption, from domestic to industrial ones. We therefore believe that fiscal measures and measures must be proposed to establish a true political union on the continent, with a greater role for the European Parliament. It is therefore necessary to support the amendment of the Treaty on the convergence of budgets (the so-called fiscal compact) by agreeing with European partners substantial measures in favour of development (let us use this word rather than the term "growth", since we believe that growth is above all a parameter, a numerical criterion, while development is more comprehensive, since it concerns people, communities, is more linked to the history, vocations of the places) which provide for a partial Europeanisation of sovereign debt for the share that exceeds 60% of gross domestic product, according to the proposals made by different economists, and also according to our modest thinking. It is necessary to agree with the bodies of the European Union on the application of the golden rule which excludes from the spending rules introduced by the Stability and Growth Pact, in particular the redevelopment of the suburbs - urban ones and not only - by means of recovery plans that extend our building; measures to safeguard the hydrological structure of the territories; the safety of school buildings; the recovery, preservation and development of the cultural heritage; measures to rehabilitate the drinking water distribution networks (it is at this time the announcement that in Sardinia the operator of the hydropotabile is collapsing, with a debt that far exceeds the 500 million euros), the strengthening of local public transport, with particular regard to regional commuting and iron transport, the interventions of real energy saving through the use of renewable energies and not only. We believe that there must also be a different decision in the area of combating tax avoidance. We know who are not contributing adequately to the efforts and support of the State and the European Union to tackle the crisis. It is certainly not the employees, who give more than all having less than all. In the field of energy, we think that it is right to have more ambitious objectives: to achieve at least 30% in the development of renewable energy by 2020, an objective that is now considered possible, to achieve a 30% reduction in carbon emissions and, in the meantime, to promote in Italy the achievement of the objectives set, still far away, of the 20-20-20 strategy, making binding the 20% share of renewable sources and energy efficiency through the questioning of the national energy system. We therefore think that all energy production activities through fuel oil should be drastically reduced, and we must also call on all those who have been enriched through the production and use of that energy source to remedy the damage caused to the environment, restoring, reclamation, healing the natural territory. Some regions have been deeply affected by their development potential due to the use of fuel oil and fossil fuels in general. Still, we must overcome, without any more hesitation, if we do not keep it as a sort of strategic energy reserve for the tragic moments, the use of coal, especially that not suitable. And allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to make a reference to one of the most merciless lands hit by the crisis: the Sulcis. In short, we are asking, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for a different courage from what had previously been demonstrated by the Monti Government and its broad coalition. We call for the overcoming of those policies and the inauguration of a policy, including a European one, that makes Italy feel, but above all the Italians, part of Europe's destiny. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u16	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u17	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is no doubt that the concern and sensitivity with which you felt that this parliamentary debate should take place on the eve of an extraordinary European Council do honour to you and your Government, not only and not so much because of the novelty (no, it is not new, because the Monti Government did so very diligently and the Berlusconi Government did so, with the joint meetings of the Foreign Affairs Committees), but because the reflections you held this morning as a backdrop to the two issues of energy policy and fiscal policy, which were the subject of tomorrow's summit, allow this House to further develop a true Europeanism, a Europeanism, as you seemed to have said, not in a way and not in a convenient way, because Europeanism, which we have sometimes adapted, is not enough. If Europe is in a crisis of legitimacy today, it is because it is too slow, too opaque has been its construction in this last period, particularly in recent years, those passed through by our generation. It was good for Pierferdinando Casini to take us back to that beautiful quote by De Gasperi. De Gasperi calls on us to be wary of pooling bureaucracies without adequate political will. And if I understood the date well, De Gasperi had the courage and dignity to do so after the rejection of the CED, when an authentic Europeanist, President Pierre Mendès France, had the cowardice not to put the question of trust at the Bourbon Palace. For De Gasperi it meant such a political defeat that it accentuated its death, which would take place during the summer. You, Mr Letta, have already been to Europe in the aftermath of the confidence we gave you in this House. On that occasion, Italy's positions were upheld with great dignity towards the German Chancellor. It is not necessary to repeat them further. However, I would like to draw your attention when you say that the United States of Europe is marching very badly in the face of the toxins of financial capitalism and that the United States of America and Japan themselves are doing better. Then we can remind those who today govern in Germany what happened in the history of America and in the history of federalism. At the end of the eighteenth century, Jefferson, the great Democrat, challenged the great Republican Hamilton that Virginia - words that anticipate Germany - was not willing to share the debt with the other states, little more than a dozen, of the former colonies of the time. Hamilton used the implicit powers of the National Bank; from this point of view, we, in 2013, see how the United States can be more nation, more people, more communities of destiny or destiny, than Europe can do, precisely because Hamilton's arguments prevailed then over those of Jefferson. Allow me, therefore, to make a very last remark. The next year there will be the new elections to the European Parliament and we will have to start talking again about an institutional construction of a different Europe. The direct election of the President of the Commission had been discussed up to ten years ago, but then everything turned to defending the ECB's prerogatives so that it would not become a continuation of the Bundesbank. From this point of view, without taking away anything from the merits of the Monti Government, I believe that my friend Casini will recognize that there have been merits also from Berlusconi and Tremonti in having wanted Draghi, who tried to assert more in the sense of Hamilton than Jefferson. We hope that all this will develop into a European construction that at the 2014 appointment is worthy of that ancient quote by De Gasperi. [[Applause from the LAG, PdL and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his communications on the European Council of 22 May 2013: certainly an interesting issue that escapes most people in our country with regard to the remarks and repercussions that the choices made at European level then have on the everyday life of every citizen. Alas, however, as I used to say when, from 2001 to 2006, I presided over the Commission for the European Union's policies of the Chamber of Deputies, European issues often do not end up on the front pages of our newspapers or even in the headlines of our newspapers: perhaps because they are complex, and perhaps because it is more news to talk about dramatic facts, which, for goodness sake, happen, but which have an aspect, as it were, limited to the scope of European decisions, which affect all citizens, not only of our country, but of course of Europe. Thank you, therefore, for the communications you have given us and why you have wished to highlight some fundamental aspects not only of the issues that will be discussed at the European Council tomorrow, but also of the issues that have been outlined in your inauguration speech and which will be addressed at the forthcoming European Councils. Talking about Europe means talking about many things; it means talking about a happy intuition that allowed many years ago enlightened people to understand that there could be a way to put together different peoples, each proud of their own roots, but with traits that unified them, united them and that could be preponderant compared to differences. Overcoming these differences has allowed us to start a path that, until it was managed with intelligence and in memory of the teachings of Altiero Spinelli - one of the people I want to remember in this intervention - has borne fruit and results; then, mistakes have been made, so to speak, in the conduct and in the choices of the policies put in place and have been listened to the desires of a whole series of lobby or power groups, certainly very influential at European level, which have partly changed the orientation of Europe's choices. In this way, we have moved from discipline or, better, from addressing important issues to addressing others that are frankly perplexing, looking at the content of some European directives. The Europe we want to think about is the one that - forgive me for the pun - thinks big, that is think big issues and leaves the questions of detail to the individual countries. It is the Europe of those peoples who gather in the regions, who live in the great contexts, including macro-regional or Euro-regional, and who represent for the same reason the true glue of the European communities and the truly democratic expression, if we want, of the very identity of the peoples of the European Union. We will never be able to accept that the people of one of the many countries of the European Union can be called better or worse than others, but we want to stress that we and everyone must be given the pride of belonging to that particular people, without saying that they are better or worse than others, I repeat, because everyone must know the importance of their own roots, their own culture, their own history and their own reference values, and no one can afford to denigrate them. Having said that, by addressing in particular the issues that you have touched on at tomorrow's meeting, we believe that on some issues the path taken is the right one, particularly with regard to the first point, concerning energy. From the point of view of energy choices, a common effort is certainly needed to simplify certain procedures and to understand that this is an epochal turning point - a Copernican revolution, I dare say - and that renewable sources are the only solution we have in order to hope for a recovery that benefits from their use, since they certainly cost less than fossil hydrocarbons. We must, however, pose a problem: let us say in Europe that this is the right path, but we must also make an analysis within our country, especially of the behaviors that, at the central or peripheral level, are assumed whenever there is the proposition of interventions of this type. The battles against wind turbines, biomass or hydroelectric power stations are famous; and it is famous - alas, it is fair to point out - a certain distraction on the part of the GSE in following the practices for renewable energy. It is famous - and known in a negative way - also the interest of the great energy groups I do not say to hinder, but to ensure that there are no privileged channels towards renewable energies. The choice to be made, therefore, must be implemented at European level, but must also go in the direction of strict, effective and concrete control at the level of the central state. It is also right to support energy infrastructures and their completion: sometimes, even in this case, it happens to have to do with communities that, applying the principle of nimby, think that the thing can be done, but in another location, not in their back yard, in their territory. We must convince the people that the benefits are then common, belong to everyone, even if someone in certain situations is forced to suffer greater damage than others. It is a question of being able to communicate, above all to communicate that it is necessary to carry out such interventions in order to help the manufacturing sector for which it is hoped to reach 20% with reference to the contribution on the whole of the income produced at European level, because they are often however companies that have a high energy consumption. And we cannot lose quality productions of our country, especially in the North, where we have been masters, precursors and we have much to teach all other realities, not only European but the world. It is therefore a right choice to help this type of productive reality, as the challenge of high energy prices for families is also to be tackled openly, because the competition and competition between suppliers must be true. It often seems to be witnessing a kind of sign: we are almost facing a sign in our country, if we look at the large groups that can actually provide domestic energy to our family realities. Therefore, in this area too, greater openness is needed, not to be afraid of competition and competition. Perhaps this is the most important challenge that must be made clear to those in other European countries who have large and very large energy producers, in some cases also owned by the State, who want to influence European policies, perhaps conditioning the action of their governments [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Those who are interested in energy producers, in large private companies, are not in the public interest, because, although it is true that part of the profits is taxed and ends up in the coffers of the State, the vast majority of the benefit ends up in private pockets. The other big issue is about taxation. What you have said is important, but I hope that the guidelines for greater integration and enhanced solidarity, which will be followed with regard to monetary and economic union, will have effects. I am only concerned that a wrong model is not used. I would like to understand whether the reference model will be the one we have seen in Greece, the one in the so-called PIGS countries or even the one in Cyprus: these are models that we do not like. We think there must and there may be another way to go and if he does, if he accepts this challenge, he will find us at his side. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u21	Mr President, government representatives, fellow senators, it is surprising to find in the preparatory documents of the European Council such a pressing focus on the evasion of VAT, when it is known that the greater share of tax evasion and avoidance is closely linked to organised crime and its dynamics of money laundering, as well as to lobbying agreements that negatively affect entire market sectors: we quote for Italy gambling, in particular the circuit of slot machines, whose evasion would amount to about 80 billion euros. We cannot forget the financial havens inside and outside the European Union, which we seem to have noticed only in recent times, after decades of tolerant attitudes, when not protective, towards them. However, we would like to briefly highlight some points of thought which come from the European Commission and which seem to represent a positive reversal of the trend: The countries of the European Union do not collect the tax revenues of tens of billions of euros invested in offshore tax havens. Fraud and evasion limit the ability of governments to collect revenue and to comply with economic policy plans. Translation: we finally noticed. With the implementation of a tax system based on principles of justice and equity, all workers and managers of multinationals will contribute equally to public finances. The term "fairly" should be noted. The international market for cross-border deposits continues to be dominated by offshore financial markets, where there are laws that strongly protect banking secrecy. Even in this case better late than never. In order to effectively combat tax fraud and tax evasion and to harmonise, by making them a common heritage, the good administrative practices of the Member States of the European Union, the Commission has identified acceptable lines of action aimed at building or recovering a loyal and collaborative relationship between States and taxpayers (can we read "less bureaucracy"?) to coordinate Member States' action in tax matters through the use of appropriate and innovative IT tools to ensure that measures to combat fraud and money laundering and best tax governance practices are shared and homogeneous within the EU area, and, finally, to strengthen persuasive action against so-called tax havens, so that they apply minimum standards of good governance in tax matters. The 5 Star Movement believes that the Italian State can go further and be an example in the European context, recovering the gap that separates it from the other States of the Union on the issue of combating evasion, money laundering and tax fraud. In view of the recovery of credibility cited by Prime Minister Letta, we therefore invite the Government to make two calls: while waiting for the forthcoming legislative update of the European legal framework on anti-money laundering, we invite it to work to bring Italian law into line with European law, with particular reference to the crime of self-laundering; we also invite it to fully transpose the principles enshrined in the 1999 Criminal Convention on Corruption, ratified by the Senate in June last year, in particular those concerning accounting offences, first of which the fake in the budget. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are convinced that this Government, as sensitive as the previous one to the European bodies, will take these calls into due consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Razzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is a crucial date for the future of Europe, which is crucial because, as enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty, the European Council gives the Union the necessary impetus for its development and defines its political orientations and general political priorities. It is time, therefore, to redefine an effective organization chart, which addresses the whole of the Union, aimed at overcoming European problems. It has not taken advantage, until now, of this great opportunity which, outside the laborious operations of the Community procedure, should offer more easily the necessary impetus for political cooperation between States. Basically, the institution, precisely because of its flexibility, has contributed a great deal to the creation of the common market, the monetary system, the direct election of Parliament and so on. However, it is not enough: it must be admitted, on the other hand, that the European Council still does not have democratic control at Community level. And then on 22 May 2013, European leaders will discuss fundamental issues that affect all nations individually and the Union as a whole. Tax policy issues, the most efficient way of collecting taxes and how to eradicate tax evasion and fraud, will be on the agenda, improving cooperation between tax administrations in the Member States. Strengthening Member States' budgetary policy and deepening the internal market as well as resolving energy issues in the context of the European Union's efforts to promote growth, employment and competitiveness will be on the agenda. In order to improve the fulfilment of tax obligations, it is time for the Commission to use the taxpayer code, which establishes best practices aimed at strengthening cooperation, trust and reliability between tax administrations and taxpayers, in order to ensure more transparency on rights and obligations and to foster a service-oriented approach: a code indicating cooperation as a solid and necessary basis of departure. This is a thorny and difficult subject, but the whole of the Union's fiscal policy is quite right. It would also be desirable to deepen economic and monetary union, the conclusions of which seem not to be within the reach of this Council. Particularly important, Mr President, as the majority of Member States have acknowledged, is to make changes to the agreements on the taxation of savings income in force with third countries. The need to give new impetus to the work currently under way in the context of the Code of Conduct on Business Taxation has become a categorical imperative. With regard to the current VAT system, we all know the difficulties that this issue poses at national level: the regime is costly in its management and vulnerable to fraud. Well, the EU VAT Forum must be able to achieve its objectives: a dialogue platform where representatives of large, small and medium-sized enterprises and tax authorities can exchange views on the transnational practical aspects of the VAT administration; identify and discuss best practices that could help streamline the management of the VAT system, in order to reduce compliance costs and at the same time ensure the collection of tax revenue. We are at the heart of the problems facing the state of the Union. As far as our country is concerned, a Europeanist convinced in the state of affairs despite an emergency government group assorted with opposing factions and with a President-in-Office of the Council who urges the United States of Europe, the action can only be aimed at obtaining more attention and propulsion in the full implementation of cooperation between the Member States without subordinates and reverential vassals. The hope is for a genuine awareness that will build a fundamental basis for good governance in the network of transnational relations within the Union. The task which awaits you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is delicate, it is not easy, but we want you to have the ability to propose by being able to avoid subtleties, for the sole purpose of starting an overall process of cooperation for too long only desired. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's extraordinary European Council is called upon to take a series of decisions on the construction of the single energy market but, as President Letta reminded us, it is also called upon to take stock of the progress made over the last two years. Well, I believe that, in making this observation, the European Council must start from the extraordinary innovations that have changed the global energy industry exactly in the last two years, because the approach of European energy policy, which also comes from the final proposals that can be made tomorrow and of which we have had information, takes shape in the nineties, when the world was very different from today, when China was not yet the workshop and the bank of the West and India was not yet the office of relocation of our multinationals and some of our health systems. It was years in which the environmental emergency and global warming were discovered, but it was thought that the energy game could be resolved in the mere construction of competitive markets within Europe's borders and in the gradual replacement of traditional fossil sources with renewable ones, no matter what prices. Today the world has changed: the West has noticed at its expense what a great mistake it has been to disinterest itself in its manufacturing industry and its cost constraints and today wants to recover. Obama's America is rediscovering the workshops and succeeding thanks to the increasing use of unconventional fossil sources, which are not only the shale gas (remembered by President Letta) but also the tight oil. The United States is already net exporters of gas and will soon also be of oil, causing a upheaval in the strategic balances on the international commodity market. Already today there is an extraordinary differentiation in energy prices between North America, Europe and Asia, which risks transforming Europe (and Italy) into a pot of stone between iron pots. We must therefore rethink our energy policy. In the years of Kyoto, coal has become the most important source of electricity production and Asia, which now pays gas even more than Europe, is breaking even more heavily on coal to offset price developments. China, by now, generates more carbon dioxide alone than the United States and Europe combined, and this risks disrupting the logic with which we had set the Kyoto targets because it is not the divisible atmosphere on continents. These are facts which involve taking on new responsibilities from the European Council. The environmental constraint must certainly be maintained and strengthened, but in new terms, capable of supporting European manufacturing industry and not of penalising it in the presumptuous belief that we are and are destined to remain - who knows why - the best in the world. I would therefore like to point out three points on which the European Council should call on the Commission to carry out the necessary work of deepening and proposing. The first point is the contrast to the segmentation of the transatlantic markets. President Obama hopes for a single Euro-American market and has removed the veto on the export of gas and U.S. production oil. Well, this is not general liberalism: this is the industrial policy of the United States to which Europe must respond with a unified policy and regulation that defends the interests of the continent and of our country. At the same time, this revolution is changing the mechanisms of price formation. The Europe that has discovered the manipulations of the reference banking interest rate (LIBOR) on the London Square has an interest in making clear how the Brent price is formed, which serves as a reference to the entire energy price system. With regard to the third point, the trade between continents and the resulting international financial flows now incorporate increasing pollution quotas of the countries of origin. The economy is one and the same. The competitiveness of so many goods is also based on the lack of environmental constraints. Well, I believe - and I come to the conclusion - that the European Council must study the ways, in compliance with the WTO agreements, to defend the continental market (and, in our case, also the Italian market) from the invasion of products built without respect or similar respect for European environmental constraints. An energy policy which is based only on abstract environmental protection in Europe, as if it were an island detached from the rest of the planet, is now in danger of losing both in terms of environmental protection and in terms of the development and defence of manufacturing industry, which, in words, we all say we want to support, but which, in the end, we find it difficult to achieve. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Marino Luigi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u26	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1, signed by Senator Susta and other Senators, No 2, signed by Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 3 (correct text), signed by Senator Bitonci and other Senators, and No 4 (correct text), signed by Senator Zanda and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. Senator Susta subsequently signed motion for a resolution No 4 (correct text) and consequently withdrew his own text. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u27	Mr President, before I give the opinion, I would like to stress two concepts that I have learned from the interesting and important debate that took place this morning. In particular, with regard to the many requests that have come, I want to express the attention and willingness of the Government to follow up many of these, as well as many concerns that I have heard. Senator Santangelo expressed a very strong concern about renewable energy, incentives and costs: a real, real concern, because we all know what the problems have been in the months and years before. It will be a field on which I am convinced we will discuss and work - this branch of Parliament, the House and the Government - because it represents one of the key issues, also and especially for our country. I also took his final quote as a very strong stimulus. In the same way, I repeat Senator Guerrieri Paleotti's intervention on the issue of banking union, reaffirming that at the June European Council, as far as we are concerned, the need to reach a final and definitive point on this matter will be essential. It is not possible that, even though the banking union was decided a year ago, there is still a lack of specific definition of the three points that you, Senator, have mentioned. It undermines the very credibility of the European Union, which takes decisions, announces them in press conferences or summits with robust words and, a year later, these decisions have not yet been implemented. It is clear that this is a matter of credibility and in this regard I take up Pier Ferdinando Casini's intervention, who wondered why so much Euroscepticism today. I think that in part it is linked to such phenomena: if decisions are made, they are announced with great emphasis and a year later nothing has happened, then it is clear that the attention of citizens can only turn at that point into a negative reaction. There is no doubt, as many speakers have pointed out (Senator Compagna has focused on the point, but President Casini was the first to quote it) that the theme of the next European elections is straightforward. We are going towards European elections in which the very great risk we run is that if, from now to then, the decisions taken will not turn into concrete facts, visible to the citizens, the vote of the European citizens will be a vote accordingly: a vote that will build a European Parliament in which anti-European political trends and formations will have numbers and strength that will make it much more complex and much more difficult to make of the next parliamentary term in which it is instead possible to move forward in practice. That is why there is a need to be very concrete and to combine the ideal momentum, which I have heard in so many very strong words here this morning, with the actual achievements compared to issues that, for example, have to do with energy. Senator Stucchi first touched on the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, and on the issue of the competitiveness of the European industrial system. Senator Cucchetti's last speech on this issue is, in my opinion, an important wake-up call, because it is true that all the other competitive economies in the world have chosen to bet on the industrial future; an industrial future different from the past, of course, with a different industry, with a different environmental impact, fortunately, different. There is no doubt, however, that in the United States the strategy for relaunching industrial policy is one of the strengths with which President Obama is moving. I would add that the real novelty of the last few weeks is what is happening in Japan, where obviously the introduction of financial resources for the revival of growth is also making that other polarity of the industrial world one of the key points. Europe cannot stand still, it cannot stand by. I therefore take this request, which must, of course, be transferred, I repeat, to concrete facts. Senator Razzi spoke of tax harmonisation: all the issues dealt with make sense if we can actually bring them back to the issue of tax harmonisation. I agree with that point. I also take the most critical intervention of my colleague Uras, who I want to take as a stimulus for the themes that he has touched on, starting from some Italian themes: the question of the transformation of our territory, the question of the Bonifiche, the question of the territories (she has cited Sulcis, which is one of these) that have paid more in recent decades in terms of tribute compared to the industrial needs and energy supply of the entire country. These are dramatic issues for Italy, especially because the question of the inability to turn decisions into reality - to apply decisions - is not only a European problem, but is even stronger in Italy. Times from the resolution of a reclamation to the concrete application of that decision are biblical times and we cannot afford them. I believe that the debate and reflection on these issues are by far one of the most important and certainly most decisive for us. Many have mentioned the issue of tax havens. Senator Vacciano has been on this very punctual: I share his speech from the first to the last word. The problem is that on this point and on this issue at European level there is an unsustainable hypocrisy: it is hypocrisy linked to the need to say things about tax havens and to know that these same things, when they apply, have consequences that some people do not like, because they turn into losses of easy earnings, that some have built themselves up thanks to a system that, compared to these issues, has proved and is unsustainable, especially in times of globalisation and ability to transfer information. I have no doubt, therefore, that even on the two issues you have touched on, which must be applied to our country (from self-recycling to fake in the budget), we must do much more. In fact, these are issues that I regard as absolutely fundamental the ability to reform our system in terms of correctness, regularity and transparency in order to let people know abroad that if you come to Europe and to Italy the current rules work. Everyone has touched on the question of democratic legitimacy, and on this term. This is an issue on which the European affair either ends in a dead end or a turning point towards the United States of Europe. I want to end with that. I have the impression that Europe can no longer go on as it has done to date, that is, with some progress, with timidity, with absences of achievements that were recovered the next time: we are either at a stage where there is acceleration or Europe, as it is, implodes. I do not believe that Europe, as it is, can still stand up to a step-by-step phase: it would implode. The citizens will implode it with the next vote for the European Parliament if there are no achievements and progress linked, yes, to small facts, but also and above all to a great vision. We must not defuse the issue of the United States of Europe with quotations that we leave in the background of our reasonings. We have mentioned - many speeches have done so - the United States and Japan, China and other competitors: either we are, as Europeans, together with making our competitiveness policies, trade policies, economic policies, or Europe will not succeed, and our public opinions will understand and implode the system. That is why I believe that this is a key and absolutely fundamental issue today. Compared to the motions for resolutions which have been tabled, the Government gives a favourable opinion on motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Susta and other senators. Many of those concepts are exactly the same as in motion for a resolution No 3 (correct text), tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators, which is why we are also voting in favour of it. Although I am absolutely in agreement with many of the things that Mr Uras has said here today and I am willing to accept them as a desire to do a very determined job (I liked the reference to the issue of growth and development: it is a complex and very difficult challenge, which we would like to get away with), however some of the considerations contained in motion for a resolution No 2 would make our negotiation at European level complex with respect to certain points. I am thinking of the issue of fiscal compact and other aspects related to the latest treaties that have been approved by Italy. For these reasons, I can only express a contrary opinion from the Government on those passages. I regret that, because on many issues I am convinced that common work, even on these matters, can be absolutely positive. I therefore hope that on many of those issues it will be possible to take a step forward. Colleagues Senators, I believe that before the next European Council on 27-28 June it will be absolutely necessary to repeat a moment like this, because the European Council of 27-28 June will take place after very important things have happened in Europe and between the various European capitals this month. I think that the meeting we are going to meet here will allow us - let me say it in conclusion, I would like to say very much - to say at European level that Italy has a Government and a Parliament - as the Lisbon Treaty requires - both of which are the protagonists of the decisions we take in Europe. The Italian Parliament in Europe counts and the decisions that this Parliament will take today will be binding on the Government, which will be able to tell the European partners: We are going to say, to make and to make those decisions because the Italian Parliament, which has the sovereignty of our people, has asked us to do so. And it will also allow us to say to other governments, who do the same: We cannot move from these positions, because our people and our Parliament have asked us to do so. This is the best way to be a country that rediscovers its Europeanism and that goes with its back straight to treat in Europe, also and especially for the interests of our country. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI, Mixed, GAL, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and Senator Naccarato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u28	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, excuse me, because the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Susta and other senators has been withdrawn and Senator Susta has signed the motion for a resolution tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, I would ask you to give an opinion on motion No 4 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u29	Referring to the motion for a resolution tabled by Senator Susta, I would actually refer to the motion for a resolution No 4 (correct text) tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u30	Thank you, President Letta, we wanted to be sure of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are, of course, very much in agreement with the statement made by President Letta in his reply once again that the European dream could be seriously broken if we were not able to shake Europe and - let us say - to change clearly and precisely the policies that Europe has pursued so far and that - as you know, dear President - have only, alas, put the emphasis on heavy lines of rigour, with prices that are paying many, many European citizens, ours first. Therefore, when we put very clear and precise proposals in our resolution, we move exactly in the direction - all the more so today that next year's European elections are approaching, which will be a difficult passage - of not limiting ourselves, as has happened in today's debate, to Spinelli's European dream by quoting only. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we really think that the prospect for Italy is to fully implement the United States of Europe, as a country we have a duty to carry out a battle, together with other European partners, in order to make substantial changes to the policies implemented by the European Union to date. In the motion for a resolution which we have tabled, we have clearly indicated the way to deal with problems which we have been facing for a very long time and which you, Mr Letta, are well aware that we are no longer the only ones to put, like this issue, across the political forces at the heart of the debate in Europe. I am referring to the amendment of the Treaty on stability, coordination and governance in economic and monetary union (s.a. Physical compact). You know that when the different policies of the United States and Japan are evoked, we are called first and foremost, together with the other European States, to "aggress" the situation in order to achieve a change in the fiscal compact. This is an inescapable issue to which we must set out our steps, but the commitment, in our view, can only be this if we really want to start to change and make sure that European policies are increasingly geared to the welfare of European communities. Another absolutely central issue is that of agreeing on a number of interventions outside the Stability Pact. This is where the issue of energy lies, Mr President. For Europe - on this we absolutely agree, and on the contrary I will return to the subject - all policies to implement the 20-20-20 strategy are the same that we are asking for. Part of Europe is calling for an ambitious target of 30% renewables and a reduction of harmful emissions of 30% to be achieved. All interventions must be aimed at achieving this objective. Let us think about energy efficiency and how much benefit it would bring to the system of small and medium-sized enterprises. These actions must also be put outside the Stability Pact, because Europe cannot contradict itself. We cannot confine ourselves to pointing out those objectives which not only Italy must support, we must implement in national policies all the instruments to make those parameters 20-20-20 binding, and we must exclude the rest of the European countries and Europe as a whole in saying: in order to achieve those objectives all investment interventions must be considered outside the Stability Pact. I have noticed that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have appreciated some clear and precise passages from my Senator Group's speech on issues relating to the fight against tax evasion. We refer to a series of unequivocal acts carried out by the European Commission with regard to the action plan to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, including through the definition of tax havens. On the energy issue, Mr President, Italy has for too many years done exactly the opposite of what Europe was asking for. It went to that assembly and called into question the strategic objectives for economic development set out in Directive 20-20-20. Today, however, ours must be the country that makes policies to achieve those goals and that is part of the block that indicates more ambitious goals. But here we have to deal with the house. We have achieved very important results, although contradictory (especially on incentives for renewables, which will have to be revised), but they have all been called into question. The national energy strategy, approved by the Monti Government among other things, is not clear whether in a definitive way or not, it has not assumed as central, in this country (we are not talking about other countries, Mr President of the Council, but about Italy, which could have a strong vocation for this sector, which could adopt this as its own mission) the issues of renewable energy, efficiency and energy saving, and still makes us talk about drilling. We, with this reasoning, in pointing out the way for Europe (and the next European Council in this respect, is crucial for this, because it is not generic but concerns specific issues), also highlight the need for the Minister for Economic Development and the Minister for the Environment to put their hand in the revision of the energy strategy. Furthermore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you know today, we have a series of media events which you are well aware of and which concern measures which are due to expire, such as the one which provides for 55% deduction for energy efficiency, to which others can be added, which we have allowed ourselves to point out in the resolution tabled and which would be very important to the world of small and medium-sized enterprises and the craft sector, which could receive a breath of oxygen from such measures. In addition, we also point out the path of incentives and accumulation because we believe that the future of renewables is closely linked to a networked energy infrastructure, to the distribution of energy and not to large infrastructure. It will therefore be necessary to consider a new energy account linked to domestic residential installations with the use of components from the European Union. In fact, there is the big problem that will be discussed in Europe about dumping, about Chinese products. We, therefore, must find our own way, and this is once again to focus on innovation and the incentives for accumulation. As you can see, Mr President-in-Office, there is much we can do. However, we must make that 20% target binding for us by re-modifying the national energy strategy in view of that end. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we really want to go back to the vanguard in Europe, we must stick to those countries that want to set ambitious targets for energy strategy. If we do not begin to work to call into question the policies adopted so far (first of all the so-called fiscal compact) the appointment of the European elections will surprise everyone with a bitter awakening for the great gap between European citizens and Europe. We believe that the future is the United States of Europe, but that we must change with determination the policies of rigour adopted to date, indicating the future of Europe, which lies precisely in sustainable development and ecological conversion. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups, M5S and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u36	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, the Autonomous Group has signed the resolution tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators (correct text) and, of course, will support it. In addition, we greatly appreciated the report of the President of the Letta Council for the extremely concrete and rigorous approach (always present in his speeches) with which he deals with issues today crucial for our country. This time, too, he was able to grasp the challenges of Europe, also showing a new attitude, of great seriousness, compared to the European Union, much appreciated by our Group, which, as the President knows, is strongly engaged in the European chessboard. It is no coincidence that both Trentino and South Tyrol have formed, together with the Austrian Tyrol, a Euroregion that is actually producing many fruits and is also experimenting with a policy of European integration, precisely in that perspective expressed today by President Letta, who is proving successful. We have very much shared the idea of a Europe that does not just play on constraints and is not a cage (to use the definition of President Letta). Conversely, the proposition of active Europeanism and change involving citizens, which seeks to propose solutions and which, therefore, enthusiasts the people who are part of the Union, I believe is the right strategy to adopt today. A few years ago, on the occasion of the opening ceremony of the Alcide De Gasperi room in the European Parliament, her daughter Maria Romana said that this Europe lacks the initial passion. I think so, too. We have built more a Europe of constraints, bureaucracy, even finance, and today perhaps a Europe that is actually felt and also has its own identity is missing. I believe that this Europe, to which the President himself referred, of the peoples, of the regions, of the small country, of the many identities and of the many diversity, is today the Europe that we all want; it is Europe that is able to face the great challenges that President Letta referred to. I am thinking above all of the Europe of young people, of a Europe that focuses on work, training and competitiveness, areas where there is certainly a lot of work to be done, for which I believe the most advanced European experience can be useful compared to ours. I only mention the policy of training, the relationship with the world of work, the policy of languages, which is almost dramatic in Italy, while today it is an indispensable tool to be able to move and be competitive. That is the only way to combat anti-Europeanism. We therefore share the idea that we must give hope, especially to young people, because without this nothing is built. Speaking therefore of work, opportunity and enterprise, allow me, President, to remind you of the effort that our Province is making together with all the mountain territories for agricultural policy. In fact, we are convinced that the mountain territories need specific attention, not more than the one reserved for others, but certainly different. In recent months, a delicate negotiation action has been carried out with the European Commission and the European Parliament, which has produced important results, which will form the basis for the work on defining the new Common Agricultural Policy: the single premiums, compensatory allowances have been redefined, all instruments that not only help companies and entrepreneurs to stay in the mountains and ensure the environmental balance, but above all ensure the economic survival of territories experiencing greater difficulties than the plains. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of the mountain institutions too, I call on you to take account of what the Community bodies and institutions have produced. I therefore invite you to support, as a national government, this work of mediation and negotiation that has taken many months and much commitment but that has finally produced important results. I know that you, who know our territory well and, in particular, the difficulties of mountain farms, will be able to take this into account. I have also strongly shared other challenges that you have launched, such as energy costs, rather than common security and defence policy. I believe that today Europe really must make a great effort to find again the reasons for being together and, on the basis of a common history, the reasons for building a future fact not only of words and promises. In this regard, your strong reference to the facts and concrete actions I believe we all agree, in a feeling of dignity and pride of a nation that rightly claims to have been one of the founding countries of this European Union and that today does not want to be compressive, but protagonist. In recent months, as an assistant to the Autonomous Province of Trento, I have also worked to remember the hundred years of the beginning of the First World War, and I assure you that at European level this theme is very much felt, precisely because we want, also on the basis of the errors of history, to reconstruct a perspective of collaboration and mutual respect. I therefore conclude my speech, reaffirming our willingness to make every contribution, even specific, on all the issues that you have addressed today with a great sense of responsibility, but also with great sensitivity to this Senate. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u39	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, today we are talking about a difficult subject. It is such a difficult subject that the national press has disinterested itself and it is necessary to look carefully to find a national newspaper that talks about it, perhaps only on the fourteenth page, at the mouth of an economist, even if he is a Nobel Prize winner, Indian. Today we have a difficult task. It is a difficult task for the Government and the President of the Council: to develop the hypothesis of an important and necessary thesis, such as the necessity of the United States of Europe. The hypothesis to demonstrate this theorem lies in the fact that there must be consensus in this respect, in order to develop that there is a need for conviction. President Casini quoted De Gasperi. Reading these days, in order to be a little more used to the language that it is necessary to deal with such debates, I loved one of Schuman's reasoning hypotheses in his speech of May 9, 1950 at Quai d'Orsay, after both he and Adenauer and De Gasperi had gone to America at the end of the Second World War and they had realized the absurdity of a war based essentially on the quarrel in the last fifty years between France and Germany, for the rule over the Sudeti, for the supremacy in the production of coal and in the production of steel. Well, on 9 May Schuman said: "Europe was not made: we had the war." I would like to say today that if we do not make Europe, we will have the defeat, because there will be shocking economies that will take over Europe and everything that the fathers of Europe had thought will no longer be feasible; there will be a failure, there will be social unbundling, school dispersal and such a number of unemployed that populism will have the upper hand even more. There will be everything that can be historically defined with only one expression: the decline of a civilization; the decline of the European West, the decline of Italy, France and Germany. This is what will happen if these countries do not realize the need to develop a very careful debate for which we, at the youngest outcome of an electoral round, are becoming interpreters and responsible, perhaps more responsible, because that is what is most needed. We are, however, the ones who are developing - and not out of whining - the greatest attention to a debate that is necessary for the formation of the United States of Europe. And we cannot move on to a later stage without the fact that on 22 May - pending a more important 22nd, that of September, the date of the elections in Germany - as well as talking about fiscal compacts and energy, Europe does not even talk about a more important issue, which is the first of the four steps to expire, after the Treaty of Lisbon, namely the banking union. There can be no solution to our problems if we do not move from the enormous power of the ECB to a phase in which it is combined with responsibility: power without responsibility is arrogance and self-referentiality, and the latter cannot lead to the development and attention of the next phase, therefore to the United States of Europe. And again, in a somewhat more technical and therefore more tactical debate, the Government, presenting itself in Europe, has to re-examine the need for the structural deficit to be revised, in the light of the need for budgetary draws (and therefore that no longer we talk about balanced budgets, but economic budgets). At a time when we are talking about economic budgets - as is stated in our resolution - it is necessary that the structural deficit should be formally revised, with mechanisms that are not only those currently envisaged, of correction for the cycle, but rather that they should be defined by separating, for the identification of the structural deficit, also investments; therefore, by reference not only to current expenditure, but also by identifying the part relating to investments within the cycle, so that the budget is correct for structural investments. This is because if in the near future (2014 and 2015), instead of the permitted deficit, which is 3%, to which we have arrived before Spain and France, we will have to arrive at a balance of budget (with about 0.5% or less) and if in the next twenty years we will have to recover 60% of public debt, it will mean that we will have to achieve a structural plus of 3% per year. And in order to achieve this objective without increasing the tax burden to 50% - because it stands at 43% today - we need to increase GDP, so we need to invest and devote our full attention to the part that is not yet highlighted and focused in Europe, which is investment and production, not the part of rigour. In order to do this, we need enthusiasm and consensus; we need the debate not only to be confined to Parliament, but also to invest the country and Europe. We must also convince ourselves and realize that - as happened 2000 years ago, when the Greeks wanted to continue to speak Greek and to ensure that all the most important writings were in Greek, but then came the Romans and Latin - today there is no longer the problem of speaking or writing in French, English or German. In fact, if we are not careful, we are not in favour and we do not give our full consent to the fact that the United States of Europe really exists and is formed, we will not have to speak in English or French in the near future, but learn Chinese. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u42	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I don't know about Chinese, but we'll be getting ready. The Lega Nord and Autonomie Group has listened carefully to the report that you have presented and argued today, Mr Letta, and shares many aspects of it, with particular reference to the energy issue. You have gained confidence in the two branches of Parliament with a programme that we called the dream book. The more the days pass, the more we see that there are actually great difficulties in keeping pace with the indications he has given, but we are still confident that tomorrow, at the meeting with the European Council, it will certainly be more practical, as we have seen in his speech. You, Mr President, spoke of a Europe that must be slower and therefore faster in making decisions for the functioning of itself and of the countries that are part of it. You also said that the United States and Japan are much faster than we are because they implement unconventional procedures, and we agree with you. He spoke well of the long-term refinancing plan of the ECB; I am not the Pope, but I would ask that what he said about the issue of banks be implemented in the accomplished sense: probably with fewer banks we would solve the problems of European citizens [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli]] It has reflected well in the key themes of the European programme, and at tomorrow's meeting, with regard to energy, the completion of the internal market, investment in infrastructure, diversification and energy efficiency and the economic question are points and measures that, if applied to the reality of our market, energy above all, in the short term will lead to a reduction of costs, for the sole benefit of companies and, consequently, of all citizens. The arguments that you, Mr President, are preparing to propose to the European Council are at the heart of the European Union's policy and are a key factor in its economic development. I believe that we must pay particular attention to the position that you, Mr President, will hold tomorrow. Today we have had proof of the concreteness (which we share in many passages) that you will show at the European Council meeting tomorrow. The goal at continental level is to achieve an internal energy market and to create a single, more competitive, integrated and flexible energy pole that can offer citizens and businesses quality services at a low cost. With the entry into force of all the measures to open the internal energy market some important results have certainly been achieved, but much still needs to be done to achieve a more efficient and competitive energy market: I am thinking, for example, of the high energy costs that our companies have to bear in order to remain on the market. While it is true that energy tariffs have had a contraction (some have been reduced) mainly due to the fall in the price of the energy component, it is also true that the costs of the networks and very high those of the taxes are still high. In Europe, in fact, the tax component of the energy price for domestic consumers increased on average from 22% in 1998 to 28% in 2010. In Italy, a parafiscal levy is added to this tax component: the so-called general system charges that now weigh 20% on the cost of the bill and raise the price of energy excessively, with serious repercussions on the competitiveness of the country's production system. Action is therefore needed for the real opening of markets, which first of all points to a real reduction in energy costs in order to make our companies more competitive and to be able to think of dealing with competition on the market, both internal and European, with appropriate instruments. I am thinking, for example, of the important industrial realities that are emerging in some regions of the North with regard to the research and development of new technologies related to the development of renewable sources. The projects for interconnection and interoperability, as well as the development of trans-European networks, are essential for the effective functioning of the internal energy market: I remember the "South Stream" and "Nabucco" pipelines, of which we have spoken so much in the past years, but which have not yet seen a concrete result. These interconnections serve to transport energy and gas and are essential to ensure greater diversification in energy supply and reduce the strong dependence on other European countries, particularly Eastern and Arab countries. Another issue that we are likely to address - I address in particular to the President of the 10th Commission - is that concerning the regasifiers and gas storages, which has never been addressed in concrete terms. A fundamental role in the identification of strategic energy projects in the country could certainly have it the Regions (I love to speak of macro Region), to which must be recognized - and we must be aware of this - full decision-making autonomy in the identification of the territorial interventions necessary for the development of the interconnections of energy infrastructures. The European Regulation identifies a limited number of priority areas and corridors for which EU action is more justified. In its 2011 report to the Energy Council, the European Commission estimated the total economic needs of a number of infrastructure interventions in around EUR 200 billion up to 2020. This sum is broken down as follows: EUR 140 billion for the high-voltage electricity transmission system, EUR 70 billion for pipelines, for the transport of high-pressure gas, and about EUR 2.5 billion for carbon dioxide transport infrastructure (another major problem that will have to be tackled as soon as possible, Mr President-in-Office of the Council). The expected benefits of completing the trans-European networks would be higher than the costs of implementing them. In particular, these benefits should affect the achievement of the 2020 energy objectives, as well as the full integration of the internal market for energy and gas, with a positive impact on lower prices and the security of energy supplies in terms of greater diversification of supply channels. As far as supply is concerned, the question of regasifiers has never been seriously addressed: it has never been said a no or a dry yes. The European Commission itself also confirms the significant positive effect that the completion of trans-European energy infrastructure could have on GDP and employment: a 0.42% growth, with around 410,000 additional jobs compared to the baseline scenario for 2011-2020. At this difficult time for the economy of our country, the development of energy infrastructure could be a good channel of growth for our companies and for employment. Today our production system is also in deep crisis because of a very high tax system, which has no equal in Europe. Without making the story of the last 15 months and looking only at the newspapers this morning, it is clear that there is a very strong economic crisis. We must therefore be aware that very high, complex and difficult taxation in management, the lack of legal certainty in tax matters and the risk of continuous tax procedures and disputes will always favour and encourage research abroad of better conditions, independently, Mr President, from any system of monitoring, control or sanction that is provided for. Our motion for a resolution commits you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who will be called tomorrow to represent the Italian Government, to assert against the European Union the great effort of fiscal consolidation carried out in Italy in the last few years of this very long economic crisis. In particular, if you think you're going to beat your fists a little bit on the table, this will make Europe loosen up a little bit and put us in a position to trigger mechanisms for regrowth. On behalf of my Group, therefore, I welcome the words you have expressed on our motion for a resolution, at the first signature of Senator Bitonci, and I am voting in favour of the resolutions tabled. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u43	Colleagues, we greet the students of the School of State Middle School "Antonio Capraro" in Procida, in the province of Naples. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u46	Sunta (SPI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the majority forces is a confirmation of the vote of confidence we expressed in Parliament a few days ago to this Government on the basis of three fundamental objectives: the work, the institutional reforms necessary to restore credibility to politics and precisely a renewed European protagonism. We would, however, like to make a further point on this occasion of the reasons for our vote in favour. For too long, in recent years, Italian politics has remained on the margins of the process of European integration; largely pro-European in words, the protagonists of Italian politics in recent years, up to the experience of the Monti Government, have not affected, as was required of a large Founder country, on the new arrangements that were being consolidated in Europe. This attitude, due to the lack of full awareness of the progressive shift of decision-making centre of gravity towards the European Union, has recently been added to another, much more worrying sign, which has been affirmed in parallel, almost in harmony with the development of the financial crisis that has called into question our real economy and the maintenance of our social model. It consisted in the attribution to this Europe of the main, if not of almost all the faults of the crisis, feeding strongly Eurosceptic sentiments, when not decidedly anti-European, the reaffirmation of xenophobic hatreds, of fears against the different and the stranger, of nationalist regurgitations. It is as if the responsibilities of the political forces in the individual states (our head) in having increased to an extent the public expenditure and therefore the debt, the exasperation of the problems of immigration, the tolerance towards the widespread lawlessness (micro and macro), the justice denied, the lacked structural reforms in the job, the economy, the pension or the muddled reforms of the education and the university or the public administration, were suddenly vanished, absorbed by the mantra of the "maternal Europe" that forces us into a straitjacket of force that compresses the otherwise free energies. Nothing further from me, Mr President, than to say that this Europe is free from responsibility and faults, because we strongly support the resolution and we appreciate the words of your speech and your reply. But paradoxically the consequences of the crisis have prevented public opinion from grasping the profoundly democratic turning point of the Lisbon Treaty towards a greater transfer of sovereignty to the Community institutions. An unborn crisis in Europe has gradually highlighted the weaknesses in the process of European integration, common economic governance and the protection of the single currency. Suddenly, with the dramatic crises that have hit, in the order, Ireland, Portugal, Greece, Spain, Italy and Cyprus, it was realized that the transfer of sovereignty on many subjects, but with still too many powers at national level in the economic and fiscal field, would put the countries with the banking system less strong and more exposed and those with the highest public debt. In this context, the reaction of the Member States - including Italy - was to try to recover the concerns of people by identifying the main responsibilities outside themselves, trying to convince the public that the causes were elsewhere, totally in Brussels, that there was the main culprit of the lack of answers and that the fault of the fire in so many squares of Europe, of the anger of the people, was the result of the policies of austerity and not even of the bad government, sometimes recklessly irresponsible on the front of the easy credit, others on that of the debt, even if not mainly, of the national governments. And when contradictions broke out and people had to realize the reality, this was even more dramatic, because unexpected. I do not want to say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and the senators, that the fiscal compact, the six-pack, the two-pack, the creation of the State-saving Fund, the increased flexibility of the European Central Bank (which has put EUR 2000 billion of liquidity into the system in two years) have in itself been sufficient to respond to the crisis. In so many years, since the crisis was still not biting on the flesh of the people, we have supported the need for European policies for growth in addition to those already in place (structural funds, social fund, common agricultural policy, research framework programme); the need for debt mutualisation and the consequent possibility of financing with government debt the large infrastructure investments that Europe needs to respond to the labour demand of its 50 million unemployed and poor. But these shortcomings on the growth and achievement of a unified economic governance cannot, Mr President, be used as an alibi, in Italy but also in other countries, not to complete the "homework" that in Italy, with a great sense of the institutions and with the courage of the truth, the Monti Government has set, pursued and partially (for the abrupt conclusion of its experience) realized. We look with concern at the statements of those who, even in this majority of whom we are honored to be part of, albeit in a free and vigilant way, believe that we can now get out of the bunker of the crisis, that curfew is over, that the war of the crisis has passed and that we can, therefore, ask the stepmother Europe to allow us to loosen the meshes, even beyond the shared parameters. The time has come, Mr President, for the 'homework' to be considered to be finished for the Italians, but not for the State and the public machinery, which must start a serious introspective examination of its expenditure and the reasons for the proliferation of factors of the same uncontrolled and uncontrollable. It will not escape you that with a public debt of 130% of GDP, even if we grow by 3% per year for the next ten years, we could make significant progress but we will only reach 100% in the debt-to-GDP ratio. All this, however, will be possible if the debt does not increase and, in order not to increase it, we will certainly not be able to increase only the tax burden. In the coming days, Europe should close the infringement process for excessive deficits and this will make it possible to better combine the reasons for growth with those of budgetary rigour. All this, however, must not allow anyone to believe that the deficit spending can today, in this situation, produce the same virtuosities that it produced in America after the great depression or even only in Italy in the sixties and seventies. Of course, the results achieved in the economic and financial management of the Monti Government and its strong Europeanism, Mr President, the authority and trust that you immediately inspired in the European Chancellors will enable you to play an essential role in preventing the disrupting phenomena that are taking place. At the same time it will enable it to relaunch the process of European integration, testing the availability that has emerged in these days in important European countries, even if this would lead to the enlargement of the hypotheses of a Europe at different speeds or, worse, the loss of some countries. This is a fact that I do not wish, but that cannot be the reason to stop a process shared by the most within an extenuating and paralyzing mediation. It is necessary to be able to communicate and with the communication to convince the European opinion that we are not only in the presence of a crisis due to the consequences of a financial liberalism without rules, which has produced, in turn, a crisis on the real economy that we are experiencing: it must be explained that billions of people are overpowered on the stage of history by protagonists and not by predestined victims of a development limited to the "first world": it must be made clear that the economic and commercial rebalancing will not allow us to re-establish the status quo ante, we must ask for a new world monetary order and understand that new regional axes are being consolidated in the world. It is necessary to identify strategic alliances not only with the USA and the Mediterranean countries, which also ask Europe to support their development demand and not only with individual countries, whether Japan or India, but also with emerging realities, such as Latin America, Mexico, Central America, the Far East as a whole, China. This calls for a new European protagonism that re-launches the idea of a European homeland and not that of a Patria Europe. This seems to me to be the horizon on which President Hollande looks, to which he told us to look at Chancellor Merkel and which was implicit in his speech to the Chambers on confidence and which you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, reiterated today. However, the new Europe can only come from this Europe. Those who contrast this Europe with a Europe that is not there, those who oppose the Europe of peoples to that of the Member States, those who do not want or do not know how to explain that the ECB is an instrument that has been given free states, governed by freely elected ruling classes, those who support, in order to find an easy consensus in their own country, the idea that it is all the fault of Brussels, do not know that all this involves a nationalist retreat that can only bring poverty and destruction: nothing but a happy decline! Otherwise, a Europe that is based on respect for the generational bond that prohibits stealing the future from our children in order to promote consumerism today, a Europe that completes its economic governance with the banking union and fiscal union, a Europe that puts in place a new Convention that will establish the completion of its institutional architecture, putting the European Parliament not already alongside the governments of the Member States, but above the other institutions, a Europe that gives a shared foreign and military policy is a Europe that can give the answers that everyone expects on this occasion with history. For these reasons we shall be voting in favour of motion for a resolution No 4 (correct text), but we want this message, implicit in the position of Civic Choice and in the policies that we have taken over these two years, to be strongly in the attention of this Government. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u49	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming days President Letta will be in an international meeting discussing two issues that are fundamental for our country and on which the debate has been heated over the years: one of them is energy. I heard from a famous Italian scientist in the introduction to a conference a few years ago the following words: "The development of a country is measured by the increase in energy consumption." These were the words that preceded the debate on a return to nuclear power, which, fortunately, for the second time - and hopefully the last time, the message is clear - the citizens rejected. In the European panorama Italy is the country that has distinguished itself in the extension of the concept of renewable energy to incinerators, introducing the concept of renewable and assimilated sources and, consequently, the so-called CIP6 financing. Two European Commission infringement procedures and four years have taken to limit the damage of that unholy rule. Only in 2009, as an example, of the EUR 4 billion contribution to renewable energy, three went to fund incinerators: we hope this will not happen again. The recommendations of the European Council also tend to suggest the diversification of renewable sources of energy supply: and which country more than Italy could be ahead of others in this field? It is the country in which it is possible to find at the same time and in great quantity the main sources of renewable energy: sun, wind, water, heat of the earth; yet we insist on considering the waste source of energy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The European Commission's contribution to the European Council on 22 May states that investment in renewable energy sources in Europe decreased by 25% in the first half of 2013, with almost complete suspension in countries such as Spain, Italy and France. It is also stated in the graphs annexed to the report that Italy, from 2005 to 2010, doubled the percentage of renewable energy sources (perhaps, considering them also as such), from five to 10%, but we are still a long way from 17%, which is still not enough for 2020, given the many measures to reduce the incentives I was talking about earlier. The most serious fact for our country is the total lack of interest in energy efficiency policy, of which I see no trace in the motion for a resolution. We believe that the best source of renewable energy is reduction, and it is in this area that the greatest resources must be invested. Energy efficiency reduces energy demand, energy import and pollution; it also offers a long-term solution to the problem of fuel shortages and high energy prices. Despite the key role that energy efficiency plays in reducing demand, only a small part of its economic potential is currently being exploited. Suffice it to say that the Energy Performance Directive of 19 May 2010 results from the report which has not yet been transposed by Italy, and the accompanying graphs also show the potential for investment and development in the field of energy efficiency, in particular in buildings, but also the enormous potential, for example, of the dispersion of energy sources, heat and other sources of energy by industries, which could be channeled and channelled so as not to be wasted. The word growth often repeats itself in the motion for a resolution; in a worrying way, identifying it with GDP growth, hyperproductivity and hyperconsummism. In our view, it is the decline, in the positive meaning of the term, the real alternative, and constant and indefinite growth cannot be sustainable. Only one thing grows indefinitely, and it is not benign. The general reference to genuine liberalisation of the internal market worries us when we have not heard of a concept that we are very concerned about: energy democracy, an idea that we hope will also enter the political agenda. The problems are not solved with the same logic as those who created them, Einstein said, and therefore we must dare and think differently. Energy democracy means sharing in the production and saving of energy necessary for one's own livelihood and that of a community; from the concept of simple consumer to that of producer-consumer, developing distribution networks at a reduced distance and even at low voltage; decentralisation of distribution and production from sources of small size, of reduced impact and of reduced cost, but more distributed on the territory. A cultural revolution even before technology. We need a new energy revolution that takes away power from the big multinationals that control big production. Renewable energies bring the concept of energy independence and this is perhaps the most frightening aspect. All this is possible only on one condition: research. Technological research is our future. Only intelligence and intuition, of which we in Italy are rich, can help us overcome the crisis from lack of traditional energy sources, but we do not read anywhere of a national energy plan. On the other hand, although it is not the main theme of tomorrow's meeting, we also read about strategies to combat youth unemployment, forgetting, however, also all those who are no longer young, who are out of the world of work, who have no prospects and who have families behind them. We read, again in the motion for a resolution, of economic and monetary union, punctually declined with very precise initiatives, but few and generic references to a union of rights and a union of peoples, and no word on fiscal compactness. Many have said to beat fists on the European table: punches with hands tied by these instruments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, the European Union has in recent years paid great attention to the problems of tax avoidance and tax evasion, particularly in the Member States covered by financial aid programmes. However, it seems that only today at European level there is an awareness of the importance of some key factors: the importance of joint action on combating and moral suasion aimed at so-called tax havens by the Member States of the Union; the need to adapt Community legislation to new forms of money laundering and to new players in this phenomenon; the need for coordination of fiscal policies at supranational level, aimed at simplifying and standardising governance practices. The Italian case, then, enjoys the idiosyncrasia of a state that feeds an impenetrable fiscal and bureaucratic forest, asking the citizen first to lose himself and then to self-immolate himself. It is the country in which a former President of the Council, who today should sit among these benches but never see, had the courage to claim to feel morally entitled to escape. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In view of this situation, which causes considerable stress to economic operators, when it is not really difficult to carry out their activities, in the Italian case, the best way to prevent tax avoidance is to simplify legislation and bureaucracy. With this in mind, pressure on tax havens to abandon banking secrecy, while introducing forms of limitation and regulation of capital movements to and from States where the sector has been heavily deregulated, becomes a priority. The Digital Agenda, one of the seven flagship initiatives of the Europe 2020 strategy, adopted on 17 June 2010 to continue and innovate the Lisbon Strategy, is needed, as well as to develop a digital single market, also to lead Europe towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, to effectively combat the increase in cybercrime and related cyber-fraud, and not, such as so-called carousel fraud, and the scourge of tax evasion. Tax simplification is necessary, a system in which the Revenue Agency becomes a real partner of companies and taxpayers, which accompanies them in paying taxes due almost as a consultant, with an attitude of cooperation and not repression. Reforms are not only technical but also cultural. Finally, Mr President, we would also have liked to hear about the re-introduction of the crime of fake in the budget and the stricter rules that go in the direction of greater transparency of listed companies, parties and banking institutions, with particular reference to the foundations linked to them. A name for all: Monte dei Paschi di Siena. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u52	BONDI (PdL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of President Renato Schifani and the PdL I would like to explain why we are in favour of the majority motion for a resolution and why we support, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the basic lines of your speech to the Senate today. President Napolitano rightly spoke yesterday of an anguishing and dramatic crisis; a crisis that has social consequences that can lead - let us never forget - to a check and failure of the same democratic life, as unfortunately happened already in other periods of Europe's history. Moreover, the European Union's project was born precisely to guarantee all countries a future of freedom, well-being and peace, not to fall back on the mistakes of the past, which can always be repeated in history, even in forms that we cannot foresee today. From this point of view, this Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has a great responsibility, which we in the PDL are committed not to waste and not to fail. First of all, there are some new facts that our country can use today. The first concerns the economy, as you yourself said. It is now clear to everyone that an economic and budgetary policy imposed by Europe, based solely on rigour, is a resounding and risk-bearing error for the economy and also for democracy. The evidence of the facts has shown that the rigour imposed at a time of crisis could only lead to a serious recession and, ultimately, also a worsening of the public debt of the individual states. On the theoretical level, too, new studies have come to opposing conclusions from predicated and imposed rigorism in recent years, demonstrating that countries with a debt-to-GDP ratio above 90% have an average growth rate of 2.2% instead of negative. The failure of austerity theory and practice certainly does not mean falling into the opposite error of uncontrolled public spending. What we need is an overall balance of initiatives, which puts everything in place. I think that this Government, Mr Letta, has the task of finding virtuous compromises, starting from the content and not from our individual identities, starting from the content and reality, as the Government has shown to be able to do in the first few days. Here is the second positive element that I referred to; another opportunity that we must exploit for the political weight that is recognized in Europe to our country. As she herself pointed out, Europe is becoming increasingly aware that, without genuine political unity, it is nothing. Indeed, it is in danger of failing the path we have taken so far and it is certainly in danger of getting away from the conscience of peoples and citizens. In your inaugural speech and today you mentioned the objective and goal of the United States of Europe and mentioned this a few days ago, in an interview, Mr Bonino. The PdL, with President Silvio Berlusconi, has always been in favour of a Europe with a common foreign policy, defence policy and economic policy. The novelty of these days is Hollande's pronunciation; for the first time in French history, the President of the Republic has abandoned the position of traditional hostility of France to a federated Europe and has called for the birth, by 2015, of a united European Government, with a budget, a sovereign public debt, a common economic, foreign and defence policy, with a banking system and a bank with the powers of all the other central banks. Hollande's draft also provides for the election of the President of Europe with the direct vote of the European people. At this point the word goes to Germany, which has linked the mutualisation of debt to the transfer of sovereignty. Here we go! Italy can, therefore, and must play a fundamental role in this political process that opens up so full of potential. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the task of politics today, the task of true politics: to avoid the risks of social tensions present before us and to solve concrete problems. The task of politics is to open up a new perspective for a future of hope, especially for young people, and to assert the rule of democracy over the chaos and disorder that can arise from an economy and finance left to itself. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the important things and not at the small daily polemics that unfortunately afflict our country, we see that they are more the things that unite us than those that divide us. Moreover - and I conclude - this is the bet of this Government, that President Silvio Berlusconi and the whole PdL are committed to winning. As Members of Parliament, we must all be able to distinguish these days between a policy of politics, a policy of daily skirmishes, unnecessary polemics arising from small problems, and a policy of doing things. If we can do this - the majority, the government, the entire Parliament - politics will win and regain the confidence of the citizens. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u55	TONINI (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my fellow Senators, the President of the Democratic Party Group, Senator Luigi Zanda, is the first signatory to Resolution No 4 (correct text) and it is therefore clear that the Democratic Party is in favour of this resolution. We will also vote in favour of resolution 3 (correct text), proposed by the North League, with a caveat that we allow to express to the colleagues of the League regarding the point at which the Government commits itself to: To promote at national and Community level the need for the involvement of Parliament and the people in all the founding decision-making moments of the European Union. A point that we share in the spirit, although we think it is necessary to specify, at least on our part, that the referendary consultation procedures on international treaties can be consultative in the same way as in 1989. However, this aspect needs to be deepened. With this caveat we will also vote in favour of Resolution No 3 (correct text). My brief speech, Mr President, is above all aimed at expressing strong harmony and solidarity with the undertaking that awaits the President of the Council at the next European Council tomorrow and then at the June European Council, perhaps even more important: strong harmony with his considerations and strong solidarity with his commitment. A harmony that is first and foremost in the spirit with which President Letta is preparing for this important step, a spirit of awareness of the gravity and radicality of the crisis in our country and the fact that an important part of his reasons, therefore also of the possible ways out, is found in Europe. The community of destiny between Italy and Europe is now so strong that it is unthinkable to solve the Italian crisis without a European perspective, just as it is unthinkable to emerge from the crisis that crosses Europe, its institutions and its policies without the recovery of a strong and important role of our country. And here are the four key words that I would like to mention in the introduction of the speech by the President of the Letta Council who see a strong sharing on our part. The first key word is "Parliament": a strong solidarity between the Government and Parliament in this difficult but decisive phase of relaunching the European project and the role of Italy in the European project. Parliament's involvement is a necessary fact, but it is also a great and important negotiating resource. As President Letta said in his reply, we have heard so many times that other Heads of Government (in particular, I think of Chancellor Merkel) have placed on the constraints dictated by their respective parliaments. Well, Italy also has a parliament, and the Italian Government has to deal with a parliament that wants to say its own in the negotiation process through and with its government. The second keyword is "belief." Over the last two years - yes, Mr Bondi, I also put an important part of the final phase of the Berlusconi Government - Italy has made difficult decisions in a widely shared way, and has painstakingly regained, at the price of great sacrifices, its credibility in Europe. Today the sign of this renewed credibility lies in a crucial, symbolic but also very practical point: it is the closure of the infringement procedure for excessive deficits. This is the fundamental primary objective that the Government has rightly set out as an essential objective and that we fully share in solidarity. The third keyword is "reform." The pact behind the single currency is a Stability and Growth Pact. We know that stability has often rewarded growth in recent years and that attention to stability has prevailed rather than to growth. There is only one way - in my view - to reconcile the dimension of stability with growth, and that is what we call reforms: we need reforms and not just a short-term policy. Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, a great Europeanist, recalled the tyranny of the short view and how - if we want to face the fundamental problems of our country and Europe - we must regain the ability to look far, to look at the long breath, to make politics of breath. Well, only reforms can enable us at national level to overcome that gap, that fall in total productivity of factors (mostly the result of poor public spending that needs to be reformed in order to help us make growth and social equality, which is not the case today, and on the other hand, only reforms at European level can allow us to recover space for real growth. A policy of rigour at the level of individual states is unacceptable if there is no expansionary policy at European level. That's what's missing. We must not deny the policies of rigour and fiscal discipline at the level of individual states, but must accompany them (which has not been done so far) with policies of an expansive type - pass me the word - Keynesian at European and continental level. Here is the last and decisive It has resonated in this House today with a force and an emphasis that we have not remembered for a long time, and we are also grateful to President Letta for that. There are large spaces for an initiative by Italy in this direction that it must take as a strong objective of its initiative. There have been important openings of Germany in recent months, and of President Hollande's France in recent days that must be resumed and relaunched by our country: only a political Europe, a Europe that can speak to the peoples, a Europe that knows how to assume itself as the frontier of a new democratic horizon, can allow the European peoples to remain protagonists in the present century. Yesterday an important meeting took place between two prime ministers who together represent almost half of humanity: the Chinese Prime Minister and the Indian Prime Minister met on behalf of something like two and a half billion human beings. It is clear that in the face of a world that changes in this way, with this speed, only Europe as political unity, as European United States, can remain the protagonist of the construction of the future that we want, a future of peace, that makes our planet habitable in peace and justice at international level. This is what we must leave to our children and grandchildren, this collective joint venture: not the debt, not the tiredness of an aged Europe, but the strength and freshness of a Europe that wants to look at the future of the planet as a protagonist. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Torrisi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u56	You asked the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u57	Mr President, I am only speaking because it is my duty to make a clarification, which obviously follows the speech that has just been made. The favourable opinion I have given on motion for a resolution No 3 (correct text) implies that the transition to the referendum must, of course, take account of the constitutional provisions in force in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u58	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I put to the vote motion for a resolution No 2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3 (correct text). Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion for a resolution No 3 (correct text) tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 279 Senators voting 278 Majority 140 Favorables 220 Contrars 53 Absent 5]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4 (correct text). Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Resolution No 4 (correct text), tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 280 Senators voting 279 Majority 140 Favorable 210 Contrari 48 Absent 21]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u61	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to mention a partially well-known issue. In Trentino, in these last periods, two thirds of the average rainfalls that normally fall in a year have fallen. 13.12 (Follow DIVINE). There is no comparable situation in Trentino to that of Veneto, which seems to me much more serious and more serious, but we have a series of circumscribed events of as much gravity, spread a bit like leopard. I would like to draw attention to the issue of Lake Caldonazzo, whose waters are today at an altitude of 170 cm above the level of guard: all economic activities overlooking the lake are literally invaded and substantially underwater. There is not only the issue of hospitality and tourism, because agriculture also suffers: because of the flooding, in fact, all the crops of potatoes, apples and cherries are suffering major damage. What is of interest at this time is the issue of flooding. We have an economy that in almost all sectors is struggling and continues to manage; the tourist seasons are getting thinner and the tourism operators, who mostly work at survival levels, are waiting for this moment and this burion to pass. The events that I am talking about here have therefore been a real disaster for this sector, which has affected the season - and this is already an important aspect - but which also threatens to undermine the very survival of all these economic activities. We therefore wanted to ask the Presidency to urge the Government to carry out such assessments. Veneto, strongly penalized, will demand the state of natural calamity, while Trentino, in particular for its part that affects all the municipalities overlooking the lake of Caldonazzo, only asks that the Government, if it considers to allocate economic aid and support in the context of the state of calamity, perimeter the geographical area subject to these last events, insert or take into consideration also those microareas. Trentino, in fact, although it has direct power and powers in the matter of civil protection such as to be able to issue a decree that affects its territories, could operate only in terms of direct economic aid; not having the tax lever, instead it could not provide for delays and aids in tax matters, as sometimes it tends to do, shifting duties or deadlines. This is the only objective of my speech: to urge that this too be taken into account. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u64	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Madam President, as you know, over the weekend in Veneto there have been abundant rainfalls, which have caused very difficult situations, especially in the area of Verona, Padua and Vicenza. This is not the first time, because when rainfall occurs of this nature, unfortunately the problem is exacerbated especially in our regions (Veneto, Lombardy and Piedmont), but not only, since - as we know - there is a problem of hydrogeological failure at national level. In Veneto, unfortunately, we also had a death in Verona and there are damages in the tourist and agricultural sectors, both to people and to things. It is precisely today that we have tabled a question, because we want to stress the repetition and frequency of these events. The problems in our territories, from a first evaluation made by the Civil Protection, will lead to considerable damage, which between Piedmont, Lombardy and Veneto can be estimated in about 1 billion euros. Let us remember that the 2010 event has already caused further damage, many of which have not been repaid to those who have suffered them. I would therefore like to stress, with this speech, that it is time for the Government to play its part, allocating funds not only in certain areas of Italy but also in the regions of the North, and above all to give local authorities, provinces and regions the opportunity to carry out work on the required or urgent rolling areas, freeing them from the Stability Pact. This is a problem that arises every time such damage occurs: the municipalities, the provinces and the regions intervene, except then find themselves in the absurd position of having to serve also the Stability Pact of the local authorities. We therefore urgently call on the Government to accept this state of disaster and also to resolve the problem of the Stability Pact and the funds. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u67	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, I too am speaking about the great floods that have hit large areas of Northern Italy. I would like to highlight two aspects, the first of which is of a regulatory nature, because most of the surveys involved small watercourses, for which maintenance is often the responsibility of private individuals. Well, the mayors have very little chance of imposing on private individuals to do their duty, nor, let alone, can they do the necessary work of empire, because they risk being paid by private individuals themselves - if that's right - with delays of years, between appeals and appeals. But the State is also unarmed for the great works: the expansion basins of Bacchiglione - fundamental to protect Vicenza and Padua from floods like last week and 2010 - are blocked for three years by beghe on the expropriation of the land and on the methods of payment of future damages to the crops. The money is there, the plans are there, but you can't leave. The same happens for the Treviso basins for the Muson dei Sassi stream. Where these basins were built, for example in some areas of high Padua and Venetian, last week the rivers were not exondated, unlike what happened a few years ago, when these basins were still not there. The second point is of a technical and economic nature. The hydraulic system is increasingly fragile, in a territory often compromised by the cementification and excessive constraint to which the water is subjected. Most of the interventions are the responsibility of the Regions, through the different bodies coordinated by them. Hydraulic operations cost, both maintenance and innovative ones. But in addition to money, it is necessary to have, within the public administration, rich and well sedimented technical skills, which are built with a continuous system of recruitment and training. If the whole system is chronically underfunded, on the one hand the Region will not be able to equip itself with a technical class to the height of the challenge, on the other it will be forced to thin the ordinary maintenance and to defer or suspend the construction of the new works. Until the next flood. Then there is the paradox, mentioned by my colleague Mr Bitonci, of municipalities and regions that have resources, but cannot spend them. The water does not make discounts, on the contrary it has much more salty accounts than those that should have been paid with an adequate preventive activity. It is our responsibility to act on both these fronts, in Parliament and in the Government, of the hydraulic emergency. More authority must be given to the state, in order to make the interest of many prevail in short time over that of the few. It is also necessary to invest resources on the maintenance and consolidation of the water network, to protect the good of all, but also to avoid spending much more, in the following years, to remedy the disasters caused by floods.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u70	Mussolini (PdL). Madam President, today I would like to touch on a subject that will have to be dealt with in depth in this House, namely the childhood alarm, the child poverty alarm. Italy is at the last place in Europe: children who cannot be cured because in poverty, who cannot prevent even diseases. That is to say, it is also a social alarm. In the last legislature we have launched the law n. 219 of 10 December 2012 that awaits from the Government the enactment of legislative decrees implementing. It is very important to evaluate and control why children are in the facilities; the Regions do not even have a list of their presence in such structures; there are no controls by ASLs and municipalities; all too often these children are torn from families, despite the fact that the law provides for the right of the child to live in the family and maintain interpersonal relations with grandparents, uncles and relatives. The children are instead torn from their families, put in these structures, that we cannot call family houses, because they are not, and they cost very much, that is, up to 400 euros per day. I do not understand why (this is common sense) they do not help the poor families, instead of giving money to such facilities, leaving children within their own family. We can also make a motion here in the Senate to address these issues and I hope that as soon as possible the Government will be able to issue these implementing decrees, because the law we have approved is a delegated law. It is really a childhood emergency; just today there is the day of Save the children, in which it is said how much we are stealing from children in terms of education, health and work. There is therefore not only an emergency work of young people, but there are above all children who are paying the highest price of this crisis. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and the Razzi and Giannini senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u73	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor briefly to report to this House and to the Government the dramatic environmental and health situation in the area of Bussi sul Tirino, in the province of Pescara. It is the historic site of one of the most polluted chemical poles in Italy: here, in fact, for many years, toxic and carcinogenic substances have been illegally disposed of, such as chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, trichlorobenzenes from the chemical plants in the area. The extreme gravity of the situation has also recently been confirmed by the WWF which, spreading data of the site's monitoring activity, has without means labeled the picture as uncomfortable. In the analyses made and related to the industrial site - to the spy wells downstream of the site and to those located in the valley of Pescara - there are notable and multiple exceedances of the concentration thresholds of contamination, both of the surface layer, and of the deep one, as well as of the soils, with consequent serious risks to the health of the citizens. In addition, the site contains a quantity of dioxin, non-degradable material, approximately 24 times higher than the permitted rate, which helps to contaminate the entire area even more. Leaving aside the judicial aspect of the matter, which sees the referral to trial by the judge for the preliminary hearing of Pescara of 19 people, especially managers of the regional authorities and water management of the Montedison Group for the crime of pollution, environmental disaster and water poisoning, I ask in this House an immediate intervention of the Government for the reclamation of the territory of Bussi sul Tirino and for the protection of the health of the Abruzzo citizens, put strongly at risk for many years. Currently the waste remains deposited in the valley, covered by a tarpaulin and, in addition to an immediate reclamation (for which more than 50 million would be needed), it is necessary to ascertain the responsibilities of the old and new owners, also for the purpose of compensation. We must intervene without hesitation. In conclusion, it must necessarily and quickly proceed to a scrupulous and concrete reclamation of the area in the exclusive interest of the health of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u74	The end-of-session speeches have thus ended. As the Conference of the Leaders is under way, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the session for the communication to the Assembly of the decisions taken. (The sitting was suspended at 13.29 a.m. and resumed at 13.51 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u75	I inform you that, following the determinations of the Conference of Leaders, the meeting of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which has already been convened at 2 p.m., is postponed until a date which will subsequently be communicated. The calendar for next week will be communicated later.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u78	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking to an empty Chamber, but it does not matter: I am doing it to stay in the proceedings. As I said at the Conference of the Leaders, we are opposed to this extension, considering that too much time has already been wasted on the convening of a fundamental Junta, which will judge on the validity of the elections and on the validity of the admissions of those who have been elected and, in particular, also on the request from the majority, which calls for an extension for oppositions to reach an agreement. It seems to us to be a coercion of one's will towards other groups. So we are opposed to this choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u79	We take note of that, Senator Crimes. To be precise, since the meeting of the Conference of Leaders is not public, I would remind you that not only did the majority groups subscribe to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u82	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to make a small correction, if you will allow me, in relation to what has been said. The Conference of Leaders may not intervene in connection with the convening of the Board for the election of the Bureau. It is a request that has come through the Group Leaders, to which the President has decided to join: but the decision is up to the President alone. So the Leaders just pointed out their sensitivity. Speaking of sensitivity, however, I wonder (I must stress this too) how can a Junta that was called for at 2 p.m. be deconsecrated at 1,53 p.m.? Frankly it seems indelicate and above all unorthodox that this request comes from the majorities, who evidently have decided, even if by practice these organisms belong to the oppositions, to choose the most welcome member among the oppositions; and this makes me reflect on what is the current majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u83	We take note of the clarification that the power is of the President. However, I must point out that the Conference of the Leaders on this point has been heard and that a number of groups have suggested the need to have a general picture of the arrangements for the so-called guarantee committees, which are in practice attributed to the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-24.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 3.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.54 p.m.
