ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 12 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (11:10) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1014. The rapporteur, Senator Marcucci, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u5	Mr President, Decree-Law No 91 of 8 August 2013 should be warmly welcomed, because after many years it is the first emergency measure devoted entirely to cultural goods and activities, testifying to the strong interest of the Government in the sector, as well as to the sectors of knowledge, rightly excluded from the linear cuts with which the abolition of the IMU has been covered. Decree No 91, divided into three Heads, therefore addresses many issues which have long been pending and can also provide an opportunity to resolve further problems relating to the sector which, for various reasons, have not entered into the original drafting of the measure. It should be stressed that the decree, although it has economic burdens mainly from the year 2014, certainly meets the requirements of necessity and urgency, as acknowledged by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, given that it allows the administration to organize itself in time to ensure prompt operation of the measures contained in it. Chapter I contains urgent provisions for the protection, restoration and enhancement of Italian cultural heritage and includes Articles 1 to 6. Article 1 stated rules to speed up the realization of the Grande Progetto Pompei and for urban regeneration, environmental redevelopment and valorization of the Palace of Caserta and the Museum of Naples... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, allow the rapporteur to carry out his report under acceptable conditions. Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. ...as well as for the promotion of the tourist-cultural path of the Bourbon residences. With regard to Pompeii, it should be remembered that in recent years there have been many paths in order to improve the governance of the site and optimize its management. Unfortunately, however, none of the solutions have so far given the results hoped for, as the Commission recently verified in the course of a survey, aimed precisely at deepening the main critical profiles. Even the recent allocation of a substantial share of European funding, through the Grande Progetto Pompei, runs the risk of being thwarted by bureaucratic delays that prevent compliance with the necessary timing. It must therefore be acknowledged that the Government has assumed responsibility for some important legal changes, through which it trusts to achieve better results. First, there is a single manager, called Project Director-General, for the implementation of the extraordinary programme of interventions intended for Pompeii, pursuant to Decree-Law No 34 of 31 March 2011. The Project Director-General shall be assisted by a support structure specifically consisting of a maximum of twenty staff units of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, Tourism and other central administrations, as well as five experts in the subjects concerned. He has the task of defining and approving the project elaborations of the restoration and restoration interventions preparatory to the prompt implementation of the "Grande Progetto Pompei" (Grande Progetto Pompei). Article 1 also constitutes the Grand Pompeii Unit, with the task of bringing together all the administrative decisions necessary for the implementation of the plans, projects and instrumental interventions in order to enable the economic and social revival and the environmental and urban regeneration of the municipalities concerned by the UNESCO site management plan. The legal representative of the Unit is the director who makes use of a Management Committee - in this regard the Commission has a series of amending proposals, which we will examine later, which tend to improve the rationality of governance itself - composed of the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism (or a delegate), the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, the President of the Campania Region and that of the Province of Naples, as well as the Mayors of the Municipalities concerned. The Unit is also responsible for the promotion and solicitation of liberal grants, sponsorships and innovative forms of public-private partnership. Finally, the Unit may arrange for the use of young trainees. Article 1 of the decree also contains an extremely important change in the organization of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. It provides the institution of the special superintendence for the archaeological goods of Pompeii, Herculaneum and Stabia, which succeeds the special superintendence for the archaeological goods of Naples and Pompeii, with scope limited to the only archaeological areas indicated. To the special superintendence for the historical, artistic and ethno-anthropological heritage and for the museum pole of the city of Naples are entrusted instead the tasks of protection and management of the Reggia of Caserta, to this end changing the name accordingly. This is certainly a significant change, which contradicts the process of amalgamation carried out in recent years and for which the Government assumes full responsibility. The Commission has approved several amendments which meet the requirements for transparency and publicity of the acts carried out by the Director-General of the project and for defining the requirements for the appointment of the project, which must come from the ranks of the administration of the State and must not have had past convictions for crimes against the public administration. The Commission has also approved, with an amendment, the position of the Deputy Director, without any additional burden. Article 2 contains urgent measures for the continuation of the activities of inventorying and digitization of Italian cultural heritage and for the implementation of the project "500 young people for culture": with this standard the Ministry intends to continue the recovery of digital resources and the digitization of new content for the creation of digital collections of museums and realize the interoperability of important databases with the Italian Cultural System. For the implementation of the programme there is a training and training plan for 500 young people, additional to the 1000 under the Decree-Law on Youth Employment, which will be recruited through public selection. In order to enable the skills acquired to be spent later, an amendment approved by the Commission provides that, at the end of the traineeship, participants are to be awarded a final certificate valid as a title at the time of subsequent selections by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. Article 2-a, introduced by the Commission, establishes a regime for the protection and safeguard of traditional historic shops in accordance with the Unesco Conventions. Article 3 lays down urgent financial provisions to ensure the regular opening to the public of institutions and places of culture. It is recalled that the financial law for 2008 had arranged for the proceeds of the ticketing to be transferred to the Ministry of Economy and reallocated only partially - very partially, I add - to the administration of cultural assets. The decree in question repeals this provision and very appropriately re-introduces the full allocation to cultural goods of the revenue produced by the places of culture, thus generalizing the experience already in place in the museums. In this way we are confident that we can deal with some critical issues, such as the impossibility of a regular opening to the public of cultural sites, caused by the lack of resources for the necessary staff. Finally, a clarification on the recent law on the qualification of restorers has been approved in this article. Article 4 aims to promote the development of libraries and archives, as well as the promotion of recitation and reading, including the possibility of free and free access to reading works and publications containing publicly funded research. The rule also extends the hypotheses in which the execution of a work is not considered public by including libraries and, thanks to an amendment approved by the Commission, also archives and museums, among the places where the representation of the work is not to be considered public, if it is carried out for the purposes of cultural promotion and valorisation of the work. Other amendments adopted by the Commission involve integrating funding for cultural institutions, but also laying down rules on the decorum of areas of cultural value and on the recognition of the cultural and historical value of carnival. Article 5 lays down urgent provisions for the implementation of the project "New Uffizi" for the creation of the National Museum of Italian Judaism and the Shoah and for further protection measures. These are measures of great value and urgency, taking into account the absolute international importance of the cultural sites involved and the need for their work to be started and completed. In particular, in order to allow the continuation of the project "New Uffizi" the decree authorizes an expenditure of 8 million euros. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the new Uffizi project, approved in 2004, will lead to the doubling of the exhibition area. As for the National Museum of Italian Judaism and the Shoah, it was established in Ferrara in 2003 in order to recognize and enhance the bimillennial Jewish presence in Italy. Compared to a total cost of intervention of € 40,793,000, the total financing still considered necessary is € 31,793,000, of which € 30.012,000 for the so-called second lot and € 1,781,000 for the preparation of the necessary scenic apparatus. The norm finances with 4 million euros part of the expenses previewed for the second lot, that consists in the construction of the important body of entrance to the Museum, which would complete the external settlement. The Commission has amended Article 5 by including additional funds available to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities also for an important work, funded in Rome, the Mausoleum of Augustus. Article 6 contains urgent provisions for the creation of production centres for contemporary art for young artists, both Italian and other nationalities, so that a great heritage of creative talents does not end up being irremediably lost because of the impossibility for young people to have the necessary structures in which to grow and develop ideas and artistic contents. To this end, it is expected that immovable property, which is not suitable for other institutional purposes, owned by the State and by national public bodies, will be allocated to them, subject, however, to conditions that are not sufficiently facilitated. We stress this to the Government, because the measure risks not being incisive in this area, as we believe it should be. Moreover, with reference to the promotion of contemporary art, the Commission has stabilized, reducing it, the financing of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Rome. Turning to Chapter II, which contains rules for the revival of cinema, musical activities and live entertainment, I should like first of all to point out Article 7, which contains urgent measures for the promotion of the music of young emerging artists and composers, introducing for the first time a package of organic measures to tax development costs, production, digitization and promotion of phonographic recordings or music videoclips for the first or second works of new talents. The rules are inspired by the tax credit film, which in these first four years of implementation has proved itself positive. The Commission has also introduced simplification rules for live performances, in particular for those up to a maximum of 200 participants, in respect of which the licence provided for in the Single Public Safety Act will have to be replaced by a certified activity reporting, thus with a strong bureaucratic simplification. Article 8 has been stable since 2014, and no longer linked to three-year extensions (I highlight the importance of this), the discipline of cinema tax credit, the deadline of which is currently 31 December 2014. This is a very important rule, partly because the resources allocated for this purpose for 2013 are exhausted and 2014 are not sufficient. In any event, the stabilisation rule is subject to the authorisation of the European Commission which the Ministry has undertaken to apply for. The Commission has introduced the extension of the effectiveness of the legislation to audiovisual and fiction, increasing the financial allocations. This is a long-awaited rule that industry will be able to give an important boost to cinema and audiovisual, both in terms of economic development and production of new and innovative products. The 7th Commission also approved an amendment to the draft law providing for the creation at the MIBACT of an operational technical table in order to optimise Italy's ability to access the measures supporting the cultural and creative industry of the Creative Europe Programme 2014-2020. Article 9 lays down urgent provisions to ensure the transparency, simplification and effectiveness of the system of public contribution to entertainment and cinema. Currently, the allocation of contributions to live entertainment activities is made upon submission of applications by the bodies concerned, with evaluation of the programmes and their financial estimates for the current year. In order to allow the liquidity needed to achieve the artistic objectives, the administration can provide up to 80% of the last contribution allocated. Once the activity has been entirely carried out and correctly reported, the administration arranges to pay the amount of the contribution, obviously deducting the quotas already paid in advance. In frequent cases of abnormal estimates of the activity actually carried out, the administration is hardly able to recover the amount of the allocation and allocate it to other bodies: most of the time it must limit itself to considering lost the sums in question. It is therefore preferable to refer to the activities carried out and reported for the solar year/exercise. However, the Commission considered it appropriate to specify that the contributions will not be "assigned" at the end of the season, but at the beginning of the season and subsequently "welded" and that they will be paid at the end of the season once the commitments made at the time of the request have been verified. A second amendment adopted concerns the reduction of the measure of interest on entertainment organisations, associations and foundations. Article 9 also lays down provisions necessary for transparency in the entertainment sector, providing that the bodies financed by the FUS shall publish and update certain information relating to the holders of top administrative and artistic positions, managerial positions, as well as collaboration or advice. Finally, the requests submitted to the Directorates-General for Cinema and Live Show are exempted from the stamp tax in order to facilitate the use of online platforms. Article 10 ensures the continued operation of the theatres and public and private bodies operating in the field of cultural goods and activities, reducing the expenditure cuts foreseen for intermediate consumption towards all entities included in the ISTAT list. These institutions, in fact, operate in a very particular sector where cutting intermediate consumption is difficult to implement and, above all, puts their very existence at serious risk. These are, in particular, all lyrical-symphonic foundations, as well as eleven entities supervised by MIBACT and the seventeen public stable theatres. On this I believe that, in this House, with the support of the Government, additional proposals must be made to meet the absolute need of these cultural institutions. Article 11 calls for urgent provisions for the rehabilitation and recovery of lyrical-symphonic foundations that are being recorded in recent years, one of the most serious economic and financial crises of their long life: the original lack of capitalization, already present with the 1996 reform that transformed the lyric institutions into foundations under private law, and the increasing production costs (primarily those of the staff), which have not found in the decrease of the Single Fund for the show adequate financial support, currently lead to deep structural crises, evident especially in the extraordinary administration to which three of these important bodies are subjected. The current total debt can now be estimated at around 370 million euros. The aim of the rule is to immediately start the reorganization of the management of foundations most compromised in economic-financial and capital terms, offering to the institutions able to advance a plan of return from debt and of total reorganization of the management a financing of revolving character, for the maximum duration of 30 years, that totals, on the two annual ones, to 75 million euros. The use of substantial financial resources by the State means that the consolidation action is coordinated by a figure representing at central level the demands and needs of all the foundations involved in the recovery plan: the Government will therefore have to appoint an extraordinary commissioner, appointed to analyse and evaluate the plans, to supervise their implementation, to demand possible additions and changes, strictly respecting the agreed deadlines. The general strategy of the measure cannot ignore the timely assessment of the urgent needs of the institutions in immediate liquidity crisis: the rule provides that, in the more than perfecting of the recovery plan, already from the year 2013 a quota of 24 million euros - part of the 75 - can be advanced from the Ministry, on indication of the extraordinary commissioner, to the foundations in greater difficulty. In the case of institutions in crisis that have not entered into negotiations for debt restructuring, the sanction of compulsory administrative winding-up is provided for, together with the recovery of the financial advances granted. With regard to the destination of redundant staff, it is not possible, in the state of the proceedings, to determine the exact size of the business cost of which the foundation would be liberated by the rehabilitation plans, since the reduction of staff is elastic (up to a maximum of 50 per cent). Article 11 also addresses some issues relating to the governance of lyrical-symphonic foundations, dictating more appropriate forms of control of management acts and verification of the economic and financial sustainability of certain expenditures. It is therefore necessary to adapt the statutes of the institutions by 31 December (term subsequently amended by the Commission), providing for an organisational structure with a pre-established set of bodies (president, governing body, management body, validation body of the acts adopted by the management body). Participation in the Board of Directors of the private founding members is expected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, I invite you to conclude. Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Excuse me, I come to the conclusion. Finally, Chapter III of the measure provides for urgent provisions to ensure efficient resources for the system of cultural assets and activities. In particular, it is intended to facilitate the dissemination of donations of moderate value, initially EUR 5,000, increased within the Commission to EUR 10,000. Article 13 restores the collegial bodies operating at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. Finally, Articles 14 and 15 of the measure relate to financial cover. This measure is the result of a great effort by the Government, which shows attention to the world of culture, considering culture also a vehicle of economic development. Parliament, with the work of the Commission, which from my point of view improved the text of the decree, has made an essential contribution. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u7	Mr President, our Group welcomes this decree-law as an important and positive first step because after many years we return to investing in culture, paying attention to emergencies, to the need to safeguard our heritage, but also to invest in young people in the field of culture: as the rapporteur, Senator Marcucci, has already said, various articles contain forecasts that look at the possibility that young Italians can become protagonists of this revival. It is often said in conferences and declarations that culture and cultural heritage are the engines of the development of our underrated country, which could make a difference even in a globalized world. All this is true, but it does not happen by itself. In the meantime, it doesn't always happen and, however, it doesn't happen by itself. We must support this process, we must push in the direction of support for cultural heritage, and this has not been done for many years. I had the opportunity, even personally, to gather concerns and impressions, also on the international scene, about the fact that our country was wasting one of its fundamental cards: that, by disinvesting on culture or neglecting its heritage, it was betraying its global mission. I think that this decree-law should be hailed as a reversal of the trend, with the hope of being able to do more in the coming years, also because the resources made available are not huge. Personally and on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to say that we have participated in the debate in the Commission and we will also do so in this House, stressing the new phase that opens up and the possibilities of dynamicizing all our territories, also because the forecasts contained in the various articles will call local authorities, associations, cultural groups and citizenship all to a commitment to be ready with their own projects and ideas to set themselves in the direction of change and innovation. Of course not everything is resolved: with this decree-law we have not solved all the issues. I only want to address three points in order to give the idea of the remaining problems, and I will conclude my speech with that. The first question is that many other points remain uncovered after the approval of this decree-law that gives solution to various aspects, but of course many others remain uncovered. It will take other resources, it will take years, but we must continue in this direction. It must be understood that at the moment when the message is launched that on the cultural heritage, on the heritage you come back to invest many, shaking off the inertia and also a certain apathy that has manifested itself in recent years, they will be able to get back in motion and make new projects. This is a good thing, but of course it will determine the need to invest other resources, and there are so many issues that are still being discovered, as we will also see from the debate that will take place in this House. The second point is that we will also need a reorganization of the cultural system: we cannot just inject resources and liquidity, we also need a reorganization. There is ample scope for savings in many sectors: modernisation, reorganisation, but also the ability to produce coordination and synergy between different bodies (too many in the field of culture travel on their own, hoping that their luck also depends on the misfortune of others). So we'll have to regroup. This is evident in Article 11, dedicated to symphonic lyrical foundations. The decree-law before us today indicates a severe way of reorganization that must be respected, because the objective is not to produce new debt so that the investments made now can calm the situation of difficulty. Finally, the more general theme: the attention to emergencies, obviously due to not make our heritage decay, must not make us forget that in the world of culture, associations and activities there are also many things that work, that perhaps cost little and that nevertheless need attention. Let me give just one example: alongside the lyrical-symphonic foundations, which are in serious difficulty, there are many associations, such as the ICO (concert-orchestral institutions), the theatres of tradition, etc., which may not have all those debts but which are very difficult to move forward. Let us not pass on the idea that those who do debt see an emergency plan going forward and those who, instead, go on with effort, perhaps keeping their budgets in a precarious balance, do not receive the necessary attention. It will therefore take a general plan of attention, even in the near future. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by stressing the point that we are interested to make. This is a first step that goes in the right direction: we must support it, and from there we must work so that in the coming years there can be further interventions, from the Government but also from the whole of our society. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Marin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u8	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, here we go again. Here we are, with a new attempt to fill structural problems that governments, your enlightened governments, have created, from year to year, with reforms and counter-reforms, to overcome the damage that is now almost irreversible from so many points of view. I am not accustomed to your exercises and your legislative habits, but I would like to quickly recall some of the issues that have been addressed so far in this parliamentary term since the broad (in fact, I would say very broad) views. A decree to authorize the payment of debts: but do not the debts pay only for the fact that they have contracts? Doesn't our economic system put debt first? It certainly is, but to the detriment of the little ones and the honest ones. But where does the public debt come from, if not from a political system that has been rewarding the clever, the cunning, the evador for years? Do we extort taxes not to end and then are we proud and proud to issue a decree to pay part of the debts contracted? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Isn't the decree emptying prisons due to Mother Europe (although, these days, it would be better to call it stepmother), who fined us? But did we solve the problem? No, as usual; the problem is still there, as is Article 27 of our Constitution, which lies unheard and lonely. Here we go. To try to save the salvageable in this structural crisis, where we don't even have the photocopies paper in your children's schools and where the support teachers are half of those who serve; but in a few years, we can take our children on a trip to show them the F35, the fruit of our millenary culture! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are here to think about culture, to take care of culture, to provide for culture, culture... Italy cradle of civilization. Let's not be joking. Don't make us laugh! If we had always thought of culture and, above all, exercised it, we would have the public debt zeroed. If that were the case, we would have tourism as the country's main entry fund [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If so, our children would know the art and have the strength of democratic consciousness, distinguishing freedom of thought from economic dependence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let us remember that democracy is closely linked to the culture and education of a people: "Ignorance is the embarrassment of the slave people: the science of the free" [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But here we have stopped to the culture of telequiz and gossip, for thirty years present in the bad teacher of commercial political television. The Constitution, in Article 9, recognizes that: "The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific research" and that it protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation." The two dimensions, research and heritage, must be considered dynamically interwoven. It follows that the protection of the heritage cannot be understood only in the commercial or entrepreneurial sense, but must bring educational and emancipatory benefits to each citizen, rather giving greater opportunities through school and qualified employment. That art is a great value, but who understands it? Organized crime. The third most lucrative market, after weapons and drugs, is illicit trafficking in works of art, with global profits estimated at around eight billion euros. The investment or reinvestment of illicit capital in art is one of the safest, because it does not lose value. They figured it out, they did. We pay for the money we have badly spent and we pay Europe for what we have not done. We pay duty for the past and we pay pledge for the future... what do we have left? We're chasing and chasing. How long are we gonna keep doing this? How long does it take to understand that this is not the right step? Let's start to change the pace and let's do it in defense of what distinguishes us in the world, the culture, which originates from the genius that identifies us. We are dealing here and now only because, as usual, the teacher Europe has threatened to spank us again. We then arrive at the decree culture, born in the room of the buttons and, I hope well, not in the room of the loot. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The decree, called "Culture value" (Culture value) is only a small step in supporting culture and promoting access to knowledge. A wall collapses by 2,000 years? Of course, because he is old, he will have said what he thinks that with culture you do not eat. "Toh, the Canova Priamo has fallen..." Well, take the shovel, said one of them. The measure arises from the need to give a response to certain emergencies, such as the enhancement of Pompeii. In this regard, the new figure of the Director-General is introduced, with the task of managing the work, defining the times of implementation and coordinating a team of officials and experts. However, we cannot allow this disappearance of armchairs. The division of power continues and the problem is the parties, who occupied all the institutions, starting with the Government, and continue to do so, with dramatic results: Enrico Berlinguer reminds us of it in 1981 with a famous sentence. My senators, leave the ship's guide, because there is more pride in keeping it straight than in sending it to beat and then say that you are good at pulling it up: meanwhile the dead remain. Get this Italy up, please. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I would ask that the remainder of my speech be appended to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u10	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u11	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u12	Mr President, apart from this last speech, I would like to refer to the remarks made by Mr Martini after the words of the rapporteur, Mr Marcucci. Senator Martini spoke of a meritorious reversal of the trend compared to so much inattention to the sector, but he also noted that the resources are still scarce and that, therefore, the temptation of a frankly unjustified triumphalism should be avoided. I also acknowledge my colleague and, if he allows me, my friend Marcucci, that he has avoided this state of mind in taking on the role of rapporteur. The truth is that this text - I address to the representative of the Government - fails from a normative point of view to reverse a trend line - in my view deliteria - that in the last ten years has struck the Roman College, which certainly, even at the time when it was a secret library of the Jesuits could never be mistaken for a room of the loot, nor of the buttons. The Spanish Ministry was born in the Senate, overturning what had been the indications of the Commission Franceschini, who did not propose a Ministry as much as an autonomous Agency. Instead, in the Moro Government, in the mid-seventies, a Ministry returned to the age of the Constituent, to the old Undersecretary of Ragghianti. In the last ten years, however, we have witnessed a progressive expansion of the Ministry's spectrum of competences: cinema, entertainment, in some periods even sport, until it became a Ministry of confused state participations and supervision, to which it paid in parallel a reduction, I do not mean a mortification (but when the reduction is too strong mortification), of the activities of protection of the cultural heritage, such as those of Ragghianti or Spadolini. I was pleased to hear from Senator Marcucci that the Commission has tried, even in a paragraph on archives and libraries, to recover this spirit as far as possible. The disease then lies in the reduction of staff, of that technical-scientific staff that constitutes the identity and originality of the Ministry. What was the point, friends and colleagues from the left, of what the Vice-President of the Prodi Government, Mr Veltroni, did, perhaps meritoriously, and Minister of the sector, when he took this Ministry away from Mr Bassanini's axe, but at the same time began to transform it into a sprout of Parmesan cheese without resources and with competitions for technical and scientific staff blocked by at least two generations? The very rescue of the lyrical-symphonic foundations, which are necessary, urgent and indispensable (I am aware of this, and on this we will see, when we arrive at the article dealing with it, the amendments proposed by the Commission) now absorb much more resources than those intended for real cultural goods. Recapitulate: there is Pompeii and there are the New Uffizi (1 plus 7 million euros, if I took well notes), there is the Museum of the Shoah of Ferrara (1 plus 3 million euros) and there are only 2 million euros for urgent interventions of protection in the years 2013 and 2014. Mr Martini is more than right: these are inadequate figures, in some respects mortifying, also because - I say this without any moralism, and although I am a liberal, not even with excesses of liberalism - the organizations and enterprises operating in cinema and entertainment are largely assisted by the State. Disappear from the balance sheet of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, at the same time, the state contributions for restorations of cultural assets, palaces and historical residences, made by the owners. Honourable representative of the Government, with the utmost respect, when I sometimes hear about synergies between private and public, it seems to me then to be at a conference of professors of liberalism and that's it. There is then, once again - it has found the friend Marcucci - the philosophy of the extraordinary plan and of the extraordinary intervention, through the use of the European Funds and the co-financings, with all the relative conditionings regarding objectives, localizations and procedures, that mortify those requirements of an ordered and constant programming that the Roman College (other than room of the loot!) has not been able to start for many years. Nor are new jobs created, because beyond the propaganda slogan, the "500 young people for culture" referred to in Article 2, which can be used for a single year - as Mr Marcucci has said with great honesty - and, moreover, only in the four convergence regions, do not respond so much to the needs of the administration, because the administration would be able to use so many young graduates and specialists (even more than thirty-five years old) already trained on the ground thanks to multiannual experiences acquired in other projects of cataloguing and computerization, sorting of collections, teaching promotion and assistance to the public as to other logics. With this measure we remain in the logic of welfare and a little hypocritical, because we will produce in the selected young people expectations that will meet the disappointment, as repeatedly happened for many generations of young people trained in universities for cultural goods born with a liberal spontaneity often irresponsible. We must also speak in positive terms. We must share and support the effort for the Grand Pompeii Project to which Europe has devoted substantial funds. However, I ask myself, and I ask the rapporteur: why does the creation of a project director-general not end up being an overlap with the supervisor's functions? Currently the Superintendent has his skills only on the Vesuvius area. Or, in the event that the latter is entrusted with ordinary administration and management of the sites, what is the reason for the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities to consider that superintendence still special, i.e. with a level playing field and with the status of general manager? I wonder if the Great Pompeii Unit, enriched by the staff of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, other administrations and external experts, may be able not to exonerate and not to mortify for the umpteenth time the peripheral organs of the Ministry. As far as the management committee is concerned, the amendments announced by the rapporteur seem to me to be interesting and appropriate. In this spirit, Mr President, there will be no lack of the decree-law, the contribution, the support and I believe the support of our Group, in the hope that the reversal of the trend has actually begun. [[Applause from the LAG Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u14	Mr President, yesterday in this House we recalled Senator Andreotti, we praised his merits and also the cursus honorum absolutely extraordinary; listening to the speeches, however, I realized how far the policy that we should be doing from the one that characterized Andreotti. The wise navigation, the composition, the mediation, the compromise perhaps had a meaning in a world in which international politics was given: there was the cold war that lasted over time and national politics took place within well-defined parallels. Today we can't do politics like this anymore. Today in Europe and in Italy, without a vision of the future, without making courageous choices, we do not make politics: with that kind of compromise we risk making our State even more archaic, even more inefficient administrative machinery. I have made this premise because the decree that we are going to examine and vote today represents, in my opinion, a first positive news, a trend reversal from the point of view of government policy, meanwhile because it invests in culture, and investing in culture means, from my point of view, recovering the pride of our roots, of our being Italian in Europe. He invests in culture instead of merely administering, fueling welfare expenditure, letting part of the public money feed corruption or the improper relationship between politics and business. It's a reversal of trend. More could be done, probably, but it is worth highlighting some aspects contained in the decree under consideration. First of all the extraordinary intervention for Pompeii, also with an extraordinary structure. Why Pompeii and not, for example, the Arab-Norman in Sicily? Because we will all be judged on Pompeii. There have been great European investments on Pompeii: it is the destiny of this extraordinary heritage of Italy and the map to the litmusol of our future, our ability to heal. There is an intervention, also this extraordinary, to help the lyric-symphonic foundations (and they need them), and if it will be combined with a recovery of efficiency in management we will be able to save this heritage, and also very skilled labor. Moreover, in addition to some credit openings for other initiatives, from the Uffizi to the mausoleum of Augustus in Rome, through the tax credit criterion, some money is destined to cinema: certainly much less than our French neighbours do, but still this, given the limited resources, is an absolutely positive fact. I note, precisely because the resources are limited, that the Commission, majority and opposition, and President Marcucci have done their best to qualify the decree under consideration and make it, precisely, the premise of a reversal of trend. However, I have to say in conclusion that we would expect much more and better from this Government. If there is a problem of funding Pompeii or lyrical-symphonic foundations, it is also because we have made improper and wrong choices, which are being blamed on us by Europe. I am referring, for example, to the wrong decision to abolish the IMU for all categories of income. Commissioner Rehn pointed this out to us: this is not the consolidation that we must do, this is not the vision of the future that we must have; investing in culture is exactly the opposite of giving money to honour electoral promises or to establish that property is not touched, even when this property has the possibility to contribute. In conclusion, in my opinion the Government and President Letta, starting from this reversal of trend and investment on culture, should ask Europe that when we invest in culture or in the defense of hydrogeological order, goods that are of humanity and not only of us Italians, well, then these investments should not be considered in the fiscal exercise of balance of budget. There we could and should also invest by contracting debts, because it is not current expenditure but an expenditure that prepares the future. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Sibilia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, this measure certainly has a significant impact on the legislation of the sector, as it is one of the few organic legislative acts in the field of cultural goods. It is worth recalling the genesis of the text, approved on 8 August in the Council of Ministers and which was followed about two weeks later by the inspection carried out by the 7th Senate Commission in Pompeii. There is therefore a strong attention of the institutions towards the sector, which needs favorable rules both to promote protection and valorization as well as to stimulate the revival in tourist and economic terms. Having regard to this premise of context and taking into account the sharing of the strategic nature of the measure, it is clear that the structure of the article is affected by some fundamental choices of the current Minister, on which the People's Group of Freedom has shown wide openness, but at the same time an attitude of secular criticism. This attitude is motivated above all by the need to build a stable and actually improving regulatory framework, in the knowledge that cultural heritage is first and foremost a common good. Alongside, therefore, the need to correct the text, with a view to strengthening the measures envisaged in it, we have, however, shown some discomfort in the Commission with regard to the mechanisms of coverage, which in our opinion conflict with the more general objective of supporting the country's economy. It is undeniable, in fact, that the situation of the site of Pompei, the digitization of the heritage through the employment of young trainees, the continuation of interventions already begun on important works, the development of libraries and archives, the support to young contemporary artists, the tax reliefs for music and cinema, the simplification of procedures for the live performance, the relaunch of the opera foundations and the tax relief of private contributions represent actions no longer procrastinable, as they constitute, as a whole, the heart of the activity of the Dicastery itself. However, they counter the appetising of other vital sectors of the economy, such as the local government's fund "pays for businesses" and excise duties on oils, smoke and fuels. This justified the repeated requests for further information in the Commission, without prejudice to the favourable opinion of the text as a whole. Critical profiles remain, for example, on Article 1, which redesigns the management of the Pompeii site on which the 7th Commission has also worked hard in the last legislature, approving a detailed resolution concluding an assigned affair. The centralised solution proposed in the decree and centered on the figure of the Director-General of de facto project commissioner again the administrative structure, which instead has often invoked continuity: it will therefore be up to the Government to ensure a passage of deliveries that does not interrupt the path undertaken with the Grande Progetto Pompei, but that makes concrete the commitments undertaken by Italy on a European and international scale. On this article, the Commission has worked precisely to dictate more precise indications to the new players involved in the management of the archaeological area. A particular mention is undoubtedly also made in Article 8 on film tax credit. The Commission has always supported cross-cuttingly the introduction, albeit transitional, of tax concessions for cinema, and has advocated renewal at the end of each three-year period. It was also unanimous when it came to calling for more incisive action in the so-called decree-law of doing, in which the extension of the tax relief provisions was only planned for one year and with a reduced amount. Our Group - the People of Freedom - then presented specific proposals to increase resources and make them at least three years old. We cannot, therefore, fail to express our satisfaction at the permanent nature attributed to these rules, which have so far received a good response and have supported an important Italian enterprise, given that cinema is a cultural segment but also an entrepreneurial one. Another issue that the Commission is constantly paying attention to is the restoration of lyrical symphonic foundations, on which the former Berlusconi Government, with Minister Bondi, already attempted structural action. In this case too, the Group has put forward amending proposals aimed, inter alia, at better characterising the superintendent, who is the cornerstone of the activities of these bodies. There is no doubt that the lyric institutions, with some exceptions, fail to meet all the expenses both for the staff's burdens and for a supplementary contract for years remained uncontrolled; the response offered in the decree aims to support economically the rehabilitation of the foundations, provided that healthy management is also encouraged in order not to penalise precisely those bodies that have triggered a virtuous circuit. Finally, Article 12 on donations of modest value (up to EUR 5,000) for cultural goods and activities also deserves a positive mention. The bureaucratic simplification to the benefit of citizens who want to invest in cultural heritage is certainly an important aspect, even if a further act of courage could have been carried out allowing the full deductibility of such disbursements, precisely with a view to making the private person fully involved in the management of public affairs. In conclusion, one cannot fail to appreciate the effort to finally treat cultural goods as a carrier sector, deserving of specific attention, even if the openings contained in the measure lack the more substantial resources that would have made it sure and undoubtedly more full-bodied, without penalising other sectors of the economy. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Marcucci]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u17	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 10,500 words, in 1,200 lines, with over 75,000 lines, have been used to draw up the text of this decree-law, but without prejudice to the title, the decree does not give any attention to tourism. Minister Bray, moreover, is also Minister of Tourism; let's say that it is in a certain sense like having two children and sending only one to school, leaving the other in complete ignorance; not to mention the affection and love given to the favorite (culture), neglecting consequently the other son, (tourism) probably not desired and born almost by chance, in an ensemble not even so much desired. I am well aware that the framework of competences for tourism has changed profoundly since 2011, recognizing the regions the so-called exclusive or residual competence, but it is worth remembering some responsibilities. Monti had announced the reform of the famous Title V in order to bring some competences of the Regions to central level, such as energy, infrastructure and tourism: the hypothesis has been stranded. There was a strategic plan for the development of tourism by Minister Gnudi: dispersed. Anyone who wished for it will be disappointed for a long time. Does anyone remember that this nation had a Minister for Tourism? Undersecretary Borletti Buitoni wrote on her blog: Also useful measures have been taken for tourism, in particular to relaunch sustainable and cultural tourism. They are so useful that sustainable have become ethereal. The Director-General of ENIT tells us that, out of 18 million euros per year of state resources, he uses 17 million euros for the management of 200 employees; therefore he remains available only one million euros to promote tourism and Italy around the world. It is thought that the APT of Emilia-Romagna uses 12 million euros, the Trentino 25 million, Sicily 28 and Switzerland 44; we only one. Italy loses positions in the ranking of world tourism. For example, on a potential of about 100 million Chinese tourists, we cannot even make available a specific service for visa applications, online, on the web. The decree "culture value" contains many measures ranging from Pompeii to individual donations, from tax credit to the industrial plan of the lyric foundations, from young artists, which can finally be expressed in some state property spaces, to some forms - let's say so too - of circumvention of the spending review. It is the explicit attempt to respond to urgent needs that are crowded, but in it we notice the absence of any reference link to tourism. The homogeneity of the premises responds to the unevenness of the contents. The question to be asked is: is there a strategy behind these urgent interventions on emerging issues? The answer is completely negative. Take for example article 5, which provides for a distribution of resources: 8 million euros for the New Uffizi; 4 million euros for the National Museum of Italian Judaism and the Shoah of Ferrara; 2 million euros for indifferent and urgent interventions to protect cultural assets that present serious risks of deterioration. How can we not emphasize a decided disproportion between the Grande Progetto Pompei and the Nuovi Uffizi, two poles, that is, of undoubted excellence at world level, and the National Museum for Italian Judaism and the Shoah. No one obviously wants to diminish - it goes without saying - the historical importance of what is contained in the Shoah, however, it would seem, indeed it is an oboleum paid to Minister Franceschini, and to the city of Ferrara through it, that not the answer necessary to an urgency and an indifferentiability, considering that the founding law is of April 2013. Perhaps it is true that all political innovators end up in the glory of beating at the public coffers. There is no doubt that public spending on culture is necessary both as done in itself and for the country's tourist appeal, but it must have a meaning, a strategic intelligence, a long vision. Finally, there is the issue of resources: for public spending standards it is not a question of huge amounts of money, yet the problem is not in their amount, but in the financial coverage identified, with yet another tax tightening and, in particular, with the increase in excise duties. We needed money and banally thought to increase excise duties on smoke, alcohol and lubricating oils: it basically cashes out. Moreover, the increase in excise duty on lubricating oils will affect a wider audience than motorists alone, since these oils also serve civil and industrial purposes. These are far from insignificant increases: an increase of 5% on lubricating oils, EUR 50 million on smoking products, an increase of 1.7% on beer next year and of 5.5% from 2015 and other products will increase. As is well known, excise duties contribute to the value of the products and therefore the calculation of VAT includes the value of the product including excise duty. Finally, I would like to make an annotation on Article 2 of the Decree, relating to the project "500 young people for culture": the intention is very noble and the activity is concrete, but the tasks underlying the activities are complex and specialized and therefore the work of young people must be framed on the basis of a high quality design and coordination carried out by people trained and highly specialised, so the decree does not provide for funding. On the contrary, the decree seems to exclude the offices of the Ministry recalling the support of the Agency for digital Italy, which does not have skills in the field. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Castaldi. CASTALDI (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. It would therefore be a pity not to complete and not to put into place the huge information database on cultural heritage for the purposes of planned knowledge and restoration. The risk of demagogy is therefore high if the Ministry does not intelligently plan all ex ante activities. In short - and I have really concluded, Mr President - the decree in question shows that beyond intuitions and fine intentions there is no organic and forward-looking strategy and the risk of shipwreck in the usual swamp of the emergency is concrete. Finally, I make one last small council, as a citizen: next time, to avoid confusion, completely remove the word "tourism" from the title of the decree. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bocca. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u19	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u20	Mr President, seeing a decree-law that invests in culture, in a country like ours, is certainly welcome. I respond in part to the intervention of those who preceded me saying that tourism is an entrepreneurial activity, and probably the Government did not very well the idea of uniting culture and tourism in a single Ministry. Perhaps the theme of tourism should be included in the Department of Economic Development, because it is an economic activity, with all its characteristics. However, I do not want to leave the subject on the agenda, and I would therefore like to focus my attention on the Pompeii issue. In Italy we have more than 50% of the artistic heritage around the world: having such a great good entails great responsibilities, and unfortunately the means within the framework of the state budget are absolutely unsuitable. This morning I read the article by Sergio Rizzo, published on the front page of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) which talks about the 678 employees of the weather service in Campania and then explains a series of things that colleagues can read. Madam Undersecretary, as far as Pompeii is concerned, I would have liked the Government to have planned the allocation of money, because it is essential, but it also thought of a somewhat innovative management model. I would like to address you, Madam Undersecretary, who is better acquainted with the experience of the Italian Environment Fund, having presided over it for a period of time. In other words, it is necessary to allow the entry of voluntary private capital, not for speculative purposes or for the entrepreneurial management of the assets, but absolutely with the idea of obtaining a benefit and rationalization in the management of the funds, perhaps involving also international capital, in order to compensate for the present shortcomings of the public money, which will continue also in the future, combining private volunteering with the iron control of the State. I must say, Madam Undersecretary, that, knowing the prestige, the authority and also the institutional position of Salvatore Settis, I was wrong to read his article today at the Corriere della Sera, which responds to an interview of Fiona Reynolds and to the letter of the current president of the FAI, Carandini. The State and the great officials of the State must play a fundamental role: to ensure that the artistic heritage is protected, that it is not polluted, that it is well managed. But it is necessary, then, to be slim in the management and sure that the people who are in charge have the necessary prestige (and unfortunately, when you manage only public money, there are very few examples of this type). I think that in the perspective we must involve Italian and international capitals in order to enhance our heritage. It takes work. I conclude by pointing out that if we could involve large international capitals - which are there - we would also gain the advantage of drawing the world's attention to our great heritage. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u22	Mr President, I too would like to comment, as my colleague Mr Carraro has done, on the fact that no provision on tourism has been included. It is true that those who work in tourism carry out a private commercial activity, but it is equally true that we are in Italy, and tourists who visit our country come especially for our archaeological and monumental beauties. Consequently, the inclusion of the tourism sector within the remit of the Ministry of Economic Development was to represent the relaunch of the country's most important economic machine. We missed a chance this time too. The decree-law at our examination is undoubtedly the result of an effort by the Government to ensure, even in difficult times for the country's finances, a breath of oxygen in favour of a sector, that of culture, far too penalized in recent years by a policy that the current economic situation has led to being increasingly prosaic and heavily influenced by the diktats imposed by Europe. In analyzing the text, however, in our opinion, comforted also by authoritative commentators in the sector (it is not only us who say so), we cannot fail to fear the repositioning of old situations of the past, when, in the face of large organisational and managerial investments, it has always reflected a deafening lack of results, which is before everyone's eyes. I would like to analyse some articles with you, colleagues. First of all, Pompeii: some colleagues have already spoken about this. Article 1 is, in our view, the great deception of this law, which I will talk a lot about when we vote and when we consider the amendments. When we had recently visited the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage in Pompeii, we had been reassured (evidence this aspect) about the timing of the implementation of the Grand Pompeii Project, given the risk of withdrawing European funds by 2015 and the reliefs from UNESCO. In Pompeii was present the UNESCO representative, who had made important statements. Instead, what happens? Within a few months, with this decree, everything is called into question and we move on to a new governance of the project, with a new commissioner, and then starting again from scratch and above all with new costs for public finance. In these days, for example, we have seen that the protocol of legality signed by the Superintendence with the prefecture of Naples is bearing fruit. This is important, given that the men of the DIA of Naples, together with Carabinieri, Guardia di Finanza and Police, have passed through the sieve the construction sites in progress related to the "Grande Progetto Pompei" funded by the European Union. The interforce group is paying particular attention to the execution of the work, in order to highlight the possible constraints on organised crime. It's a very important job in that area. So, ladies and gentlemen, it was not enough for the players already on the field to manage this project, as we were told when we went to Pompeii? The hope is that the new organizational arrangements, wanted by this decree, will not, among other things, lead to a loosening of the investigative tension and control and there are amendments, tabled by some colleagues, that demand a high level of intervention and, above all, control. We know very well, in fact, that the main problem we will face during the restoration of Pompeii, as the chronicles of these days show, is related to the incidence of organised crime in procurement; although when we went to Pompeii some told us that it was not true. We also believe that it would have been useful in the decree to mention the management of projects already under construction in Pompeii. Moreover, even in the debate in the Commission we were not given any information on the plan for the restoration of Pompeii, entrusted to a team of German archaeologists who should collaborate with the Superintendence. Turning to the other topics dealt with by the decree at our examination, Article 2 aims to create the networking of digital collections, for a better and more widespread diffusion of our cultural heritage. Apart from the fact that there are already long-standing projects to this end, funding is short-term (and this has also been said by colleagues before me), resources are being invested for the training of 500 young people, only for 2014, without providing them with a job opportunity after that date. However, I would like to stress, having tabled an amendment on this subject, that experimentation is limited only to young people in the Southern regions. As usual, the young people of the North Regions never remember them: no-su-no! At the end of these projects what will happen to the work carried out, who will follow its developments and ensure its use over time? We believe that other resources are being thrown into the wind. Article 3 gives MIBAC cashiers the revenue from the ticketing. In this respect, we have tabled an amendment because, in our opinion, we should have dared more, namely to establish the obligation for MIBAC to reassign resources to the individual cultural sites that produce them. In this way these revenues could no longer finance museums that were totally at a loss, frequented by a number of visitors who can count on the fingers of one hand and who continue to keep open only to distribute some salary. These too, in the present situation, are wasteful! The accounts of our cultural heritage are tragic: all the Italian state ticket offices put together made revenue, in 2012, for a hundred million euros. The Louvre Museum, alone, collects much more than we do. It is therefore necessary to clarify the uncontrollable chaos of free entrances. An amendment has also been tabled on this. The national average, moreover, is illuminating: to see our treasures, the paying visitors are only 16 million out of 36 and a half million; more than 20 million people enter our museums for free. True, culture is for everyone, but perhaps we need to take a step back. In our view, this is unsustainable! Let's think, for example, of the Pantheon, a few meters from us: free entry. If you expected to pay an entry ticket of one euro, think about how much money would go into the Ministry's coffers and how many things could be done with only one euro for entry to the Pantheon instead of free entry. Even for archaeological sites and museums you have to think like entrepreneurs (unfortunately you have to do this right now), trying to figure out where to invest and how to exploit the few resources we have available. I take the example of some Italian paradoxes (when I read them I shuddered): in 2011, 400 tourists paying for the archaeological area of Megara Hyblaea or, at the Archaeological Museum Ibleo in Ragusa, 1.4 visitors per day; not to mention the Archaeological Museum of Marianopoli, with two visitors per week, for a total collection of 4 euros, that is 16 per month, 192 euros per year. Excuse me, but these numbers make you shudder! Perhaps you should have the intellectual honesty to figure out where to direct resources. With regard to Article 5, it is important to remember that Law No 91 of 17 April 2003, establishing the National Museum of Italian Judaism and the Shoah, allocated a funding of 15 million euros (confirmed in the 2007 financial year), but the same amount is currently increased to 40 million euros, of which about 30 will still have to be found. Even in this case, without wishing to deny the importance of historical memory, we really do not understand the reason for such a rise in costs and, given the economic difficulties in which the country is located, we would have wanted, if not a different, at least a more careful use of resources, perhaps increase the poor 2 million euros provided for in unmissable and urgent interventions of protection of cultural heritage. In this respect (I do not want to anticipate anything), with an amendment today the 7th Commission approved an increase in this figure, from EUR 2 million to EUR 8 million. Here again I would like to make a comparison, not political but cultural: EUR 8 million for the Uffizi, therefore one site, EUR 8 million for all Italian sites and museums; EUR 8 million for the rest of Italy, Mr President. Mah! In addition to the rules that allow the young artists and the cinema to enjoy the same benefits, we cannot fail to criticise the rule that applies to Article 14, even in this case, a rule that provides for another Commissioner (let us continue to say 'commissari', 'commissari', 'commissari', 'commissari'!). I should like to conclude by expressing my doubts as to the fact that, although advertised in the title of the decree, there is no trace of any provision or financing relating to tourism, while both the Minister and the Secretary concerned had announced a text aimed at encouraging the development of sustainable tourism, respectful of the environment and local cultures. Once again nothing or little is done for culture and tourism. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u23	Senator Giro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I share almost everything that has been said here in this House. The fact that culture is a factor of economic growth is an objective fact: it is the numbers that certify it. For us Italians it should also be a factor of competitive advantage over other European economies that have a historical and artistic heritage far inferior to ours. I do not want to fall into the game of percentages, but certainly our heritage is not only vast, but it is also different, composite, articulated, made of many different things then set in an extraordinarily suggestive landscape. It is no coincidence that Article 9 of the Constitution prescribes the protection of the landscape as one of the Republic's priority tasks. So they're constitutionally established facts. The numbers are in front of everyone: culture in Italy contributes almost 5% to GDP, an amount of 64 billion (these are data recently communicated by Federculture). If we integrate (senator Carraro has done well to ask to intervene in this session) the cultural sector with the creative one and the tourist one, in Italy we contribute to GDP in this area for 13%, equal to 203 billion. But they are far lower than those of our European partners: 21% in Spain, 14% in France and Great Britain; only Germany has one less point than we do. True, we have less money, less resources, but perhaps it would be better to spend it better. In fact, much and very bad has been spent on culture. I remember that with the guarantee fund for the cinema of the years Ninety thousand billion old lire were thrown out of the window for films not only seen because of the director's misfortune, but for films never made, without any compensation for the state. The law has then been changed, it has been told fortunately thanks to our minister Urbani, minister of cultural goods of the second Berlusconi Government, and therefore the State has had a margin of manoeuvre to be compensated, to control, to verify all the passages in the distribution of funds to the cinema. So we have less, we spend better. It's true, we have less. We only spent 0.39% of public spending on culture a few years ago. Public spending then increased, because in 2005 it was 535 billion, while now it is more than 800 billion euro, but the rate for culture has even decreased, reaching 0.19 percent. These numbers have already been referred back to the House and to the Commission during our work. Not only that. Unfortunately, for the priority mission constitutionally provided for in Article 9, i.e. the protection mission, the Ministry is allocated only EUR 90 million, in fact, because cuts have been made, the famous linear cuts, for which we all assume responsibility, because cuts can also be made in the cultural sector: if we have made cuts in health care, closed hospitals, cut pensions, if we have put many elderly people in the condition of receiving in July a figure and in the following month a very different figure with the negative sign, we can also cut in the culture sector! It's not a bad word, it's a cut. But you have to see how you cut it. Linear cuts are stupid cuts by definition, they're not smart cuts. But - I repeat - in culture it has also been very watered down for the usual, usual, usual known. We must, therefore, also check what has been done and an analysis of conscience. If we have less - as I have already said - we have to spend better, especially we have to open our doors to the private. Since there are fewer resources, if the private is interested in investing in culture I do not think it is a good behavior to reject it. But the private sector (my experience has taught me this, but I believe that everyone in this House has gained administrative experience, on the territory, in small municipalities but also in large cities) deals with the public if the latter is convinced of what it does, if not a millimetre behind that famous article 9. The private, that is, does not enter into synergy and does not establish an understanding, and a possible collaboration, if the public, that is the State, the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, with its Superintendences, is uncertain, hesitant, is confused and does not believe in its own institutional mission. These things can therefore be done if the interlocutors are stable, serious, have projects that are based on selection and meritocracy and have clear ideas. Few ideas, but clear. Turning quickly to the article, I would just like to focus on a few articles. In Article 1 the figure of the super - super - super project director-general for Pompeii appears. Vivadio, this seems a commissioner ad acta; the commissioner that the Berlusconi Government had appointed to manage the situation in Pompeii and that was massacred by justice, because the political use of justice, unfortunately, does not only concern Silvio Berlusconi: it also concerns valiant administrators of the State who have been massacred by the usual media-judiziary pillage for having established a theatre in Pompeii. But Pompei fell apart, and that commissioner, appointed by the Berlusconi Government, did his duty, until proven otherwise, and instead he was already massacred on the front pages of the newspapers. The general manager of the project does everything: the archaeologist, the surveyor, the architect, because, as we read in the letter a) of paragraph 1 of Article 1, "defines and approves the elaborate projects of the interventions of safety, restoration, and valorization." He does everything! He's a superman. Moreover, it is flanked by everything and more: by a Grande Pompei unit (in fact, it deals only with Pompi, but also with Stabia, Herculaneum and the entire archaeological area of Campania), a support structure appointed by the President of the Council, a Management Committee appointed by the President of the Council. Only the words "civil protection order" are missing, which, as is well known, is provided for by civil protection and signed by the President of the Council. In addition, draw up the strategic plan. I would avoid terminologies such as "strategic plan", "global plan", "plan of interventions". Let's trust some more of the officials, of the supervisors, of all the professionalism, valid, very valid, that already work in the superintendence. I voted for this article, and I am convinced, but I repeat that the figure is very similar to that Commissioner ad acta whom we had appointed. As far as Article 2 is concerned, let us not deceive young people. Five hundred young people for culture: there is too much emphasis here too. And I remember the 1,000 young people for culture already foreseen in the VAT-Labour Decree. We therefore have 1,500 young people, but they will take between 300 and 400 euros for twelve months. Let's not create new pockets of precariousness! I therefore ask the Government to be very vigilant. Article 5 on the Uffizi provides for an endless construction site. A construction site that, from my point of view (and I would like to have the figures), has already spent about EUR 30 or 40 million. Now, if you ask for eight. We gave it to him, 7 plus 1, and that's okay, because the Uffizi are the largest national museum, although they occupy a very low position in the world rankings. Therefore, EUR 8 million have been allocated for the continuation of the work, negotiated privately, and with the usual cooperative valorously engaged in these endless works. We should therefore have gold-coated Uffizi. I know the minister visited them, lining up and buying the ticket. Actually, we used to do these things too, but without the cameras. We went and paid the ticket: for us, for family and for friends. But that these works are closed and that the Uffizi are made fully accessible to the public. Article 11 deals with foundations. Now, we have passed Law No. 10 of 2010 (the so-called Bondi Act). It has been said that the law has failed and that it has not worked. But the law was clear. What did the law say? The holiday is over; you are burdened with 300 million debts (which in recent years have increased, and now amount to 330 million euros), you have to bring the books to the court, because these are public bodies under private law. They are hybrids, in fact, because they are private bodies and are also public; they take money from the State but they claim their autonomy, which they exercise with great value. But then, this is the replica of Bondi law. In fact, it is worse than the Bondi law (if we want to share the criticisms of the time), because it provides for draconian cuts. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by thanking you. I want to thank Senator Bondi, former Minister of Culture, for having made that law that has not been applied because the unions, who are now all silent, reacted at the time, while today, precisely, they do not react. I want to thank Senator Bondi and President Berlusconi for making possible the complete restoration of the Colosseum. And I was accused, personally, of having sold the image of the Colosseum to the "Scarf of the Marches": but I had not found the "Palazzinaro" of Rome, and therefore I had to look for the resources where they were available. I conclude, really, thank you also for having concluded the yard of MAXXI, with the 40 million allocated in the interministerial decree Bondi-Matteoli (which is not present but that I thank), that it has been made possible by the government Berlusconi. Thank you for the tax credit, because all the implementing decrees have been prepared by our Government, the Berlusconi Government, after a defiant negotiation with the European Union, since there was a prospect of state aid. That is what has been done. Dear President Marcucci, I say this to you, that you have collaborated with me on the tax credit of the cinema and the one for music, which are due to the work of that government's inquiry. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u25	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u26	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you listen to us, fortunately, from outside, because we are less and less here, this is one of the very few times that ten speeches are being made in this House, and we all, broadly speaking, repeat the same thing. Even the conversion into law of this decree of urgency is a work not done well. My speech will be an intervention not made in political language, but carried out by a free citizen. Rightly, the Ministry today is of cultural heritage, but also of tourism. It is impossible that, for the first time, we use the term "tourism" but then, within the decree, there is absolutely no effort whatsoever to talk about tourism. However, a few speeches have been made to ask this House whether it is possible to live on tourism in Italy. If the concept is that expressed by Senator Carraro, that tourism is a simple entrepreneurial activity, then let's say it doesn't spring the spring that can really make tourism the first Italian industry. That's where you have to hack. Making an architectural or environmental asset usable also means making it productive; it means conveying the cultural identity of a place to tourists who visit it and who, with a minimum contribution, allow to carry out activities. These are simple interventions: I wonder, for example, if it might be interesting to organize in Rome a tour of the architectural assets for tourists who come from abroad, perhaps providing a simple ticket that allows you to visit all the architectural assets. You could do something similar perhaps also with other cultural assets and this same intervention could be replicated in a simple way throughout the national territory, not only for real cultural assets, but also for mobile ones: the cultural activities that are carried out in certain territories are already deserving of attention and could be an attraction for everyone. Madam Undersecretary, if you do not do a more organic job so that you really put in close connection the cultural and architectural good with tourism we no longer get out of it. To find the financial coverage in the decree you go to tax lubricating oils and other goods. What should be done instead is to make a certain good productive, really inserting within this context - why not? - an entrepreneurial idea. There is talk of cataloguing architectural, environmental and cultural assets. Well, in 1998 I graduated from the Faculty of Architecture of the University of Palermo where, Madam Undersecretary, we did thousands of works on the census of cultural and architectural assets. The first thing to do would, therefore, be to network the results of the work carried out in this respect by the various universities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As for the 500 jobs provided for young people under the age of 35, I would not like them to be yet another social blackmail. I would have to say, then, also about the concept of young people in Italy and the fact of calling people up to 35 years of age to be trained to do a job for twelve months! Let us proceed constructively. I do not want to be angry, since this is a subject that I feel in a particular way, but let us try, Madam Undersecretary (and I invite you to make it spokesperson), to make a more organic intervention, without eliminating the word "tourism" from decrees such as today to our examination: let us instead insert the theme of tourism into certain measures, let us talk about it, let us establish technical tables in this regard, let us begin to discuss them. I would also like to make one final point on the issue of conflict of interest. The Minister has responsibility for cultural, environmental and tourism goods, while in the 10th The Senate Commission, which deals with industry, commerce and tourism, of which I too am a member, can only give an opinion, without being able to enter into the substance of the decree, by tabling amendments. Here then there is already a mistake of principle. I do not go into the substance of the measure, because already colleagues from the various political parties have clarified the criticalities related to old and obsolete concepts of politics, beginning with the figure of the megadirector. I should like to end by asking you, Madam Undersecretary, to pay particular attention to the G101, G102 and G2,101 agendas which I have presented, in which the Government is committed to taking action on this matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u27	Colleagues, given the time, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u28	I would like to inform you that, as already announced to the parliamentary groups on the short lines, at tomorrow's Question Time sitting at 4 p.m., the Minister of Defence will answer questions on the following subjects: profiles for the implementation of the revision of the national military instrument; European defence policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u31	Borioli (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out to the House and colleagues in this brief speech the situation of serious disservice and disruption in which the entire system of public transport in Piedmont is gradually slipping, both local public transport by road and regional rail transport. In fact, if it is true that the question of local public transport and that of regional rail transport take on in our country, for the truth by now, but in an increasingly acute way, the traits of a great national issue, that the same minister Lupi has placed in the first position in the own agenda of work, I cannot, as representative of Piedmont, fail to emphasize that this condition seems particularly intolerable and paradoxical in the Region from which I come. Already the cuts made by the Piedmont Region, now for about two years, have caused, and not only to commuters, but also to students and workers who turn to these services, increasing inconveniences and become in recent times completely unbearable, but in particular, with the reopening of activities, after the summer break, the program of scaling and cutting services approved by the Region is likely to question the very cornerstones of one of the fundamental rights, of which citizens must be able to dispose (in particular coinciding with the reopening of schools), which is the right to mobility. We, the Senators elected in Piedmont by the Democratic Party, have tabled a question in this respect, and we hope that we will soon be able to answer that question. Finally, I would like to stress one aspect which makes this situation extremely paradoxical. Within the framework of the decree that a few months ago activated the payment of the debts of the public administration, the Piedmont Region - and only the Piedmont Region - was benefited by a measure that allowed it to use to pay the previous debts, accrued in the local public transport sector to the companies that carry out that service, of the resources of the Fund for the development and social cohesion that would originally (and sensiblely) to be allocated to investments. The Piedmont Region had the opportunity to use those resources, 150 million euros, just to pay these debts. Nevertheless, we are witnessing the breakdown I was talking about. I hope - and I also stress this to the House - that as soon as possible the Minister will be able not only to report, but also to take the necessary measures, because the Piedmontese commuters have the right to see this service guaranteed to them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u34	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am telling you that there is no peace for the territory of the Roman Castles, unfortunately. There is no peace even for the areas Ardeatina and Divine Love. As if not enough a million cubic meters of concrete (already destined), now comes also the change of destination of use of a landfill that from storage of waste of the chain of the destruction of cars, so-called fluff, would become mixed, with the prediction of the spilling of TMB. In short, a nice mixture, of which you do not seem to have clear ideas. This is demonstrated by the thousand shadows on the managers, on the Ecofer, on a documentation that to date seems not to exist. As a 5 Star Movement we communicate that we have filed several questions for clarification on the matter and above all on the work of the commissioner, Goffredo Subtle. We are also promoting a request to the Ministry of the Environment of the acts relating to the landfill of Falcognana to understand at least if they exist and, once verified that they exist, if they comply with the provisions of the law, because to date it is not given to know. We essentially require the acts provided for in the Ministerial Decree of 27 June 2013, which in fact extended Malagrotta and the mandate of Goffredo Sottile, as well as those documents which are foreseen by the same decree, but which have not yet been seen and are being delayed. The absence, the delay would require at least the assumption of responsibility by those who are involved in the management of the emergency waste, let's call it that, in Lazio: Goffredo Sottile. These documents, which ask for clarification on the type of waste spilled (it would seem FOS, that is special waste, the same ones coming from biogas plants that are proliferating in Lazio), together with the related answers, will be made available to the community and will be the subject of in-depth studies and actions. We are not at all happy with the work of these gentlemen who manage the emergency; we are not at all happy with the guilty delay in carrying out the separate door-to-door collection: the effects are then on the citizens who have to take sides, poor people, against incinerators and landfills. We are also grounded in scenes such as those seen in the hearing in the Senate Environment Commission, where it has emerged that Goffredo Sottile does not even know the difference between separate collection and recycled percentage in Lazio, as would result from the demand of our citizen Paola Nugnes. How can someone who doesn't even know what we're talking about dealing with emergency waste? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u37	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, my speech is on the subject of today's agenda. Of course in Italy we are good, very good I would say, but in what? Using our resources, our archaeological and cultural sites as mats where we constantly clean our feet. What am I talking about? To the last absurdity concerning a good, which in reality is a treasure from the human, historical and cultural point of view. In 2001, during the excavations for the construction of a mall was found in Nola, in the province of Naples, a prehistoric village dating back to the Bronze Age. Countless objects, huts almost perfectly preserved and much more, come to light after they were totally buried, submerged by the eruption of Vesuvius. A treasure of inestimable value that lay there for forty centuries and which in a completely random and fortuitous way has come to light. Any State, other than Italy, of course, would not only try to save the site by allocating funds to continue the excavation work in search of every possible finds, but would have valued and maintained it for the purpose of conservation. Instead, upset (but not so much), what do I read in an article a few days ago? That even the works and scaffolding have been arranged to reearth the archaeological site in the hope, perhaps, that future generations may have more at the heart of us sites of this prestige, to the extent that they want to invest funds for the maintenance of the same. Colleagues, we're either crazy or we're scumbags who are about to commit yet another crime against Italian history and heritage. I find it unacceptable that this news is going through silence without anyone highlighting it. I find it unacceptable that there is no position on the part of the competent Ministry. On the contrary, I announce that as a 5 Star Movement we will demand that the prehistoric village of Nola become the subject of a deal assigned to the competent Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage, hoping for the support of the other parliamentary groups as well. But I would also like a speech from Minister Bray. I would like you to answer me, to answer all the Italians, saying that the article I read is false. I would like him to tell me that he himself has been interested in the situation and that he will never allow a site of this value to ever and never be reearthed with the excuse to safeguard it. I ask you, Mr President, to take charge of this matter and to bring my requests to the Minister, hoping to have a response and an interest on his part and on the part of the competent Ministry. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u40	ROMANI Maurizio (M5S). Mr President, I would like to read a letter that the association Italia Nostra di Firenze and the committee the TAV tunnel of the same city wrote to the architect Fabio Zita, the manager of the Tuscany Region, after the publication of the contents of some telephone interceptions carried out during the investigation conducted by the judiciary on the passerby TAV. Gentile architect Fabio Zita, we are a group of citizens of the association Italia Nostra and the committee "No tunnel TAV" that in Florence have opposed since 2006 the realization of the passerby TAV that we consider useless, dangerous and very expensive. From the developments of the investigations and related telephone interceptions that the news agencies have issued we have seen that, in addition to the six excellent arrests, his name also comes out. It would appear that you have been a major obstacle to the power group that was fixing, "with teamwork," all the very serious gaps that afflict this project. In particular, his decision to consider the excavation land produced by the mill during the construction of the tunnel as special waste not to be reused for environmental restoration prevented the start of the excavation. From the intercepts themselves it would appear that you were considered as a person who could not do the "teamwork" in which instead excelled people like Bellomo or Lorenzetti, able to create a web of friendships and favors and make possible the construction of the passerby TAV. It would also prove that you were considered a "asshole," a "terrorist," a "bastard" for your work in which you simply did your duty, that is to apply laws and regulations in the procedures concerning the passing TAV. Afterwards you would also be removed from your position as responsible for the procedures of EIA in the Region and the delegations would be invoked to you by the president of the Region of Tuscany Enrico Rossi. For these reasons, we want to express all our personal and collective solidarity to you, and we of the 5 Star Movement do so too.We want to thank you for your work and the honesty with which you have done so. The offensive epithets that have been addressed to her can consider them as blasons to be proudly flaunted in her life as recognition to her competence and above all to her intellectual and professional honesty. You probably simply did your work according to your conscience and the regulations in force, but it is shocking to see the loneliness in which you found yourself (...). His loneliness is a serious symptom of the distressing situation our institutions face. This sticky regime of politicians, fake managers, leaders always bowed down before the powerful of turn draw an Italy in which democracy is just an empty envelope of sense. (...) Know that, even if we do not know her personally, her work is also of comfort to us, a firm hope for the future of the next generations. With esteem, even from us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-104.ana.u41	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.04 a.m.
