ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 10 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,12 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] The Senate of the Republic today commemorates Professor Umberto Carpi, who died prematurely on August 6th. Umberto Carpi was born in Bolzano in 1941 and had moved very young to Pisa for study reasons. A student of the Scuola Normale Superiore, he became one of the leading figures of the student movement. In February 1967, Umberto Carpi was one of the main editors of the so-called Thesis of Wisdom, where he proposed the establishment of Departments based on the principle of interdisciplinaryity and a management of academic life able to involve students in decision-making processes. Professor of Italian literature from 1975, first at the University of Rome and later at Pisa, he was director of the Italian Institute of Literature from 1979 to 1982, and later principal of the Faculty of Letters and Philosophy of the University of Pisa. Author of fundamental studies on the relationships between literature and politics in Italy, dedicated in particular to the figures of Belli, Leopardi, Carducci and Montale and to the literary avant-gardes of the twentieth century, in recent years he had concentrated on Dante's studies and on the literature of the Jacobine and Napoleonic ages, to the origins of the Italian national identity. Umberto Carpi understood the study, the letters, poetry as a vital reality. There was no division, no separation between life lived and life told. For him the poet and man were physical reality and, together, ideal reality. For Carpi undoubtedly the words of Salvatore Quasimodo are valid: It will never be the philologists who renew the written language: it is a right that belongs to the poets. As for Quasimodo, for Carpi the poet is also in charge of the internal order of man, while the politician is in charge of the order of man. Yet - unlike Quasimodo - for Carpi the dualism between politician and poet is not real, but fictitious. Carpi's political commitment is therefore not the mere completion, a missing piece of his experience as a man of letters; it is more simply and, at the same time, more radically, the coherent unraveling of the red thread of his whole life. Senator in the XII and XIII legislatures, he was State Secretary for Industry, Trade and Crafts in the first Prodi Government and in the next I Government of Alema. After his parliamentary experience, he was elected mayor in the city of Créspina, in the province of Pisa. The interweaving of poetry and politics is the key and lever of his life. Even in the Senate, his parliamentary commitment - I remember the importance of his contribution to consumer rights - did not ease his literary passion. In the Senate he knew everyone, parliamentarians and employees, and with spontaneity included in his literary circle people even with non-humanistic training. For him our Library and our Historical Archives were an integral and qualifying part of the Institution. And one of his most articulate works - Dante's nobility - was written right in the Senate, as Carpi had the opportunity to specify in the introductory note. His lesson was first of all a witness. A testimony of persevering relevance. With Carpi, we can also say that ideas precede political action and success. Values do not follow, nor do they follow, practice. Ideas and values are therefore not a late legitimization, of convenience, of facade, but affirm the strength of thought on opinions and on the same relationships of strength. In this way, in a materialistic vision the "History" entered fully, as a decisive factor. In the lectio magistralis held in 2010 at the National Feast of the ANPI (National Association of Italian Partisans), Umberto Carpi urged to go to the vital roots of the ideal currents and great reformatory movements that began to transform in a democratic sense the Classist State that emerged from the Risorgimento, ideality and movements that Fascism could not cut off and that were renewed and they confronted each other and then collaborated in the Resistance and the Constituent. And that, still, in a conflict exasperated by the international situation and the very growth of our society, they provided the development of the country in a framework of substantial democratic and secular holding. It is to them and to their stories of national vocation that we must commit ourselves to restoring a meaning today, a new historical sense, new political forms, new cultural variations. For Umberto Carpi, "remembering" was never synonymous with "celebrating"; for him, "making memory" meant giving new meaning, rediscovering and revitalizing. There was a real method of concreteness in Carpi's work and life. A method based on the strict anchoring to the facts and the opening of the literary text to the context of lived experience. The text was not fixed, it was a report. As such, the literary work was never ancient, but was always new, it was discovered. The text relives in the understanding of the original context, but also in the interpretation of subsequent historical contexts. It could not then be foreign to the method of Carpi the multilevel reading, diaconic and the widespread references to Cross, De Sanctis, Russo marked the perimeter of meaning of literary work as primarily human work. They were not mere quotations, but rings for the understanding and stitching of the single text with its history. The text continued to live in time and space, physical and intellectual, real or imaginary or utopian. Rationality, a sense of concrete thinking: pillars of a life and a free, committed, open to others and as such intrinsically supportive. Umberto Carpi was not only an inspiration, but a constructor of coherent, integral, transparent thinking and political action. This explains Carpi's "passion" for the Constitution, interpreted and lived in its interweaving with the social and cultural context of the history of Italy. In this very Chamber, almost as a warning to hasty and unthought-out reforms, Carpi stated that he did not have "passion" for ontological conceptions of the Constitutions and to feel close instead to the historical conceptions of the Constitutions as a process of formation, which must and can find in time its ways, its moments of innovation and change. As always, Carpi's words shun all ambiguity and simplism, yet they never close the door, rather open perspectives, show understanding of others' reasons, even if they are not shared. Carpi never ceased to sow and weave "culture"; his commitment was actually a tiring and coherent passage always and in any case of a cultural journey. And for him culture is identity, not merely belonging. Identity, however, never ideological, but always respectful and enriching, based on reciprocity. I am sure that I am expressing the unanimous sentiment of this House in addressing an affectionate greeting to the family members of Umberto Carpi and in inviting all colleagues to observe, in his memory, a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u11	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Umberto Carpi has linked us with a relationship of friendship and work that has been formed and strengthened over the years, with intense cooperation in the first place as an undersecretary to industry in the Prodi Government and in the first Government of Alema. Born in Bolzano on 21 May 1941, he never forgot his relationship with South Tyrol-Südtirol, with the history and deep motivations of our special autonomy. Also for this reason, between us and Umberto Carpi there has always been an intense dialogue and important decisions have been taken, because of its political sensitivity and awareness of its responsibilities as a government. He was a concrete, frank, pragmatic man, of whom we have always appreciated competence and loyalty. It played a decisive role in the elaboration of the implementing rule to our special Statute, which delegated the competences for the release of the large hydroelectric concessions to the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. I remember the countless meetings in the Ministry in Via Veneto, which were often concluded with a glass of grappa, in sign of friendship and sharing. He was never impressed by the extreme pressures of the colossus ENEL and Edison and by the strong opposition of part of the ministerial apparatus. Instead, it tried to find fair solutions that also take into account the legitimate demands of the local populations. We have always appreciated his determination, his commitment and his sensitivity to the wounds inflicted on the population of Graun Curon, in Val Venosta, who in the fifties saw their country sink into the waters of the lake of Resia. He has often been there to have a direct and constant conversation with the mayors and other civil society representatives. He played a decisive role with the then minister Pierluigi Bersani and the unfortunately disappeared Paola Manzini, in the launch of the rule that foreseen the expiry of the concession Edison in 2001 and established the new structure that allowed the Venostani municipalities to assume a significant participation in the production society and thus finally have justice. For us it was a rule of epochal scope and certainly one of the most important measures of the implementation of the De Gasperi-Gruber agreement of 5 September 1946. In 2006 he again assumed a decisive role, as consultant to Minister Bersani, in closing the dispute with the European Union regarding hydroelectric concessions, thus paving the way for the release, for the first time in Italy, of concessions for large derivations for hydropower purposes by an autonomous Province. Also on behalf of the entire population of Val Venosta, I thank Senator Carpi, who will remain forever in our memory. It is indisputable, from whatever political perspective one can observe his political and institutional commitment, that Umberto Carpi has always inspired his role to a profound and rigorous public ethics and has distinguished himself, first in his university life, for a free and coherent intellectual research, without prejudice. A patrimony of ideas and analysis that he has elaborated and trained as a scholar and teacher, professor of Italian literature and principal of the faculty of letters and philosophy in his Pisa. The motivations of his intellectual journey have supported his political and parliamentary experience in the XII and XIII legislatures. The deep reasons for his parliamentary and government action were the attention, never rhetorical or formal, to society as a whole, with a human imprint and an intellectual vision strongly rooted in the history of the Italian left and deeply open to confrontation and identification of possible understandings. Politics and universities shared his sensitivity and skills. The Senate and the Government saw him as a leading member. He is part of that category of people who escape, by political idea and cultural and social vision, not their own responsibilities, but a destiny that is exclusively individual, in order to adhere, always, to a common perspective that is primarily the search for a growth, cultural or economic that is, of the country as a whole. For this reason, when exponents like Umberto Carpi miss our request for comparison, the loss is general. Of this Assembly, of its left and of its university [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD and Senator Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u14	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, memories are sad, in any case; if they are ugly, because they are ugly, if they are beautiful because they remember. However, since it is often the case here that we celebrate the memory of distinguished colleagues, more or less close to us in time, I immediately say that the few words I would like to dedicate to the memory and the figure of Professor Umberto Carpi, distinguished Italianist, Senator of the Republic and Undersecretary of Industry for two legislatures, will be topical notes more than referring to some moments of heartbreaking nostalgia, even personally lived. Umberto Carpi said of himself on the "Corriere della Sera" of 30 November 1993: I am a physiological communist, who wants efficiency from state institutions and who, if necessary, fights for the closed number. The closed number was a taboo for a certain part of the Italian culture and academy of the time. In this definition is summarized the profile of the political Carpi, of the man and of the academic, that I had occasion to know and to appreciate as a professor of Italian literature at the University of Pisa during my first university studies. In the same University of Pisa, Umberto Carpi was principal in very difficult and complex years, in a Faculty of letters still traumatized, I would say, disoriented by that cyclone of change, transformation and innovative thought that the Sixty-eight, there more than elsewhere (you will have memory of it), had brought. Carpi had been a convinced protagonist of the Sixty-eight Pisan, he had been a promoter of it in some way. He was also a creator of that battle of openness and renewal of the Italian university and culture, but without giving anything to the laxism of the new (it was the years of the 18th political and the 30th insured, at least in the humanistic faculties) and without denying the cornerstones of the old (the Humboldtian university understood as inseparable association between teaching and research and as a school of critical knowledge). Similarly, it can be said that in the exercise of academic power, as well as its political roles, those of parliament and those of government, Carpi was strictly open to novelty, but inflexible in the assumption and attribution of responsibilities. With the key words of his human profile as a scholar and politician, who are rigorous, seeking change and a sense of responsibility, I believe that we can and must dedicate today to Professor and Senator Umberto Carpi not only a heartfelt note of memory and celebration of his work for the culture and life of the country, but also draw from it a fundamental principle for the activity we carry out daily in this Chamber. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, PdL and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u17	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, it is with a feeling not of circumstance that I accepted the Group's invitation to take part in the commemoration of Senator Umberto Carpi. I am one of the few who had the chance to know him, in 1994, on the benches of the Senate, and I can therefore personally testify to his great professionalism, his spirit of openness to dialogue and the strong awareness of his ideas. He was able to combine the rigor deriving from the South Tyrolean birth and the great humanistic culture that distinguished his life of study and academic activity. It did not for nothing demonstrate, in the continuation of its institutional activity, that politics can also be of interest in areas other than that of its own studies, and can also be addressed with great awareness and determination of ideas, and above all with the proposal. In fact, he dealt with the Industry Commission: I remember it in 1994, not only in the Chamber, but also in the Commission, during the long night sessions, when he opposed the hypothesis of the bill on energy reform, where he found the unexpected shore of another great man of culture, then elected on the lists of Forza Italia, Senator Merigliano, former rector of the University of Padua. Therefore, we are grateful to Umberto Carpi for the great lesson he gave us in opening the dialogue, but also in competence and professionalism. I should like to conclude by stressing that people like Umberto Carpi are the people that every Italian citizen should wish to have as a representative in Parliament and that every Parliament should wish to have as its representative. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u20	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I am aware that it is not easy, never, in any place, to remember a person who is no longer among us, and to try to give a short sense of life, without ending up in rhetoric or indulging in making it an opportunity to talk above all about ourselves. Less than ever here, in the Senate Chamber, in a place in Parliament, where the norm is confrontation and confrontation between legitimately different approaches, on acts of government and on draft laws. The risk is to turn death into something trivial, and that doesn't have to happen. All the more because our time has expelled death from the collective dimension, relegating it to the most reserved and almost hidden spaces of individual and family affections. But this outcome is not linked to any more respect or sharing; it is linked instead to an illusion of power, of our full control over existence, on which to shape the common sense. Instead, I believe that it is a duty, and the Senate has done well, to remember Umberto Carpi: senator for two legislatures, undersecretary with Minister Bersani from 1996 to 1999, and, at the end of the parliamentary activity, mayor of Crespina, the Municipality of Pisa in which he lived. The Senate has done well because, whatever the commons or differences with those who have left us, a state that does not keep the memory and does not indicate the merits of the citizens who have dedicated themselves to the life of the nation could not aspire to any worthy future, less than ever today, when the distance between politics, culture and citizens is so wide. Umberto Carpi lived to the end with values and beliefs as a left-wing man, capable of respecting others, those who had different values and beliefs and far from his own. As you recalled, Umberto Carpi was born in Bolzano, but he lived his whole life in Pisa: where he completed his university studies, there he was a city councilman from 1975 to 1980 and there he carried out, except for a period in Rome at the University "La Sapienza" (La Sapienza University), his activity as a professor of Italian literature, becoming director of the institute and then head of the faculty. So much had he tied himself to Pisa that everyone there knew him by the name of, "Paci", the one with which he also answered the phone, the one with which since childhood they called him in his family. A characteristic to be emphasized is therefore this: his passion for studies and for the training of generations of students and, together, civil and political commitment. A real and serious commitment, so much so that, as I said, after the experience of senator and undersecretary, he made the mayor in his small town of 3,700 inhabitants, enhancing that cultural vocation that, starting from the second half of the nineteenth century, had made it a center frequented by important artists of Macchiaioli. Another aspect for me and for all of us worthy of reflection is this: Professor of Italian literature, politically engaged in Parliament and the Government in areas such as industry, commerce, tourism, energy. It is not forbidden in political life for a doctor to deal with public health, a town planner and public works, a school teacher, but, unlike officials of the public administration (for whom there is actually a direct relationship between specific competence and role played), it is not mandatory. A minister or a council member are not general directors of their department: those who have responsibilities in politics are required to be rigorous, to be thorough, to know, because amateurism is ephemeral, but the skills required are different; they are linked to the experience, strength and clarity of a project, to the ability to connect energies, to organize them, to motivate people. Umberto Carpi carried out his duties in politics well: he had passion and gained a deep knowledge for the sectors to which he was delegated. He committed himself to the issues of energy, on the reorganization of the distribution networks of fuels, he sought with determination, in comparison with the oil companies, more just balances that would safeguard the rights of consumers. Before, much earlier, as a student, he had been the protagonist of one of the most significant pages of the student movement and of the Sixty-eight, destined to be one of the references for young people who came also after the political commitment, starting from school and university: he had collaborated in the drafting, in February 1967, of the "Tesi della Sapienza" (Thesis of Wisdom), called thus from the headquarters of the rectorate occupied for protest at a national meeting of the rectors. In these Thesis there is a hard criticism of the Italian academic system, of an organization of knowledge divided into watertight compartments; there are proposals such as that of departments based on interdisciplinary and democratic management of academic life, capable of associating students to decision-making processes. There was a reading of students as a workforce in training and a call for representative organisational structures similar to those of workers' unions. The axis was that of a link between struggles within the University and labour conflicts outside it: the working class was placed at the center of every transformation action of society and the need to create organic links between the student movement and the worker was supported. As is evident, not everything that was in the "Thesis of Wisdom" is able to speak to this present of ours, but no doubt they are not in those settings supporting absurd subsequent claims, such as that of the guaranteed vote. On the other hand, the value of training is firmly established; the outlook and perspective of a better functioning of the learning and research system, of a wider access to knowledge, beyond the income conditions that weighed, and still weigh heavily, on the destiny of young people. If you go to the Internet sites - and I am impressed by that, Mr President, and I want to say so at the end of my speech - and type the voice 'Umberto Carpi', you will find the Italian academic and political term 'no problem'. Some sites then write: "It was always close to PCI environments and Philostalinist trends." The first part of this expression is true; the second part is incredibly false, empty of foundation. Umberto Carpi, with Cazzaniga, gave life to one of the motions contrary to the overcoming of the PCI and did not immediately accede to the new party. But the falseness to which I refer is much deeper than an inaccuracy that is not known that Carpi later found himself - after a phase with Communist Refoundation - in the Left Democrats and finally with us in the Democratic Party. Falseness is deeper and concerns the Stalinist, hasty and liquidatory tendencies towards many who did not share our choice to go beyond the PCI and formed other organizations; unjust and groundless towards Umberto, who - I use the words of the Mayor of Pisa - maintained its consistent imprint in the ability to dialogue beyond the fences, with an intellectual openness that nourished and enriched with human generosity, passion for culture, attachment to the beauty of life. There was in the PCI, and then in the different positions contrary to its overcoming, also that of a gradual reformism in national politics, but worried about the risk of a loss of the peculiarities that had marked in positive the experience of the Italian communists. With those settings, at the end of the eighties (allow this only personal reference), we clashed politically, even harshly, without any less respect and esteem. Then with some - not a few - we found ourselves, but to define Stalinists as cultural personalities like Umberto Carpi or, on another floor, going on this road, like Cesare Luporini, Nicola Badaloni or Aldo Zanardo, to make examples, is not only meaningless, but is an offense to the truth. One last word about what was one of the reasons of your life and that you remembered, the passion for literature. You mentioned the works Carpi wrote. I want to make this remark: in Umberto Carpi's literary research, a theme is fundamental, the one related to the analysis of Italian society. Carpi assumes that in modern society the writer is a determined social figure and that his production has an objective political value. In particular, for Carpi the link between poetry and politics characterized the social function of the poet in the nineteenth century, when it comes to defining itself as an ideology and a cultural horizon closely related to the struggle of the Risorgimento. The analysis of the social position and ideological orientation of intellectuals is an essential tool for him to understand the nature of their own literary proposal. With this criterion, he will read Leopardi's and Carducci's poetics. Thus, even from Leopardi's failure to participate in the cultural enterprise of the Viesseux and the "Anthology", Carpi made a negative judgment regarding the progressive character of the position and literary production of the poet of Recanati. This reconstruction led him to strong controversy with Timpanaro and with the same Cesare Luporini, author of that book, "Leopardi progressiveo", which for many of us has been and remains fundamental for an understanding of the Leopardian work. Umberto Carpi was able to face with courage and dignity the terrible evil that had struck him for over two years. To a common friend, who had called him a few days before his death to ask him how he was, from his country house where he wanted to retire, to lead his final battle, he said: Two years ago, when I diagnosed the tumor, they gave me a few months of life. I'm still here and I'm working. He worked with the passion of always around an intervention, which he had found, by Togliatti in 1954 on the theme of historiography, in controversy with Arturo Colombi. This time, however, he did not make it: he died and now we lack his intelligence, his vivacity, his passion, his full sense of life, his culture and his commitment. On the other hand, since death is a common destiny and it is not possible to escape it, in our hands it is only like facing it. Trusted to us, that is, it is only what we leave to others, that of us will remain here, whether there is a post that overcomes death, and that is stronger than our own rational convictions. Umberto Carpi left us a trace, a contribution that goes beyond the circle of his affections and friendships. Of him will remain the commitment in the institutions and the great contribution to the knowledge of our literature. That's why we're grateful to him. That's why it was right for the Senate to honor him. With these sentiments, we still greet him with affection. I am close, on behalf of the Democratic Party Group, with sincerity and friendship, to his family and in the first place to his children. [[Live applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u21	We greet the students of the classical high school "Giosuè Carducci" of Nola, in the province of Naples, who are following our works from the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u24	Mr Galletti, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to recall Professor Carpi mainly as an academic, scholar and guide for his students; a man of great culture, a man of politics and administration; a simple, direct and passionate in his activity, through which he has never ceased to confront the problems of a constantly changing reality. Umberto Carpi has been the protagonist of the historical events of Italian politics. He studied and perfected in Pisa, where he was a student of the faculty of letters and philosophy and of the School of Normal Highness. Professor of Italian literature from 1975, first at the University of Rome and then at Pisa; he was director of the Italian Institute of Literature from 1979 to 1982; later he held the position of principal of the Faculty of Letters and Philosophy of the University of Pisa. Professor Carpi has always combined with passion and vigor the leading role for his students, establishing himself as one of the main scholars of the twentieth century avant-gardes, by Belli, Leopardi, Montale and Carducci, with political passion and civil commitment. He was one of the most important figures in the cultural and academic world of our country; a personality that, with its activity and constant commitment, marked the evolution of the Italian university, and of the Pisan one in particular, starting from the late 1970s. As university professor Umberto Carpi has worked with intellectual and civil passion, becoming a fundamental reference point for entire generations of students. As a scholar he has dealt with the relationship between literature and politics, publishing numerous volumes and essays such as "Montale" after Fascism, "The poet" and "politics." Beautiful, Leopardi, Montale and the extreme avant-garde of the 20th century. In the last years of his career he has dedicated himself to the biographical and ideological reconstruction of Dante's personality, proposing works rich in new discoveries including the volume "La nobiltà di Dante" (The Nobility of Dante). Carpi leaves a great patrimony, both as a scholar and for his path of militancy on the left, from the movements of change in Italy of the sixties to militancy in the PCI, to the experiences of parliamentarians and positions of Government, with a consistent and above all constantly marked by dialogue. It remains intact in us the memory of the strong passion with which Umberto Carpi lived his academic activity and his political commitment: a passion that did not abandon him even when he had to face the hard battle against the disease that struck him. He, Umberto Carpi, fought this battle with an open face, as he had always done in his life. I express the most heartfelt closeness to family members and relatives from all over the government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u25	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups approved the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until 29 October and supplemented this week's schedule with the discussion of the Cucchetti motion on Telecom Italia's corporate structure, as well as with the President's communications pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft stability law. In relation to the work of the Budget Commission, these communications will take place on Thursday 17 October. Once the communications have been made, the draft Stability and Budget Act will be referred to the 5th Permanent Commission and the budgetary session will therefore begin. The Commission will forward its reports to the Budget Commission by Tuesday 29 October. Further discussion of financial documents will be decided by a subsequent Conference of Leaders. At the next Thursday's question time, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion will answer questions on the programming and management of the European Structural Funds and on territorial cohesion policies. The calendar for next week, at the afternoon session on Tuesday 22, will include communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 October 2013. The times have been divided among the Groups. At the end of the debate, policy instruments could be voted on. The IMU decree-law will then be examined, if transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies. In order to allow the adoption of the measure, due to expire on 30 October, voting sessions were scheduled until Friday 25 and, if necessary, on Monday 28 and Tuesday 29 October. The week from 28 to 31 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions in relation to the budgetary session and the decree-laws in expiration, subject to the possible follow-up of the examination of the decree-law in matter of IMU. Should the House of Deputies approve with amendments the decree-law on public administration, already approved by the Senate and due to expire on 30 October, the schedule of the week will be supplemented with the examination of this provision and the Presidency may provide for further meetings for its discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u28	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to make the House aware of some of the information I have received on my behalf but which I believe should be the subject of attention from this House. I know that this matter must also be dealt with at the Conference of Leaders, but the case is too serious not to tell the House. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities met in public session to discuss the disputed election of Senator Silvio Berlusconi on 4 October 2013 at 9.41 a.m. At 10.40 a.m., President Stefano suspended the public session to allow the Council Chamber to be held, which began at 11 a.m. After completion of the Council Chamber, the public session resumed at 16.35 and ended at 16.40. During the work of the Junta (9,41 - 16,40) the Facebook and Twitter profiles of some members of the Junta were updated. Senator De Monte, during the public session, published 10 Facebook posts between 10:12 a.m. and 10:40 a.m., briefly taking into account what was happening at the meeting and, in a single case, giving an assessment of the questions addressed to the lawyer. There are no updates to your profile during the board room. According to press reports, Senator Buccarella also posted updates on his Facebook profile during the public hearing, interrupting the update of his profile during the boardroom. Senator Pezzopane published five posts during the public session (from 9:55 a.m. to 10:37 a.m.), taking into account the progress of the public session. After the beginning of the chamber of council, 2 messages are published - respectively at 13:17 and 15:54 - concerning the revision of the judicial geography, with reference to the court of Sulmona. Senator Giarrusso, at 10:01 a.m., posted on his Facebook profile a photo of him and Senator Fucksia while attending the public session. On the same profile, at 13.28 a link was published to refer to an initiative promoted by the 5 Star Movement. Senator Giovanardi's Twitter profile was updated during the council chamber with 6 posts between 12:07 and 12:17, expressing considerations on issues within the political movement to which he belongs. At 2.35 p.m., a press release was issued on behalf of the senator in response to certain statements made by Mr Buttiglione. At 3:46 p.m., Senator Giovanardi's press office issued a statement stating that the reply to Mr Buttiglione's statements was written by the press office itself without the senator's knowledge. On the official Facebook page of Senator Casson appeared two posts, respectively at 14.26 and 14.28, related to a meeting on the problem of large ships in Venice. The Facebook profile of Senator Stefani - I emphasize how this way of communicating is absolutely bipartisan - was updated during the board room at 15:37, taking into account his participation in the "Tg2". Senator Crimi, at 10:04 a.m., made a comment about Senator Berlusconi on his Facebook profile. After the beginning of the chamber of council 2 additional messages are published: at 11:43 am on the parliamentary work of the week and at 12:08 pm on the anniversary of the birth of the 5 Star Movement. At 14:18 on the profile of Senator Crimi was released a post signed by his collaborator, who claims to be the author of the interventions published during the council chamber. This circumstance was confirmed by Senator Crimi in his letter to the President of the Senate of 8 October 2013, in which, while recognizing the paternity of the post of 10:04 am, he specified that the subsequent updates to the beginning of the works in the council room were inserted by his collaborators, since they were generic interventions previously agreed. In this regard, he attached the list of persons authorised to operate on his page. During the council chamber, according to reports from some press agencies, Senator Malan asked the Presidency of the Junta to suspend work due to the post published on Facebook by Senator Crimi at 10.04 am, considered offensive to Senator Berlusconi. According to the agencies, President Stefano, while stigmatizing the behaviour of Senator Crimi, denied the suspension, believing that the episode did not constitute a cause of force majeure such as to justify an interruption of the work. This, Mr President, is all that is publicly obtainable only by consulting Facebook and Twitter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, what is this document? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). This is what you can find on Facebook or Twitter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, that's what I read during the group leaders' meeting. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would never have said that because I am a private person. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The document you have read is precisely the inquiry that has been made in a non-bipartisan way, but on all sides, by this Presidency to give an account of a situation. So you have read a document that has been drawn up by the Presidency. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). You signed it, however, Mr President; I did not want it. Put it on him. What I wanted to stress, Mr President, and I am sure of the work you are going to do in the Presidency Council on this matter, is that only by consulting Facebook and Twitter, there are ten people who were communicating with the outside world, and if I go and look at all the social networks, I find that they have probably all done so. I believe that when the Junta has to decide on the fate of a person, even more so if he is the President of the second or first party of a relative majority, he must do so with greater rigour, severity and seriousness. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u29	For the sake of completeness and to inform the House - if it is not already informed - that this same document will be the subject of evaluation by the Presidency Council. Thus, something that is already in the internal corporis has been anticipated at the Senate evaluation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u32	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I do not support Senator Calderoli's initiative at all because he ridicules a body that is absolutely serious, where there are serious people and, probably, there are serious people even among those who have communicated with the outside world. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having never communicated with anyone outside, having done my duty and never expressed opinions on anything, I still feel involved in a ridicule that is absolutely part of show politics and to which we must put an embarrassment. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u34	I have the floor, but I did not intend to open a debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u35	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on a personal note. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Do so quickly because Minister Quagliariello must take part in the Council of Ministers. FUCKSIA (M5S). We all know that there is both active smoke and passive smoke damage: obviously even in Junta there is passive photo damage, in the sense that I did not ask for it, I did not do it and I did not communicate with the outside. I tend to point out, however, that today Facebook and Twitter are stalking us and the damage and benefits we all have. I agree with Senator Lo Moro, because the Junta has worked well in the moments when it had to enter into the matter; for all the rest, those who were presented as secrets were secrets of Pulcinella, because it is different time that we communicate what everyone already knows.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u36	As can be seen from the preliminary investigation, which has been completed, no element regarding the merit of the board came out, so its clarification is absolutely ultronea. This is a problem of modus operandi within the structures of the Senate, the Commissions or the Juntas. [[Senator Giarrusso nods that he wants to ask for the word]] Senator Giarrusso, you're right, but he'll talk at the end of his session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u37	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - integrations to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until 29 October 2013: [[Tuesday 15 October pom. h. 16-20 - Statement by the Minister for Constitutional Reforms on the final report of the Committee for Constitutional Reforms - Drawing of Constitutional Law n. 813-B - Establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms (Second Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Drawing of Law n. 884 - Ratifica Agreement Albania, Greece and Italy on the project "Trans Adriatic Pipeline" - Motion n. 149, Ghedini Rita, on the process of democratization in Myanmar - Motion n. 160, Cows, on the corporate structure of Telecom Italia - Communications of the President, pursuant to Article 126, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Regulation, on the content of the bill of Stability (Thursday 17) (*) Wednesday 16 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 17 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 17 October pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion on: Ø programming and management of the European Structural Funds; Ø territorial cohesion policies (*) The President's communications on the content of the Stability Bill may take place during the afternoon or afternoon session (after the question time) of Thursday 17 in relation to the work of the Budget Commission. Immediately after the President's communications, the draft Stability and Budget Laws will be assigned to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referee and to the other Commissions in the consultative session. The budget session will begin from then on. The Commission will forward its reports to the Budget Commission by Tuesday 29 October. Further discussion of financial documents will be decided by a subsequent Conference of Leaders.]] [[Tuesday 22 October pom. h. 16 - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of Brussels of 24 and 25 October 2013 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law No 102, IMU (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) (It falls on 30 October) Wednesday 23 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 24 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16 Friday 25 " ant. h. 9.30 The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No.... (Decree-Law No. 102, IMU) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies.]] [[Monday, October 28 pom. h. 16,30 (if necessary) - Eventually followed bill n.... - Decree-Law n. 102, IMU (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) (It falls on 30 October) Tuesday 29 " ant. h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] Without prejudice to the possible follow-up of the examination of Decree-Law No 102 the week from 28 to 31 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions in relation to the budgetary session and the decree-laws in expiration. Should the House of Deputies approve with amendments Decree-Law 101 on public administration, already approved by the Senate and due to expire on 30 October, the schedule of the week will be supplemented by the examination of this provision and the Presidency may provide for further meetings for its discussion. Time distribution for communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 October 2013 (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 35' PdL 31' M5S 21' SCp 14' LN-Aut 13' Mixed 13' GAL 12' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 12' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 102, IMU) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 09' PdL 1 h. 01' M5S 42' SCp 28' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u38	The next item is the report by the Minister for Constitutional Reforms on the Commission's final report on constitutional reforms. I note that the debate on the Minister's information will take place in conjunction with the discussion of constitutional bill 813-B, establishing the parliamentary committee for constitutional and electoral reforms. I call the Minister for Constitutional Reform, Senator Quagliariello.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of institutional reforms is one of the central hubs of the programme on which the Government gained confidence from the Chambers last May. In order to carry out this mandate in a timely manner, the Government, on 11 June 2013, established a Committee of Experts on Constitutional Reforms, with the aim of fully but rapidly instructing the issues related to the reform of Titles I, II, III and V of Part II of the Constitution and the related reform of the electoral law. It is an honour for me to be able to report to Parliament today well in advance of the deadlines set for the outcome of the Commission's work. I would immediately like to say that the Commission has carried out an intense and complex activity, dealing with issues that have been at the heart of the debate for many years - and often of the political confrontation, without ever losing sight of its objective, that is to offer without prejudice analyses and elements of reflection as much as possible argued. Of course, that is the Commission's job. These ideas of analysis can then be taken into account or not by Parliament, which remains absolutely sovereign in its ability and prerogatives, and then be the real protagonist of the reform. The task was certainly not to prepare an organic reform proposal, which could instead have created rigidity in the subsequent development of the institutional process. Rather, it was a question of facilitating the exercise of the power of initiative and deliberation which is the responsibility of the constitutional bodies and, above all, of Parliament, which is responsible for implementing the reforms necessary to modernise the republican institutions. In this spirit, the Commission, made up of lawyers and scholars with different cultural and political-institutional sensitivities, has endeavoured in advance to nuclearize the elements of sharing rather than the points of fracture, in order to counter those temptations to constitutional conservatism and modelism which for years have paralysed any attempt at reform. The first result of this method can be found in a widely shared diagnosis of the problems to be solved and the objectives to be pursued. In this sense, the Commission has carried out its work in an awareness of the gravity and nature of the non-conjunctural crisis in Italy and of the indissoluble and increasingly evident interweaving between the solidity and quality of the institutional structure and the continuation of a recession that affects social cohesion itself. The country's difficulties are not alien to the weakness of our institutions, conceived at a very different historical stage from the current one and are progressively inadequate to face effectively the challenges arising from the changed world economic context as well as those related to the process of European integration. Unlike the other major democracies of the West, which have long been affected by incisive reform processes, our country has been devoid of instruments to match the decisions to be taken in an increasingly competitive global context and in a European framework in which states, in addition to respecting the strict budgetary rules, are called to contribute to the definition of strategies for development and employment and to the implementation of public policies that have an increasing and pervasive impact on the lives of citizens and on the work of businesses. Policies that today are articulated in a multilevel system of government, between the European Union, the State and territorial autonomy - a multilevel system much more complex and articulated than in the past - and that therefore need to be carefully calibrated, also in order to safeguard the framework of the values and fundamental principles of the Constitution of 1947, and not to frustrate its installation in order to protect the important achievements achieved in terms of civil and social rights. On these fundamental premises, which make the issue of reforms no longer elusive, the Commission has deepened the reasons underlying the fragility of our political and institutional system, finding in the inability to express in the long term a stable political direction rooted in the consent of the social body one of the most important elements of criticality, which appeared, in turn, directly connected to a process of weakening the system of political parties, which in Italy has assumed more serious characteristics than in other European contexts. As the Commission's final report, adopted on 17 September last, states, the parties - without which, it should be stressed, a democratic system is not even conceivable - have appeared in serious difficulty in fulfilling their main constitutional functions of linking society and institutions, of selecting the ruling class and of developing and implementing broad-based public policy strategies. The crisis of parties, as irreplaceable instruments through which citizens contribute to determining national politics, has reverberated directly on the powers of Parliament and the Government, prejudiced their proper functioning in terms of efficiency of decision-making circuits, stability of governments, effectiveness of public policies and authority of institutions and the political body as a whole. The history of the last few years clearly shows how these difficulties have spread over time, and the institutional stalemate that has arisen since the last parliamentary elections has offered a dramatic and dramatic representation of it. We are experiencing a paradox: on the one hand, the crisis of the parties would require an incisive intervention of reform of the institutions, able to restore their strength and legitimacy; on the other hand, that same weakness constitutes a formidable obstacle to the achievement of this reform. In the last twenty years in Italy we have cultivated the illusion that to build a modern democracy deciding it was enough to reform the electoral law in the majority sense. The ultimate effect of this approach was to push the political framework towards forms of alternation, but without gaining anything in terms of efficiency, balance and overall performance of the system. We have thus moved from the immobile instability of the so-called first Republic to the hectic instability of the current phase, where governments may last a little longer (but not even so much: nineteen months on average), but their capacity for implementation is even less than that which was experienced in the past when, despite the presence of short and unstable Executives, the substantial fixedness of the general political balances allowed strategies for reform of a broader scope. It is necessary to clear the field from the illusion of being able to remedy the serious deficits of decision-making capacity, stability and representativeness with yet another intervention on the electoral system alone, or relying on the exclusive spontaneous dynamics of political parties. Reforms also serve to promote a process of strengthening and regeneration of parties, which enables them to dialogue within and between themselves, making the reasons for unity prevail rather than those of conflict, sterile and sometimes a priori opposition. On that point, you will allow me to make a plain political remark. In recent weeks, the theme of the defence of bipolarism has been strongly put by some people, which would be threatened by the experience of the broad understanding on which the government chaired by Enrico Letta is founded. Well, I too am convinced that bipolarism - and with it the alternation of government between the various political groups - is not only an irreversible element acquired by our political culture, but also a factor of transparency and democracy of the system. I am also convinced that the experience of the Government of broad understanding is a parenthesis due to the political, economic and social circumstances in which Italy is located today. I believe, however, that the problem is not to defend the bipolarism that we have experienced in the last twenty years; the problem is rather to draw our institutions in such a way as to make possible a well-tempered bipolarism, in which to face are not two armed factions with the only objective of destroying the enemy, but two alternative political groups, mutually respectful and united when the fundamental values of our community are in question. This objective requires, on the one hand, an evolution of political cultures and, on the other hand, a reform of the institutions which favours them. We need a path that restores strength and authority to political representation and that, without affecting the alternation between different sides at the head of the country, facilitates the comparison on the things to do in the interest of the country itself and the construction of consensus on the basis of opposing principles, ideals and proposals of government, but still concrete and forward-looking. While the diagnosis of the problems and the analysis of the objectives constitute the red thread around which the Commission's work has broken down, the various institutional sensitivities and legal cultures present in it have revealed, in the various areas of reform, positions sometimes unanimous or slightly divergent, such other differentiated on the basis of alternative options subordinate to certain fundamental choices. In particular, the Commission's final report, which is divided into six chapters, on which I will now briefly address, has identified four main areas of constitutional reform, the implementation of which has been unanimously considered necessary. These areas are as follows. Firstly, the strengthening of Parliament by reducing the number of parliamentarians; the overcoming of the bicameralism of equality; a more complete regulation of the legislative production processes and, in particular, a stricter discipline of the decree of urgency. Secondly, the strengthening of the prerogatives of the Government in Parliament through single-chamber trust, the simplification of decision-making and the introduction of a fixed-date vote for draft laws. Thirdly, the reform of the constitutional system of the regions and local self-governments, which significantly reduces the overlaps of competences and builds on greater collaboration and less conflict. Fourthly, the reform of the system of government, which has been envisaged in three different possible options. The first is the rationalization of the existing form of parliamentary government. The second is semi-presidency on the French model. The third is a form of government that, by trying to take on the needs underlying both the first two solutions, leads to the Prime Minister's parliamentary government. The report does not deal with issues relating to the reform of justice, which is also an important part of the state's reform plan, given that much of the work carried out on the implementation of the principle of fair trial, referred to in the relatively new Article 111 of the Constitution, still needs to be done. This choice derives first of all from the indications that have come from Parliament, which, with the motions approved on 29 May last, has delimited the scope of the special process of constitutional revision, governed by the draft law currently being examined by the Chambers for the second resolution. It should also be considered how the core of the reform of justice consists of actions that mainly concern ordinary legislation. Of course, these considerations do not in any way affect the centrality of the issue, which will have to be the necessary completion of the reform process of the institutions, on which we are committed. In this regard, I have already begun the necessary contacts with the Minister of Justice to establish a coordination table that will lead the Government to submit its proposals for reform to Parliament, in the wake of the indications made by the working group set up by President Napolitano last May. So let us return to the report. I will not dwell on the detailed assessments contained in each of the sections. It was my duty to send a copy of the report to the Senate Presidency and, in view of today's debate, to send it to all my fellow senators. I think it is quite appropriate here to focus only on the most politically sensitive points. I begin with the chapter dedicated to overcoming equal bicameralism. As far as the reform of Parliament's structure is concerned, the Commission has unanimously voted in favour of overcoming the current equal and symmetric bicameralism, which is now a uniform in the constitutional and comparative landscape and is a powerful factor in slowing down decision-making processes and, often, also destabilizing the form of government. The virtues of perfect bicameralism, wanted by the constituent assembly so that no one could be completely excluded from the political direction, have over time turned into critical. Two Houses that both have to vote for the government, with non-coincident electoral systems and a differentiated active and passive electorate, make any majority precarious. Nearly 1,000 Members who have to vote on identical legislative texts make frequent defatigantic shuttles, favouring the use of a nerve obstruction, which prevents the adoption of measures in physiological times. In this context, during the Commission's work, the hypothesis of introducing a form of differentiated bicameralism was prevalent, in which the second Chamber was assigned the essential function of representation and liaison with regional and territorial self-governments. Moreover, it has received some consensus also the hypothesis of unifying the two Chambers, according to the model of monocameralism, in which the instances of connection with the territorial autonomy would be satisfied through the constitutionalization of the system of the State-Regions-Local Conferences and which, in the opinion of its supporters, would have the advantage of simplifying the institutional system and of stabilising the form of government, as well as the advantage of making easier a reform process that, without a choice of prevalence between the two Chambers, would presumably encounter less resistance. In the case of differentiated bicameralism, only one Chamber would be the holder of the relationship of trust and political direction; the second Chamber would be representative of the territorial authorities, understood both as territory and as institutions. This option is motivated both by the need to guarantee the national government certainty of having a political majority, faster decisions and therefore greater stability, and by the need to complete the process of building an autonomous system consistent with a Chamber that is an expression of territorial autonomy and guarantees the effectiveness of the principle of loyal collaboration between the different levels of government. In this context, Parliament would continue to be in the Chamber and Senate, but the two bodies would have different functions and compositions. Both chambers would vote on the laws, according to a different division of legislative powers defined in the Constitution. In addition, both branches of Parliament would exercise the functions of controlling the government's work and evaluating public policies, even if the Chamber, the sole owner of the trusted relationship, would have a prevalence in the exercise of the legislative function (except for the hypothesis of bicameral laws) and the Senate instead a prevalence in the exercise of the control functions. With regard to the composition of the Senate, the Commission first focused on the alternative between direct election and indirect election of senators. It did not express itself, however, by assessing the different options in a key of overall coherence of the system and in the light of the adjustment of the legislative and administrative functions and competences between the State and the autonomous. In any case, the Commission has considered it absolutely prevalent that the Presidents of the Region should be members of the Senate by right, without however the recognition of any remuneration (except the reimbursement of expenses), nor the possibility of access, for the commitment to the institution of origin, to the offices inside the Senate (Presidency, Offices of President of the Assembly, the Commissions and the Councils). As regards the number of parliamentarians, the Commission noted in advance how the issue of the cost of political activities should be distinguished from that of the cost of democracy, stressing in particular how the question of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians actually falls from the multiplication of the seats of representation compared to the time of the Constitution, as well as from the need to strengthen the competence, prestige and reputation of the legislative assemblies. In any event, the Commission noted that, because of the specific characteristics of the representation that are required to ensure the senators, their number should be determined Region by Region, in proportion to the inhabitants, considering a total number of senators not less than 150 and not more than 200 appropriate. As for the House of Deputies, we could move from the current criterion of one Member per 95,000 inhabitants to a parameter more in line with the European standards of one Member per 125,000 inhabitants, from which would result a total of 480 Members. If one were to follow a more restrictive criterion, one could instead refer to and use the Spanish parameter and then define in the Constitution a composition of the House of 450 Members. With regard to the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, the Commission's report confirms the critical judgment on the effects of the legislative decentralisation implemented by the 2001 reform: to a devolution not inferior, at least on paper, to that which characterizes countries with a high federalism rate have not paid suitable means of coordination and of connection between the central government and the system of autonomy. The political management of the complicated distribution of legislative powers has remained the preserve of the system of conferences; sufficient solution for a purely administrative decentralisation, which is certainly not sufficient for a decentralisation of legislative type as well. The lack of a real link with territorial autonomy has thus facilitated the explosion of a frightening constitutional dispute, with the consequent prevalence of fragmentation and uncertainty of the law. This led to a sort of anarchist polycentrism, without effective coordination, where the right of veto risks blocking the majority of decisions. With a view to rationalising the current Title V of Part II of the Constitution, the report proposes, unanimously, a significant reduction in overlaps of competences, greater cooperation and less conflict. For example, the need to bring back to the competence of the State legislature certain matters of national interest improperly attributed to competing legislation: from large transport and navigation networks, to national energy transport and distribution production, to the order of communication. With regard to the further prospects for reform, however, there have been two alternative positions: the first considers it appropriate to simplify with determination the criteria for allocating legislative powers, surpassing the shared competence, assigning to the regions all matters not expressly attributed to the State's competence and providing at the same time a safeguard clause to protect the legal or economic unity of the Republic. This is also to ensure that the distribution of legislative power between the State and the Regions takes place in terms of functions and objectives, rather than according to the criterion, considered by some anachronistic, of matters. A second position, on the other hand, proposes to retain the shared competence for a limited spectrum of subjects, such as the government of the territory. This would be confirmed in certain areas, where it is not possible to ignore a combination of both state and regional regulatory requirements, the most traditional exercise of competing competences. Even in this perspective, in any case, the residual competence of the Regions on all matters not mentioned, would be accompanied by the provision of a safeguard clause. Of course, the Commission has also examined further aspects of great importance, although perhaps of minor political-media impact: the better regulation of the financial relations between the State and territorial authorities; the definitive affirmation of the mechanism of costs and standard requirements as the main criterion of equalization, thus overcoming both the logic of historical expenditure and that of linear cuts; the abolition of the Provinces and the fixing of a minimum dimensional threshold for the municipalities. I cannot, of course, dwell on each of them now, but I believe that the development of parliamentary work will require a great deal of attention to be paid to these profiles. Of course, the theme of greater delicacy has been the revisiting of the form of government, which has seen different opinions, but not only those, but also important common prerequisites in the diagnosis of problems. The Commission was unanimous in pointing out the need to introduce those elements of rationalization and stabilisation of our form of government which the Constitutions, although deemed necessary (perassi agenda), could not adopt for the presence of internal and international political constraints. These are institutional mechanisms which ensure that the Commission is more stable and effective in decision making, while at the same time promoting the authority of Parliament and the effectiveness of its action. To this end, the two main options discussed in the form of government were the streamlined form of parliamentary government and so-called semi-presidency. The various wishes on which each of them is based are recalled in the context of the report. In the first case, the supporters of rationalised parliamentaryism trust that the political parties will be able to overcome the current crisis and return to perform quickly and correctly a link between the sphere of civil society and that of political institutions, in a constitutional framework to be renewed, but that it retains the necessary elements of flexibility proper to the form of parliamentary government. On the other hand, the second line, that of semi-presidentialists, presupposes that problems can be resolved first and foremost by the creation of institutions with direct popular investiture and the elimination of too many veto powers, also as a prerequisite for the regeneration of the party system. In particular, the members of the Commission who supported the form of semi-presidency government believe that this institutional model succeeds, more and better than the traditional parliamentary model, in ensuring unity, stability, continuity, flexibility and responsibility for the system. In fact, in the semi-presidency system, it is the election of the President, therefore the choice of a person, which gives unity to the political system. Semi-presidency would therefore ensure continuity (the term in office of the Head of State is fixed in the Constitution and cannot be shortened), stability (as the electoral system creates sufficiently cohesive majorities), flexibility (which is achieved by replacing the Prime Minister, to quell political tensions and to respond to the needs expressed in public opinion), and, not to mention, the certain identification of a winner. The semi-presidency model would also have a significant innovation rate, which could be particularly welcome by a public opinion calling for the regeneration of policy. With regard to the limits resulting from the absence of a neutral figure at the summit of the State, often invoked by opponents of a semi-presidency evolution also within the Commission, it has been stressed how they could be overcome with appropriate mechanisms and counterweights, capable of escaping fears of so-called plebiscite drifts, also considering that the inclusion of a large part of the democracies of the old continent in the institutional framework of the European Union represents the most effective antidote against the risks of abuse of power by the majority. In this respect, I would also like to point out that the issue of the neutral and guarantee role of the Head of State is not, in my view, actually anchored to sound historical and legal bases. The President of the Republic, in fact, was not designed by the Italian constituent Fathers as a neutral figure, almost notary, without political powers. In fact, he has some highly political powers: from the power to authorize the presentation in Parliament of the Government's designs, to the power to postpone to Parliament the laws adopted by the Chambers, to the penetrating power to intervene in the resolution of the crises, possibly by deciding to dissolve the Chambers. The question is whether to understand to what extent the successive Presidents have exercised the powers which the fundamental Charter recognises to them. There is no doubt that in the first part of the first Republic the Presidents made a very measured exercise of these powers. During that period, the presence of a strong, structured and pervasive system of parties with respect to institutional dialectic has placed in the background the function of general political orientation that the Constitution undoubtedly assigns to the President of the Republic. But it is no coincidence that, as soon as the parties were affected by the wind of change and, finally, were overwhelmed by the storm of anti-politics, the role of the President has returned to its full expansion, making clear to all the intrinsically political nature of its function. From the other point of view, supporters of the streamlined form of parliamentary government move from an analysis only partially coinciding with the one just expressed. They note that at institutional level there is no phenomenon of endemic weakness from the Commission, but rather of overall imbalance and confusion in the relations between the Executive and the Legislative. The lack of effective decision-making capacity of the system would, in short, largely result from other factors: politically, from conflicts within majorities and above all, at the implementation level, from the characteristics assumed by the administrative dimension, which depend not on the form of government but on the weakness of the political command and on the multiplication of the places of influence of particular or corporate interests; these aspects, on which the processes of effective reform of the public administration appear decisive. The Parliamentary Government would also have the advantage of ensuring the homogeneity of general direction between executive and legislative powers within a balanced and flexible system, able to function in the presence of different political contexts and to adapt to circumstances without exasperating the reasons for tension. The basic assumption is that the elections lead to a parliament expressing a majority corresponding to the prevailing opinion in the electorate, which in turn expresses a government on the basis of coherent and explicit policy guidelines. From this point of view, the supporters of this model underline the importance of an electoral system that counters representativeness with the need to facilitate convergence and avoid excessive party fragmentation. The possible changes of government during the legislature respond to the formation of new addresses of the majority or to the formation of a different explicit majority, while in the absence of such conditions the early dissolution of the Chamber (to be configured, according to the supporters of this model, as a dual prerogative, which requires, that is, the participation of both the President of the Republic and the President of the Council) would allow to resolve the crisis with the recourse to the electorate. The proper functioning of the system and the balance between the reasons for conflict and the reasons for unity are, finally, guaranteed by the figure of a President of the Republic with powers of control, coordination and influence, legitimized by his super partes position, which would also allow him to work a link with the other powers proper guarantee (both the judicial power and the constitutional justice bodies), respecting the constitutional balance and the mutual independence of the powers. Of course, Parliament's rationalised perspective, as the comparative experience shows, may also be able to meet the needs of stability of governments and coherence of policy guidelines. This, however, provided that effective rationalization factors are introduced in relation to the pure parliamentary model. Which ones? The reserve to the Chamber alone of the task of giving and withdrawing confidence to the Government, with the bond of the constructive motion of distrust, approved by an absolute majority; the strengthening of the trust bond with Parliament, explicitly conferring to the Government appropriate powers in the legislative process that guarantee it certain times for the parliamentary deliberations relevant to the implementation of the program; the strengthening of the position of primacy held by the President of the Council in the context of the Government; the discipline of the dissolution of the Chamber according to lines of clarity and responsibility. The Commission's work has not limited itself to deepening these two main forms of government in Europe. In its efforts to exalt elements of shared analysis and proposal and to arrive, as far as possible, at a synthesis, the Commission has also examined a third hypothesis, aimed at combining the organizational bodies of social roots of politics with the needs of efficiency and stability, while at the same time preserving the role of guarantee and referee of the President of the Republic and restoring to Parliament lost functions and responsibilities. This is the proposal that we could define as the Prime Minister's parliamentary form of government, aimed at bringing out not only a clear parliamentary majority but also an indication of the President of the Council, so as to incorporate the Premier's choice in the choice of majority. This option aims to combine the advantages of the semi-presidency model with those proper to a parliamentary regime, through a union between constitutional mechanisms and electoral rules so as to promote the affirmation on the continent of that model "Westminster" that Italy has been pursuing for more than twenty years. It would allow the form of parliamentary government to stabilize, the electoral body to really choose not only who will represent him in Parliament but also who will function as a government, and a Government so strongly legitimized to actually lead the institutional processes and thus fulfil its own function. In this model, to an electoral law from which emerges the clear indication of the party or the winning coalition and the leader who will lead the Government, are associated effective mechanisms of stabilization and rationalization of the parliamentary government that concern both the genetic phase of the Government (through the strengthening of the Premier at the time of the appointment of the Ministers and the obtaining of confidence), and the activity of the Government during his mandate (with the strengthening of the powers of the Government in Parliament, for example with respect to the formation of the agenda), and the phase of political crises (with mechanisms of constructive distrust and request for early recourse to the ballot boxes, which represent the best antidotes against the degenerations of parliamentaryism and instability). Thus configured, the form of parliamentary government of the Prime Minister represents a variant of the semi-presidency model, with respect to which it retains the function of guarantee and interpreter of the emergencies proper of the President of the Republic. The analogy between semi-presidency and the Prime Minister's form of government is confirmed by the fact that the electoral system that would best adapt to this model is the one that provides, after the first round, a ballot between the first two parties or between the first two coalitions, each of which would indicate its own candidate for the post of Prime Minister, which would then obtain direct legitimacy from the electoral consultation, in fact. Complementary to the considerations on the revision of the form of government are the indications contained in the report on the revitalization of the instruments of direct democracy. The prospect of rationalization and stabilisation of the system, with a strengthening of the role of the Government and Parliament, also implies a strengthening of the tools available to citizens to interact and correct the choices made by the representative institutions. The strengthening of the circuits of representative democracy must also be accompanied by the strengthening of mechanisms for the direct participation of citizens. As far as the electoral law is concerned, the Commission has addressed this issue exclusively in the perspective of the new form of government and in the awareness of the very close interaction between them. The legislative intervention to the current Constitution, indispensable to ensure the country's democratic viability - that is, the existence of an electoral law that is not subject to defects of constitutionality by which to hold the elections in case this becomes necessary - was not part of the Commission's study tasks. Personally, I am well aware that there is still an urgent need to correct the current electoral law, in order to ensure full institutional functionality in the event that the current legislature should stop in advance. However, we must be aware that this intervention cannot represent a stable and effective solution: only an electoral reform linked to a more comprehensive revision of the form of government can guarantee the stability and the institutional effectiveness that the country needs. In the last twenty years, the whole weight of the reform of the institutional political system has been actually placed on the electoral law for the Chambers. This is a burden which the electoral system alone could not and cannot bear, even more so in the presence of a serious crisis of the political system and its strong fragmentation, with three almost equivalent lines. If we add the anomaly of an equal bicameralism with two Chambers which, moreover, present a different active and passive electorate, we can well understand how, in the current Constitution, it is illusory to entrust to the electoral law alone the task of ensuring the governability and avoid the risk that the recourse to governments of broad understanding becomes an obligatory option. This risk - it is good that we all have it - can only be avoided through a constitutional revision that at one time reformulates the form of government and bicameralism. The choice of the electoral system is closely linked to that of the form of government. Thus, while in the semi-presidentialist perspective the electoral system most suitable is certainly the double turn of college, with a strict threshold for access to the second round, the rationalised parliamentary form is compatible with different electoral systems, from the German model to the Spanish one, to those based on the majority one-year college. Strictly consistent with the third hypothesis of form of government - the parliamentary one of the Prime Minister - was considered an electoral system of a proportional nature with a very selective barrier clause and with a majority prize attributed to the first party or coalition, provided that it exceeded a threshold of 40% or 50% of the seats and, if not, with the recourse to balloting between the first two parties or coalitions. It is a system through which voters choose directly and simultaneously the majority and its candidate for the post of Prime Minister. In any case, this option would require the overcoming of equal bicameralism and the strong rationalization of the form of parliamentary government. As a general rule, the Commission has agreed on the need to overcome the co-opting system provided for in the current electoral law and to return to citizens the possibility of choosing their representatives. In this respect, the various possibilities have been examined: firstly, the uninomial college; secondly, the plurinomial college, in which a very large number of parliamentarians are elected to enable them to know in advance the qualities and characteristics of the candidates; thirdly, the preference vote (including gender voting) in more or less broad districts. The Commission also considered that the choice of electoral law should be removed from the discretion of occasional majorities, by establishing certain principles in the Constitution or by providing that it may be approved by organic law. The Commission has also expressed a unanimous negative assessment of the functioning of the Italian vote abroad, proposing the abolition of the foreign constituency, but guaranteeing the exercise of the right to vote of Italian citizens residing abroad by means of appropriate instruments to ensure the freedom and secrecy of the vote (and possibly providing, if the Senate was elected directly, a representation within its communities of Italian residents abroad). I shall start with the conclusions, Mr President. I would like to point out that in the near future Parliament's work on institutional reforms will benefit, as well as from the recommendations of the Commission of experts presented here, from the results of the public consultation on reforms launched on 8 July and concluded on 8 October. It has had a very high level of participation by citizens, making it the most successful public consultation among those held so far in Italy and Europe. As soon as the work on statistical verification and processing is completed, the results will be included in a report to be published online and delivered to the Presidency of the Council and the Presidencies of the two Chambers. At this point Parliament will have at its disposal instruments, which are only - I would like to repeat - instruments to enable it to make its sovereign choices. In conclusion, I can only reiterate once again that it is only with an adequate revision of Part II of our Constitution that we can recover the conditions necessary to restore credibility and authority to the political body, thus inaugurating a new season in which the greater stability and overall efficiency of the public authority structure can enable us to successfully face the new challenges we face and to engage in a lasting way the signs of recovery of the economy that, very weak, are emerging on the horizon. Of course, it is now up to Parliament and politics to take the basic decisions. What I think is certain is that it would be extremely serious yet another failure: we cannot afford it. A failure on the reforms would most likely result in the repetition of the situation of uncertainty and instability that characterized the beginning of the current legislature, and would hinder the removal of those anomalies and forced cohabitations between different and distant political forces that today prevent our country from becoming a normal democracy of alternation. Thank you. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u40	I thank the Minister for constitutional reforms for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u41	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 813-B, which was first approved by the Senate and the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. I would also remind you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, in the second resolution, the draft Constitutional Law is approved if in the final vote it obtains the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u44	Mr Quegliariello, Minister for Constitutional Reforms. Mr President, I would just like to inform the House of what I have already said in the short term to you, namely my apologies for not being able to attend the debate on the occasion of an important - indeed very important - Council of Ministers, which began at 5 p.m. Of course, it will be my duty to read the report of the debate, and to be here tomorrow for any replies. Thank you, Mr President, and I apologise again to you and your colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you for your communication, Minister. The rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u45	Mr President, I would just like to remind my fellow Members that this text, which comes from the House's consistent reading, has been written, analysed, thoroughly discussed and evaluated by the Senate, first in the Commission and then in the House, and approved by the House with a very large majority. I only feel, at this point, obliged to recommend to the House its approval and, of course, I hope that this vote will take place with a two-thirds majority to hand it over to the House for final reading.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u46	I address, on behalf of the Assembly, a greeting to a representative of the Civil Protection Association of Comacchio, who has made an important contribution in the earthquake-stricken lands of Emilia-Romagna and we thank publicly for the help given to the region affected by the earthquake. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u47	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u48	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this House is about to vote for the second and last time on the draft constitutional law for the establishment of a parliamentary committee for constitutional reforms. This Committee, in accordance with the intentions of the political forces that have already voted on it at first reading, should change the constitutional structure of Italy in the form of State and Government, in order to allow for a better functioning of the institutional machinery and, thus, a good functioning of the State, where so far this has shown serious inefficiencies. With the adoption of this draft law, it would be chosen to make these profound amendments to the Constitution, not by using the procedures provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution, but by following a special procedure, lighter for the limitations on the powers of individual parliamentarians and the reduction of the time for reflection between the first and the second approval of the text possibly produced by the Committee itself. In essence, we would have to make far more profound changes than those imagined by the Constituents, following a simpler and faster procedure: faster. All this is done in accordance with the wishes of the Presidency of the Republic, which, in a more reformatory spirit than as guardian, has recently explicitly indicated the urgent need to modernise the institutional machinery of whose custody it is tasked, claiming that a wise renewal is now possible. The 5 Star Movement and the political and social forces defending this Constitution were charged with a conservative and backward spirit, contrary to any maintenance of the Charter. This does not correspond to truth. The 5 Star Movement has expressed interest and willingness to confront the changes of the Charter that, in compliance with the spirit of the Constitutional Constitution and the constitutional procedures described in Article 138 of the Constitution, would adapt the Charter to the changed Italian social conditions, taking into account the current will to participate citizens in the political life, with the modification of the referendary matter, removing the quorum from the repealing referendums and with the introduction of the propositive referendums, with the obligatory discussion of the laws of popular initiative, with the online publication of the legislative proposals described and commented, in order to collect the considerations of the citizens who would see their activities of every day regulated by those laws and, finally, with the reduction of the number of parliamentarians and the reconsideration of the perfect and equal bicameralism. As we can see, we are not talking about timid intentions, but rather about changes that go in the direction of greater and more effective participation of active citizens interested in public affairs. In the draft law of the Government, which we are now going to approve at second reading, we go in the opposite direction, in the sense of a reduction of the controls on the government by Parliament, in the name of a governability that has become in words the fetish of the Italian political class - at least since the end of the seventies - where by search for governance we would mean the intention to overcome obstacles to the good governance of the country: obstacles - be careful - placed and maintained for the vast majority of cases by the same parties that denounce its existence. The great obstacle to the government of the country is, in fact, constituted precisely by the parties, which in recent years have changed names and aggregations, but have maintained, and indeed intensified, the vocation to occupy every place of power, public and private, with the same pervicacy with which a parasite haunts the body of a large tree... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . . to create new bodies and new structures, such as the Authorities or the companies of capital that are part of the public bodies, to find new space for their members excluded from the elective offices or for their partners. Basically, the institutional mechanisms work badly because the Italian political class of recent decades has not worked to make the State work well, but to infiltrate it in order to support and reproduce itself, as a parasite precisely. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Returning to the Constitution, I like to remember Piero Calamandrei when, in a speech of 1955, he suggested: If you want to go on a pilgrimage to the place where our Constitution was born, go to the mountains where the partisans fell, to the prisons where they were imprisoned, to the fields where they were hanged. Wherever an Italian died to redeem freedom and dignity (...), go there, or young people, with thought, because there our Constitution was born. 18.02 p.m. (Follows Campanella). So I wonder: if one of us, colleagues in the 17th legislature, should make a similar speech in ten years' time, what should it be about? Where would this new Tralignate Constitution be born? In courtrooms? In the tall rooms of public and private holding companies? In party seats or elegant parlors? Certainly not in the call centers, not in the canteens of the factories, neither in the changing rooms of the malls, nor in the squares where the citizens protest to see implemented the promises that the Constituents have made and the political class has denied to the citizens and to all the Italian people. Then, for the considerations I have just made and, again, for the ability that our constitutional system has had to withstand the continuous erosion of the parliamentary powers operated by the governments, but also for the extraordinary blows received by the attack of terrorism and the mafia on the state and the attack of politics on the judiciary, we really have a healthy and robust Constitution, despite the interventions made in recent years that have not done it well. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for an act of courage and genuine institutional responsibility: vote against the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional and Election Reforms and we work together, in the process referred to in Article 138 of the Constitution, with the amendments necessary for the updating of our Charter. And if a part of you, for reasons of political contingency, should decide to vote in any case in favour of the draft law under consideration, I appeal to those of you who have shown greater attention to the demands of the citizens who until 12 October last have come to the streets and have asked not to upset the Constitution: do not let this House, reaching a qualified majority of two thirds of its members, deny the citizens the right to vote in a referendum on this bill and on this way of amending our Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zanettin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u50	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft Constitutional Act for the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Reform returns to the Senate. For over 30 years, we have been talking about constitutional reforms. The first attempt was that of the Bozzi Commission, which dates back even to the eighties of the last century; after decades of vain attempts, perhaps this time, with a little goodwill on the part of everyone and impelled by a very angry public opinion, we can do it, and the instrument of the parliamentary committee that we are going to launch can facilitate and give certain times to the work. Some (I am referring to the 5 Star Movement, which, in protest against this measure, found nothing better than to occupy the roofs of Montecitorio, but I am also thinking of Landini, Zagrebelsky and Rodotà) oppose the changes and believe that our Constitution should not be modified. For them, the Constitution is an untouchable dogma. In an emphatic tone they come to say that it is the most beautiful Constitution in the world. It seems to me a very exaggerated compliment and, however, this beautiful lady, after so many years, certainly urgently needs extraordinary maintenance. In fact, in the 60 years that separate us from his approval, our country has profoundly changed. The social and economic context has changed; the relationship between citizens and institutions has changed; the role of our country has changed within supranational institutions and the credibility of politics has changed - worse, alas. I do not intend to deal with the position of Rodotà and Landini, who have always lived in the most abstract dogmatism and conservatism. On the other hand, I would like to address my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement who have come into Parliament with the desire to split everything and change politics: on the subject of constitutional reforms, ladies and gentlemen of the 5 Star Movement, in my opinion, you fall into a serious contradiction. In fact, you call for greater direct democracy and greater respect for the opinions of the citizens: but why, then, do you obstruct with all this vigour a path of reforms that will perhaps lead - according to our wishes - to the direct election of the Head of State and to semi-presidency? Is not the direct election of the President of the Republic more transparent and democratic than the parliamentaryism in force today? You have come to Parliament denouncing the waste, inefficiencies and corruption of politics, battles, these, which are absolutely acceptable. But then is it possible that you do not realize that these twists are also the result of dated institutional rules, daughters of the logic of the immediate post-war period, in which each of the two sides was wary of the other and were therefore provided for weights and counterweights such as to limit the power of whoever had won the elections? Indecisionism, instability, consociativism and clientelism, against which, in words declared to beat you, are clearly the result of a system that has deprived the political class of responsibility, in the face of a real power of veto assigned to trade unions, magistrates and lobbyists. It is possible that we do not realize that a Constitutional Court like the Italian one, which declares unconstitutional, in series, the cut of the golden pensions and the salaries of the public managers, the abolition of the Provinces, Article 19 of the Workers' Statute on representation in the RSU, the incandidability of the Presidents of the Region not virtuous, is an authentic ball at the foot for the relaunch of our Country? We are at the paradox that for our Constitutional Court cutting public spending is unconstitutional, because there is always some right question to be safeguarded. Now, we like it or not, for international investors - I remember, in this regard, the severe judgments expressed last spring by JP Morgan on the Constitutions of the countries of southern Europe - even the National Constitutions must be considered a factor of competitiveness of the country system, and on this level ours, assuming that it is still the most beautiful, is certainly not the most efficient. I have already mentioned in my previous speech, during the first reading of the same measure, that in the ranking of international competitiveness our country is only in 44th place. So, in order to regain some credibility in front of the citizens, what should we do with this reform? We want to reduce the number of parliamentarians; we want to eliminate the perfect bicameralism; we want to abolish the Provinces definitively; we want to get to the direct election of the Head of State; we want to get to a slim state in its structure, less expensive but more efficient in its work. For these reasons, the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms seems useful in facilitating and simplifying the work, giving it a certain time. It is a pleasure to note that this constitutional law will shortly be in place, and we can therefore begin to work on the substance of the reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote in favour of this measure, and then let us get to work. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u51	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u52	Mr President, Minister - which I do not see, however - Mr President-in-Office of the Government, Senators and Senators, today we are debating at second reading in this House, as my colleagues have already mentioned, and deciding - for those who want to do so - on the draft law with which the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms is to be set up. This provision provides, through a revision of the constitutional procedure under Article 138, for a special revision of Part II of the Constitution, excluding Titles IV and VI. Only that the law of delegation provides, however, for exceptions. And here we begin to see the obnoxious, from a legal and constitutional point of view, built and present in this bill. It is expected that the Committee will examine or elaborate, in relation to the draft constitutional law referred to in paragraph 1, also the modifications closely related to other provisions of the Constitution or constitutional law. In practice, we open the way to the modification of other parts of our Constitution, in which we ask - dangerously - a Committee to decide what is closely related to these laws, or to those parts of the Constitution. Perhaps it is not the place, or the time to highlight the fragility, from the point of view of constitutional law, of this special derogation procedure chosen and built essentially on the precedents of constitutional laws 24 January 1997, Nos 1 and 6 August 1993, No 1. The thesis that they find on these anchors are, as well as politically, also technically incorrect. It suffices to observe how improperly the concept of derogation is used, which presupposes the competition of a lex specialis with a lex generalis, which is realized, however, as knows who is concerned with constitutional matter, only when the first replaces the second from the point of view of the recipients, or from the point of view of the preceptive content. It is easy to understand that what is being achieved does not satisfy either of the two profiles. In this I am helped by the lucid analysis made by the professor emeritus of constitutional law, Professor Alessandro Pace, who points out that it is certainly not from the point of view of the recipients, because Article 138 of the Constitution is a rule on the production of laws, which is addressed - therefore - only and exclusively to Parliament and in the constitutional session; but it is not even from the point of view of the preceptive content, because - we are always reminded by Professor Alessandro Pace - it is true that while Article 138, as a rule on production, is applicable in all the hypotheses in which the revision is constitutionally permitted, the decree-law that we are going to deal with now would only apply to the revision of Part II of the Constitution, excluding, however, Titles IV and VI, as it might seem at first sight. This is due to the simple consideration that, if an alternative to Article 138 is reopened in the draft law No 813, it is precisely because Article 138 would not have allowed it, neither for the objectives pursued (i.e. a constitutional revision surreptitiously total, even if carried out with a coordinated plurality of constitutional laws), nor for the procedure other than the ordinary and bicameral one. Already the exception that I submitted to your examination and we have analyzed together paragraph 2 of Article 2 makes clear the dangerous precedent that is being introduced. Nor can it be used as justification for this constitutional rift as a fanciful customary basis. To want to simplify, and to keep quiet, it is enough to remember how the laws invoked in support of the thesis, having remained a purely internal fact in the Chambers, are irrelevant to constitutional law. These clear constraints on the legal and institutional architecture, which have even now come to involve the process of revising the Constitutional Charter, are nothing more than the ultimate proof of how the principle of legality (Zanettin, I explain to you why we are opposed to this procedure that you have put in place) has progressively weakened, crumbled, on the one hand, by the mechanism through which laws are created, the result of the decree of urgency rather than the prerogatives of Parliament and, on the other hand, by the lack of the formal sense of equality of all citizens before the law, by means of measures taken to defend pressure groups, or - more tragically - by the need of one. This betrayal of the principle of "one" is worth one, so dear to democracy. It is on this crisis of system that the perception of the law as an unjust imposition is triggered in our people, therefore not to be respected. Legality, I remind everyone, even if in an empty Chamber, is a condition of political freedom and is directly linked to it, because the law oversees all our activities. Yet, today, the gap between what is perceived as right and what is legal is growing. It is a consequence of the crisis of the precondition of the principle of freedom, closely connected with that of democracy, that is, with the sharing of legality itself. In order for a law, as well as, consequently, a rule of law, to be perceived as just, citizens must feel it their own, that it is an expression of their will, a will that is formed in that democratic Assembly that should be this Parliament, as the Calamandrei reminds us. The laws of the State are common heritage because they are formed for all and not for the need of few. With less of this condition, as during fascism, the alienity of the law is a symptom of the collapse of the founding pact of being together, of being a community, and only by strengthening the reasons of being together can we hope to pass free, all, through this economic crisis that produces so many deaths, as a war. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The laws live and live a community as they are fed by sharing: freedom is sharing of legality. And the rights of freedom exist because they are protected in the Constitution, whose review mechanisms, colleagues, are to protect the very existence of the democratically constituted society. I wanted to remind the Minister that I hope he will read these words. This is the legacy that we must protect from the millions of victims of the last world conflicts, as well as the awareness that freedom without equity is an empty envelope, as Pertini reminded us. These fragile mechanisms, like all precious things, are limits set so that they cannot be modified by the legislator with only a political parliamentary majority. The danger that is being faced with the change that this unformed majority wants to make to the mechanism provided for in our Charter to Article 138, although exceptional (and indeed precisely for this reason), is to introduce a serious precedent whereby, instead of putting them back to the citizens, as happens in the constituent assemblies, in which they are elected specifically and for a mandate limited in time, the choices are entrusted, as in this bill, to the new sovereign, that is, a committee of elected parliamentarians all without popular choice, without merit and only by party structures. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This Committee is so similar to the Government that history reminds us (for those who still remember it) of 430 B.C. The current constituent power, namely the Republican Parliament, as we recalled in our preliminary ruling presented in the previous resolution, turns out to be elected by constitutionally flawed law, as supported by the President of the Constitutional Court itself. This circumstance cannot be debilitated as a matter of little importance, because it significantly weakens the ethical and political legitimacy of this reformer, which should have led to more caution, if the ultimate aim of the intervention on our Charter was to revive democratic participation and strengthen public ethics, as stated by the essays called by the President of the Republic on 30 March 2013. What democratic participation will we have, therefore, if this very important moment, the revision of the Constitutional Charter, the founding pact of our State, instead of seeing the sovereign people involved in the most direct way possible (as happens with a constituent assembly elected in a proportional basis), is entrusted to new demiurgi? To these sorcerer apprentices the modification of the rules of the game is returned that, precisely because it is not ethically fundamental, as denounced above, leaves wide doubts that this intervention can be done only to bend the right to the most invereconde and servile precepts and in order only to give a legal semblance to their craving for power. Fear, these, that we of the 5 Star Movement believe are to love certainties, even more strengthened by the reading of the indications that the essays: "advisors" of the final report delivered on September 17, have indicated which objectives of the emanating reforms. They provide - I read from the report - that institutional reforms should also serve to promote the strengthening and regeneration of the party system, assuming that a democracy without parties is not conceivable (as Minister Quagliariello said today). From this point of view, they outline the direction of the reforms according to only two indications: the first, which trusts that the parties will adapt more flexibly to future new forms of government; the second, according to which all the problems will be resolved by the creation of institutions with direct popular investiture, eliminating the too many veto powers now put in Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]] Colleagues, what awaits us - to read these wise indications - will be a Republic launched towards a form of presidentialism, in which the role of Parliament will be severely limited. It is the opposite, therefore, of greater participation of the sovereign people in decisions. Beware, for the Bastille you are building will not keep you from the people! If we really want to give back life to democratic institutions born thanks to the blood shed by the Liberation, which this thirty-year-old party has tormented and mortified with the scientific occupation of every area of society, instead we must launch powerful instruments of direct democracy to move towards the citizen, the source and end of these institutions, the weight of the decisions, of its participation, replacing the current delegation in white given to the nominations. It is necessary to break into the legitimate demands of the citizen in politics so that the latter can regain its true value, to the antipodes of what this political class of nominees and his essays wanted, which appears to us a stale re-edition of an old oligarchical order. We have a form of government that does not look enviously at the constitutions of the neighbors, and not only do we not imitate others, but rather we are ourselves an example to someone. As for the name, it is called democracy, since it is administered not for the good of a few people, but for a wider circle (from Pericles's speech to the Athenians). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In the face of the laws, however, all, in private disputes, enjoy equal treatment; and according to the consideration of which one enjoys, since in some field he is distinguished, not so much for his party, but for his merit, he is preferred in public office; nor, on the other hand, poverty, if one is able to do something useful to the city, is of impediment to him for his dark social position. This is the state we want. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u53	Thank you, Senator Molinari, even for the pathos you've been able to transmit to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u54	On behalf of the Assembly, I address a greeting to the second part of the representation of the Civil Protection Association "Trepponti" in Comacchio, which are in our forums. They are civil protection volunteers that I would like to thank, on behalf of the Senate, for the valuable work they have done on the occasion of the tragic earthquake in Emilia Romagna. Thank you from all sides ( [[Applause. The Assembly stands.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u56	Mr President, I had a hope that the first speeches, sincerely, are disappointing: the hope was that by joining this debate on the final passage of the constitutional bill (not decree-law: draft constitutional law) establishing the Parliamentary Committee for Reforms to the information of Minister Quagliariello on the first results that are offered to Parliament and on the fruit of this research work, we could begin to discuss the merit of the possible choices of reform and not just the instruments, because the instruments serve a purpose: these instruments that we give to us serve a purpose. I am not shocked if we do not share the constitutional bill. It is a legitimate position: I do not share it, but I am not shocked. Another thing, however, is to say that this constitutional bill strikes a blow to legality: I remember that it is Parliament that approves it, in two successive readings. What is more, it is said that it is a coup d'état, even a coup d'état. Here it seems to me that we are going out, right outside: we are exasperating a political confrontation that will not help us to judge the choices of merit. Moreover, Mr President, it seems to me that Senator Campanella mentioned a part of the speech that Piero Calamandrei gave to university and middle students in Milan in 1955. As you will know, Piero Calamandrei in the Constituent Assembly supported presidentialism. If they had prevailed its settings today we would be a presidential republic and we would read those sentences, as they are to be read, attributed to a person who defended the Constitution in all its aspects. Of course, if this person had been among us today who knows what he would have told us about the crime he invented about illegal immigration; who knows what he would have told us about the situation in prisons. I don't want to put Piero Calamandrei in the mouth settings that I would have, but I think you could support them with a logic, seeing his positions and his settings. So, I'd rather stick to merit. On the substance, I would also like to say that it is only the fact that the draft Constitutional Law provides, for these measures, that the second resolution may take place with an interval of not 60 days, but in any case more than 45 days. It can be argued that we do not agree, but I would limit the arguments. It is also argued, in that draft Constitutional Law, that any future constitutional reform measure can be resorted to as a confirmation referendum, beyond the numbers with which the Senate and the House will approve it. This seems to me genuinely much more important. Having said that about the instrument, I think it is important to focus on what Mr Quagliariello said in his information: we bind the instruments to the substance, because they are options that give Parliament important and already more definite choices on which we can intervene. The Minister has already presented us with a report that offers solutions on the form of government, on the reform of Parliament, on the electoral law, but also on means of direct participation of citizens, which I believe should be of interest to everyone. How many times have we dealt, President, with the question of how the referendum might be worth! There are proposals to that effect. They are proposals that I believe can be assessed on the rewriting of Title V of Part II of the Constitution. I will not speak on everything, but I would like to focus on the issues of the Government, Parliament and electoral law, with a political consideration that I think is very important and that I address to the responsibility of all, but above all to the responsibility of the majority that supports the Government today. A week ago, the government, in the Senate and Chamber Chamber, obtained an important and significant vote of confidence. It opens - as has been said and we will ensure that this is maintained - a stage of stability to reach at least 2015. So there is a period of stability that must be used to build reforms: this is the commitment we have. We need to build reforms for the country on economic and social issues; we need to build institutional reforms and electoral law, to cancel the "porcellum"; we need to manage the European Semester with a reformist spirit, because Italy will be able to make a contribution in order to make a step forward in the construction of a supranational European democracy, a contribution to those reforms that concern the European Union and that are nothing else, but they have a link of consistency with what we have to do in our country, after so many years when we have discussed reforms that have not been carried out. I personally find myself in the proposal, among those put forward by the Commission appointed by the Government, for a form of government that is that of the Prime Minister elected by the Chamber of Deputies. It seems to me that this is a balance, if you want a high, important and significant compromise, which goes in the direction of innovation that makes the institutions work. I certainly do not regard presidentialism as a coup d'état or coup d'état: it is a democratic response to the needs of democracy. But each of us, beyond personal beliefs - this is what President Letta said about the electoral law, but not only for it - must find the solution that finds the maximum consensus, that finds less harshness in the confrontation with the country and that on this referendum certainly there will be, and that finds then a positive port. We must make reforms that are approved, and not, as has happened at other times, reforms that are not taken home. It seems to me that this is an approach that gives the government a strength, maintains the parliamentary system more consistent with the Constitution (if we were to rewrite the whole of Part II of the Constitution, time would not be enough, and perhaps the instrument we would have given would not be even more suitable), and leaves the role of the President of the Republic essentially identical to the current one. In fact, I think that our country needs a reference that is super partes, to guarantee the Constitution and the life of the institutions. As far as Parliament is concerned, I agree with the reduction in the number of Members (then we will see how many, but which must be reduced). I also agree - but on this I will make a specification - on overcoming the perfect bicameralism. On what, though, must bicameralism remain perfect? I do not say this simply to defend the prerogatives of the Senate, but there is one point that we must have clear: I think that there is no doubt about the changes to the Constitution and any update, it was also a semicolon; about the ratification of international treaties; about electoral laws; about the laws that concern fundamental human rights. On such matters bicameralism can only be perfect. Finally, I think that there is a matter that needs to be examined in depth with regard to the Senate. As I have already said, I agree that it is only one House that has a political relationship and elects the President of the Council, the Prime Minister, indicated by the deployment or by the party that won the elections. But then we must work seriously on what will be the role of the Second Chamber. I would not - I say frankly - want us to make the usual championship: that we move from a perfect bicameralism, identical, to a de facto monocameralism. We do not need this and it is not so in Europe, beyond the differences (there is only one European country, the Republic of Ireland, where the Senate was appointed in a strange way with a sort of corporate designation). I think that the Senate must have a central and priority role in relations with the European Union, with the European institutions, with the central state and with the system of regions and local self-government: this is a fundamental hub, which will become increasingly important in the life of democracy. And I am convinced - this is what the essays say - by the verification of the relapse of public policies, because having a House that becomes attentive to what determines public policies, and therefore can also suggest corrections, together with these relations with the system of European institutions and regions and local self-governments, seems to me an important and convincing fact. What, on the other hand, between the various hypotheses formulated does not convince me - I say it now - are some roads that are indicated for the election of the Senate, so also on its role. Putting aside the US model, which is still different (the Senate is made up of an equal number of senators for each State and has a function like the one that perhaps will have the Senate for the European Union tomorrow), and remaining in Europe, or following the path of the Senate of the Regions, that is, the Bundesrat real (in the Senate there are representatives of the regional governments, who have the weighted vote, because otherwise it does not work) or, as I sincerely prefer, something on which I think we had also reached an agreement in a comparison that had been on these issues in previous legislatures, while remaining the Presidents of the Region, who are legally there, the Senate continues to be elected directly by the citizens at the same time as the election of the Regional Councils. It can be more convincing if the Senate has that configuration: I think it has a greater legitimacy. On the other hand, it seems to me that there was a fair consensus on this point, if I remember correctly, which is why I would try to avoid taking a step forward and a step backwards: where there is consensus, perhaps we should try to consolidate it and strengthen it. If we go in this direction, I also think that then the Senate, which does not elect the Prime Minister, who has those tasks, who is elected directly by the citizens at the time of the election of the Regional Councils, can be elected on a purely proportional basis because it does not need to have important majority curves. The last consideration I make concerns the electoral law for the House. Mr Quagliariello said - and I agree - that bipolarism must be made something serious, not a reason for permanent conflict, and that is the way democracy works in Europe. In order to have a bipolarism, however - from this point of view the Minister has made an important emphasis, which I hope will be assumed by the various members, and in particular by the majority forces - it is necessary that the citizens with their vote contribute to determining a majority of government and can also have in their hands the indication of who, according to the results that will be, the House will elect, because indicated as Prime Minister. So, if this is the way before us (without going into detail now), we have a precise choice, and I say this to all my fellow senators, because I would like electoral laws and institutions to be made not only by the majority, but certainly with even more force I say this to my colleagues who support the Letta Government: it is necessary that either at college level or coalition level, if you choose a proportional system for the law with a barrier threshold on which you then determine the access to the distribution of seats, there is a double-shift element, or as a double-shift college or as a double coalition shift. And beware, if this is the way - and, if we want to make a serious bipolarism, in my opinion, this can only be the way: either double turn of college, or proportional with a significant barrier, and then the determination, if in the first round no one reaches 50% plus a vote, to get the prize in order to be able to govern in a second round - this must be there. If there is no such thing, one thing is stated and one goes in the opposite direction. If there is this, however, beyond the times with which we make the law (and the sooner, the better, so we do not expect to be told, since we know it, that the "porcellum" in addition to perhaps having aspects of unconstitutionality, however it does not work), we must ensure that in November or December we do not adopt a law that goes in the opposite direction - from the point of view of spirit and coherence - to this approach that we together say we want to support and that, as the Minister said, it is the condition for serious bipolarism to work. I think that this is the path we must take. I hope that, in the reflection between the political forces, this aspect can be considered consistently to the full. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u57	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u58	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am a spokesperson, so let me bring today the voice of some illustrious citizens, who express their idea of the method by which these constitutional reforms are to be achieved. Changing the Constitution with accelerated procedures that upset Article 138 - a safety valve designed by the constituent Fathers just to avoid tampering - is a blow to the hand. There is talk of a derogation, but the right word is a violation of the Constitution: until it is amended, Article 138 is a law to be observed. All the more so when we think about the present historical situation: a Parliament of nominees, a Government of broad understanding that voters did not want and that distorts democracy. Finally, the conflict of interest: unchanged, it remains the intentionally uneducated evil of the political system (Barbara Spinelli). ==References====External links== The supporters of this bill tell us that it is a derogation to 138. But that's not how it is. We cannot consider this a derogation for a simple reason: the adoption of constitutional laws that will then be there because of this derogation procedure, have permanent effects on the constitutional system. It is not a derogation: it must be said and reiterated. Even if it were admitted that our legal system could provide for constitutional laws of derogation, this bill could not be qualified as a rule by way of derogation as it determines definitive changes (Alberto Lucarelli, professor of constitutional law at the University Federico II in Naples). Ours is a rigid Constitution, which as such stands at the top of the order, above all laws, both ordinary and constitutional. The Special Constitutional Review Procedure has the function of adapting the Constitution to the changed historical, social and political needs. It is therefore exercise of constituted power, not constituent. Speaking, with reference to the present moment, of 'constitutive path' is the fruit of ignorance, or subtitling subversive meanings. As far as that is concerned, the revision procedure provided for in Article 138 is based on its legal basis in the Constitution, of which it must respect both formal and substantive limits. A constitutional revision law (...) may therefore amend Article 138, but as long as 138 is in force, it must comply with it. In the rigid Constitutions, however, the power of constitutional revision meets a further limit. The amendments must not surreptitiously make the constitutional revision process more flexible. However, the purpose of the draft law approved on Thursday is not to amend Article 138, but to add Article 138 one-off. Which is macroscopically illegitimate. Such a one-off derogation (...) would in fact allow any individual laws amending the form of government, bicameralism and State-Regions relations to be approved in a procedure different from Article 138. It is therefore a derogation, but illegitimate, because it has its effects in the future, surreptitiously modifying the constitutional revision procedure (Alessandro Pace, constitutionalist). ==References====External links== It is good to dwell on this strange idea of an ad hoc constitutional law, which seems to reaffirm the pernicious tendency to exceptionalism in our legislative procedures. It is said that the amendment (...) would be one-off. But this is a pathetic lie since, on the basis of this change, they could more easily and quickly pass important changes in our Constitution, such as those envisaged by the Government and the majority that support it and which regard nothing less the form of government, the parliamentary system, the relationship between State and Regions (...). All this (...) could also have consequences for the first part of the Constitution, which is said not to want to violate, because citizens' rights also depend on the institutions that should guarantee them. If the latter are changed, it is more than likely that there would also be consequences for the former. If you change the form of government and your relationship with Parliament it is very difficult to imagine that the political rights of citizens remain unchanged. And all this would be done on the basis of a derogation from Article 138 of the Constitution, discussed in ways not provided for by the Constitution itself! (Alfonso Gianni, director of the I end with the appeal of Raniero La Valle and Domenico Gallo, who is dedicated to everyone and who could benefit everyone, if listened to, that is the following: Dear Senator, (...) the Constitution is not an issue that can be dealt with as urgently as is the case with financial laws, whose corrections can be imposed by contingent and market situations. The Constitutions are not a pure act of positive law imposed by a legislator: they are born from a historical process.................................................................................................................................... [[Brusio]] This background chat, almost like an underground choir, is wonderful. I was saying: " (..) they are born from a historical process, they are memory and project and, as such, define the identity of a people, of a political community organized in state. Our Constitution brings within itself the memory of 100 years of Italian history, for good and evil; it contemplates the wounds of fascism... I would remind the Members of the Commission of the fact that today there has been talk of negationism. I am not a member of that Commission, but perhaps this relates to what is being asked of us in the letter I am reading to you. I used to say: " (..) it contemplates the wounds of fascism, its repudiation through the struggle of liberation and realizes the guarantees that fascism will no longer be reproduced, through a technique of balance of powers that prevents any form of dictatorship. The Italian Constitution has been forged in that "flameful crucible" represented by the global event constituted by the Second World War and bears the imprint of a universal spirit. Putting hand to the Constitution is never a trivial action, it means putting hand to history, questioning us about our history, the conquests of juridical civilizations tirelessly achieved, about successes, about failures, about the dangers that are on the horizon. The Constitution can be reformed in order to adapt it to the times, but it does not tolerate radical revisions that unleash its installation. The Republican public goods that the Constituents have attributed to the Italian people, concerning the guarantee of fundamental rights and the quality of democracy, constitute an irrecusable heritage, which cannot and must not be dismantled. Precisely in order to protect the unwillingness of this heritage, the Constitution provided for a "rigid" revision procedure, incardinated in the tracks of Article 138, with the limit of the immodifiability of the republican form and the supreme constitutional principles. Among the latter, as pointed out by authoritative doctrine, is the principle of safeguarding constitutional rigidity, which is the most supreme of all. In fact, if the rigidity of the Constitution were affected, all its principles and values would be exposed to the moods of contingent political majorities and would lose their effectiveness. There have been a lot of moods here in six months, so let's pay some attention. I continue: "The fact that in order to start a process of constitutional revision (...) is expected to affect the rigidity of the Constitution, lets the intention (or at least the possibility) that the reform process exorbitates from the substantive limits that the Charter itself sets at its revision (...). For these reasons we ask you to vote against this bill, because it integrates a real constitutional illegality: we are convinced that loyalty to the Constitution must prevail over party discipline and any other consideration of political opportunity and we ask you to claim the normal procedure of Article 138 for the necessary constitutional changes. The following will be me saying it, less authoritative than the citizens whose quotes I have just read. I wonder: if so many authoritative subjects have fought in these months in defense, protection of Article 138, why do you want to change it in some way by distorting it? I understand that everyone is wrong and that he is often wrong when writing drafts of the law and when approving the laws thinking of doing the right thing, and then maybe realizing, at the time when the law is implemented, that something had not been anticipated and therefore the law has gone perhaps in a different direction than the one that had been thought to give it. I understand the good faith, but in this case everyone asks us, a priori, not to change Article 138. Wrong is fine, but persevering someone said it's diabolical. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]] At least tomorrow we hope that some senators are missing; this is an endorsement to go and do a "giratina". Someone once said: "Don't go to vote, go to the sea!" I think it was Silvio. ROMANI Paolo (PdL). That's what Bettino Craxi said! BENCINI (M5S). This is what the great Bettino said, it is true, Senator Paolo Romani is right: I apologized for putting words in the mouth of a person who had said them. Someone, however, made this invitation to go to the sea. I'm not sending you to the sea tomorrow, because I don't think the season is right. Go wherever you want, go to shops and go shopping, so the GDP increases. [[Laughter and applause from the M5S Group]] ). In fact, if tomorrow we do not have those two thirds of the House that we need to vote yes, but a little less, at least this decision we will put it back in the hands of the citizens, the population and we will have saved goat and cabbage, tomorrow we will have taken our course but at least we will also ask the citizens what they want to do. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u59	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u60	Mr President, for several months now, since we met in this House before the summer, we have had the opportunity to express at the beginning all our doubts and then, little by little, our disagreement, which has become stronger and stronger, with respect to the method and merit of how the path of institutional reform was taking shape. We have also expressed our perplexity as to how the aim shared by the majority of political forces in Parliament of the need for an update of the Charter which did not upset its fundamental principles was to be turned to a different end: the aim, in our opinion, of making a genuine rewriting, indeed a real reversal of Part II of the Constitution, in fact prelude to a change of the form of State and of the form of government; a twist, from our point of view, which also calls into question Part I of the Charter, the one which contains, as we know, the fundamental principles of our system. We have a strong doubt today that this Part I of the Charter can, in the state in which we are, remain intact, so much so that it seems justified to us that the alarm, which has even been launched by one of the members of your Commission, is that there was a real risk for such a vast rewriting process that the whole of the Constitutional Charter could be overwhelmed, a risk which seems very alive to us. As we have said so many times, we were not convinced of even the particularly limited times that, rather than a logic of efficiency, we seemed to respond to a political need: that of providing a stronger glue to the Government of the broad understandings that, at the time of that debate, had just established itself and that, of course, as we know, still sees in the same majority forces that had opposed each other in the electoral campaign, which had just ended, but above all in the whole twenty years that we have behind us in the history of this country. The fact, moreover, that the issue of constitutional reforms was immediately intertwined with the great issue of justice reform - as a large part of the government majority very sensitive to this issue, in particular for the personal affairs of its leader - did not seem too surprising to us. We also remember very well that the offensive was painstakingly circumscribed in order not to compromise the political legitimacy of the entire path. However, those pressures do not seem to us to be particularly weakened, at least according to the latest statements by some authoritative member of the Commission of Wise Men. Beyond that, we must also add that the reading of the report which the Commission dismissed confirms all the doubts we had about the path of reform. We certainly do not question the broad doctrine given in the report; what seems to us to be of dubious political usefulness is precisely the content of the draft, where - by the admission of the same extenders - on some issues has been reached a broad sharing on the hypotheses of reform, even with variations, while on other aspects even alternative hypotheses have been outlined. That is why we believe that the question raised by Professor Urbinati, on the premise of his speech, which I imagine colleagues have read: why is it proposed to carry out this reform? From what need is it moved and to get what? We think that this is the basic question, and we have not frankly understood it, or, if we have understood it correctly, we would like to say what we think. In any case, it seems to us that this question arises in all its urgency, especially by reading the proposals on the various forms of government and state which are proposed, moreover, in some cases with reasons, honestly, very questionable. We shall gorge ourselves to say this and we shall repeat it again tonight: we are not perched in a defense beyond the existing, that is, we are not banally - as someone likes to say - conservatives of the existing. Far from it. We are convinced that proper maintenance that, for example, puts hand to perfect bicameralism is a thing to do. We are also convinced that we must reconsider Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which seems to have presented many problematic aspects; we have been among the very few to have said it even in recent years, when instead Title V was changed to very large majorities, in the usual unanimousism that unfortunately has marked Italian politics at least on some fundamental passages during these years. We are also in favour of all those instruments that can promote democratic participation and popular initiative. That's all I need! I can say - with a little vanity - that we probably said so even before someone else. We therefore think that all these are right, possible and desirable. However, we do not think that in order to achieve this objective, Article 138 of the Constitution must be tampered with, which, in our opinion, is still a veritable safety valve of the 1948 Charter building. If you'll allow me the metaphor, it's like someone else is proposing to paint the walls of the house, but without knocking on the door and getting opened, but breaking the lock. This approach does not convince us. If that is the case, if that is the case, then we really are conservative, but we are conservative towards the best part - in our view - of the existing. Therefore, we are not convinced, as the draft also says, that in order to achieve unity, stability, continuity and responsibility of the political system, the only institutional model is semi-presidency, as stated in the report and as we have heard from the Minister's words this evening. We are not convinced because, in our opinion, there is a fundamental element that, as is recognised here and there in the draft, is now necessary, fundamental, indispensable in order to restore legitimacy and credibility to the institutions, namely transparency and autonomy from the great powers, the sobriety of politics and democratic participation. I am referring to everything for which, in short, (here too, it is worth recalling the report of the wise men) a new political custom appears decisive - if we can use this expression - than simply some specific regulatory measure, all the more so when it comes to measures that can alter the balance between the powers of the State that have been so laboriously designed by the constituent Fathers. Let us remember well what a great level of compromise (in the best sense of this term) came the constituent Assembly, which gave voice, as we know, to the best and most extraordinary political cultures of this country. I am sorry that in this House, in the speeches of the Minister and the majority, there is no trace of this, but all this was loudly requested by a beautiful demonstration held last Saturday, which did not by chance indicate in the Republican Constitution and the rights in this and by this guaranteed the highway to follow. We believe that the citizens who have expressed themselves in defence of the Constitution have clearly indicated that the guarantee of the rights and freedom of all and of all still lies between the lines of the 1948 Constitution, that the principle of separation and balance between the powers of the State is well regulated there and that the reforms and adjustments obviously necessary can be made with the deep respect of the existing guarantee procedures. Then, frankly, pretending that this demonstration never existed, having removed it so easily from the political debate, even from the point of view of the majority seems to us a very serious political error, or at least a very serious underestimation. I say this also because - let me tell you this - we, together with that demonstration, would not want constitutional reforms to become the shortcut for a political system that does not choose to respond to its own crisis of legitimacy with more transparency, democracy and participation, but vice versa with a sort of centralization of powers and with the use of a real myth demiurgical, that of the great decision-maker, able to get rid of the times and counterweights that instead a democratic system legitimately requires. We shall fight against this approach, Mr President. We believe that the Constitution and its principles are still the main way forward. In any case, Mr President, we think that any change to the form of State and Government that Parliament decides to make will only be subject to the scrutiny of the citizens, without hiding behind the majorities required by the rules on the revision procedure. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-GAP and Senator Nugnes Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear from the debate I have listened to very carefully: that this anomalous majority only agrees with one thing, namely the amendment of the Constitution; but the content of the amendments does not agree at all. In fact, when colleagues from the PD intervene, we hear a speech, while when those from the PdL intervene we hear incredible things. We talk about amending the Constitution and we start by attacking the Constitutional Court, which is the guarantor of all citizens, the guarantor that in our country no majority can overpower the minority. Is this how we intend to amend the Constitution? By attacking the Constitutional Court? Or, even worse, by being dictated the changes of our Constitutional Charter by environments such as those of JP Morgan, that should stand before a court to answer for the damages caused to millions of citizens and that allow themselves, instead, to interfere with the Constitutions and freedoms of countries like Italy? We wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how it is possible to speak of presidentialism and to confuse direct democracy and the participation of citizens with a plebiscitarism and neo-populism that are the direct participation of citizens in the election of the President of the Republic, which, among other things, was rejected by the citizens themselves in the referendum of 2006. How can these be dealt with for serious constitutional reforms, sensible and with some logic? The direct election of the President of the Republic is certainly not a guarantee, ladies and gentlemen, of democracy, or of the protection of freedom or efficiency; otherwise, Putin's Russia would be the most democratic country in Europe today, but it does not seem to me that way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I call on you, colleagues, and I urge you to listen to our voice, which is the voice of the citizens, certainly not of everyone, but of 25% of the citizens of this country, who tell you: do not go on this path! But it does not tell you not to go on with the reforms, colleagues: we have not come here to leave things as they are; that is not the goal of the 5 Star Movement. In our programme, we have included reforms, including constitutional reforms, which are very important: mono-cameralism, a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, consultative referendums and quorum zero. We therefore ask ourselves - and if the citizens are asking for this out of here - why we can even think of a constitutional reform without involving representatives of 25% of the citizens of this country, even just to discuss the reforms that we intend to carry out. The Constitution is not a law like any other, colleagues: it is our home, it is the common home of this country. We cannot deal with such an important change in this way and in these terms. We cannot undo the door - as has been said - without knowing then where we want to go and without knowing which demons will face that door, once it is sloppy. Colleagues, to think that the Commission should have a great say in the amendment of the Constitution makes the skin really cling. The Commission is submitted to Parliament as long as the present Constitution is in force, and not the opposite, as we see every day in the parliamentary classrooms. Even though he may never have a say in the amendment of the Constitution. But what does the reform of the Constitution have to do with the government? In what democratic country have you ever seen such a thing? I therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen (in particular, I appeal to those who were present in Parliament even in the last parliamentary term), to reflect on what a President's Government means, given that you had two. We know that, and so do you, ladies and gentlemen, because we see it every day, what a minister who does not respond to his majority means. We see it as an opposition: a minister who comes out of here and goes to report to his handler, the President of the Republic, as if it were a presidential Republic! Is this the reform you want? Is this the power of the citizens that you plan to grant them? Don't you have your own voice in the matter anymore? Think. Please think. Stop while you're in time. Listen to your voice. This - the voice of the 5 Star Movement - is the voice of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u63	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the insistence on constitutional reforms might suggest that the Italian decline is linked to the inadequacy of our Constitution. But those who look intellectually honestly at the current crisis will have to admit that the causes of our fall lie elsewhere: in the spread of organised crime, in poorly designed monetary and tax policies, in participation in cruel wars and contrary to national interests. In short, they are the result of the irresponsibility of the political and economic ruling classes. When we talk about the Constitution, the order of problems should therefore be reversed: not due to the failure to reform the Constitution is due to our decline, but to its failure to implement it. The principles of the Constitutional Charter, if applied, would have stopped the self-destructive spiral we find ourselves in: starting from them, it would still be possible to develop a credible government program and save the country. Unfortunately, however, the direction in which the Italian Parliament seems to be moving is exactly the opposite of what is desirable. What is being prepared is the removal of the substance of democratic guarantees. The program was tracked in a recent study by J.P. Morgan, who identified anti-fascistism and the influence of socialist ideas in the Constitutions of the countries of Southern Europe as the cause of their failure to integrate into the Community context and their economic difficulties. Not content with plundering the wealth of our nation, international finance now wants to empty, not only in fact but also in law, the participation of citizens, transforming Italy into a post-democracy. This project includes the intention to make Italy a semi-presidency Republic or - even - presidential. Many, even motivated by good intentions, think that this will ensure the stability of governments. I call on them to reflect on what is happening in France, where the institutions of the Fifth Republic also have a long-term legitimacy and have shown, in the past, that they work well. In this country, traditional bipolarism risks being overwhelmed by the successes of the extreme right of the National Front. Do you really think that such a risk could not be presented in Italy? Do you really think that a constitutional reform that is opportunistally designed in view of the alleged advantages of the moment would not make the problems that originally had to be solved more serious in the long term? Of course, even the Italian Constitution, like all human things, can be modified. Personally, I still hope that a future European Constitution will integrate the bright principles of 1947 with the new issues that have emerged in the meantime, such as the right of citizenship, issues relating to the network, common goods. However, I am aware that this is not an issue on the agenda. It will be up to the next generations to realize this dream. Our task today is to prevent the great heritage of civilization represented by the Italian Constitution from being distorted. I believe that giving up on this ground would mean letting the camp free to those forces that are dragging Italy and Europe as a whole into the abyss. [[Applause from the Mixed-GAP and Mixed-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u65	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u66	Mr President, the Constitution of the Italian Republic is the fundamental law of the Italian State, so it is the summit in the hierarchy of sources of law and it is the foundation of our Republic. The character of our Constitution is rigid, unlike the outdated Albertine Statute, which was characterized by its flexible nature, i.e. that it is derogable and can be integrated by ordinary legislative acts, and which showed all its weakness precisely because of the lack of rigidity. Then, with the arrival of the fascist authoritarian regime, the State was diverted to a regime in which the forms of public freedom so far guaranteed were turned upside down. Oppositions were blocked or eliminated. The Chamber of Deputies was abolished and replaced by the Chamber of Charms and Corporations. Rights such as that of assembly and freedom of the press were bent. As you know, the rigid nature of the Constitutional Charter represents, together with the independence of the guarantee bodies - President of the Republic and Constitutional Court - the most robust garrison to prevent the Constitution from becoming an instrument of the policy of the winning coalition of the political elections. The Constitution belongs to all citizens and should therefore be removed from the availability of the majority, rather it must operate essentially as a system of limits to the majority. The system of constitutional revision (Article 138 of the Constitution) designed by the constituent Fathers had behind it an elective Assembly with an electoral system quite different from the current one, dear colleagues, so the constitutional revision rules were thought of according to a very different representativeness than the one we find today in the two Chambers. Well, that's different. The transition to the current majority system for the election of the two chambers has led to a crisis of our constitutional rigidity. The procedural worsening provided for in Article 138 of our Charter is even inadequate to guarantee the superiority of the Constitution over ordinary law, and therefore precisely the concept of primacy of our Charter. Today, the absolute majority of the members of the two Chambers is also reached by coalitions that do not represent the majority of the electoral corps. Everything's fake. The majority was achieved through a prize received by a coalition that does not exist in Parliament today. Therefore, the voters were asked to vote on that coalition and today it legislates without having the same coalition in which the electoral corps had trusted and with which the Democratic Party obtained the majority. CUOMO (PD). The Constitution says so! PUGLIA (M5S). Of course, if we only stop to reason on this, we should have a sense of shame to think about changing our Constitution, but let alone! Shame is honor in some situations when you try it. But there is more, something even more serious, namely: to amend the Constitution there are appointed party secretariats and not the people. This is serious! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Blocked lists and "porcellum": we are all convinced that the "porcellum" is not good, yet, thanks to it, we want to modify the cornerstones of our Constitutional Charter. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The dirt, however, does not stop here (which would already be overabundant), but it widens, because we want to derogate from the rules that govern the constitutional revision with accelerated procedures that upset the rigidity of the Constitution, and therefore Article 138, which - let us remember - is the security clasp of our democracy thought by the constituent Fathers precisely to avoid tampering. Someone, with enough, says that this is a simple derogation. This is not a derogation: this is a violation of the Constitution! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In short, Article 138, with the current discipline, induces in temptation the majority to act alone the modifications of the Constitution, which the Constituent had entrusted to a resolution based on a broader consensus, in the context of a truly proportional system, in the rules and results. It's all fake! I repeat, it's all fake. On the contrary, there would be a need to remove possible constitutional changes from the exclusive availability of mere political majorities pro tempore. Here we are allowing relative majorities of voters who have become members of this "poor" electoral law - let me say this - absolute majorities of Members and Senators the modification by way of derogation, on the contrary. in violation of our constitution. Here I invoke the speech of the President of the Republic. This intervention, however, is not there. You've chosen the right guarantor, huh! You've chosen it well! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Berlusconi, always friend of the Italian fake left and destroyer of the right, always pardoned and supported with a thousand rivoli and subterfuge regulations, will be pardoned by you once again, by your direct hand or by that of your guarantor, chosen with devilish wit and becero ingenuity. There, on the altar of the Inciucio, the PD sealed in a marriage, already known by us, his dedication to the PdL. Fake right and fake left by boyfriends married before an Italy torn by mortar shots that the media have launched and continue to launch against our intelligence! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group and Senators Di Biagio and Panizza.]] CUOMO (PD). Bravo! CARDINALI (PD). Bravo! PUGLIA (M5S). Bravo! Bravo! This is your conscience. Show a world that doesn't exist, or rather a world that is artificially shown, as in a film set. It's the same: everything seems true, but everything is agreed, a script already written. Pretense, artifice, deception. It's all fake. Here, for example, Schifani commands the media and transforms reality by making Senator Crimes believe that he was posting messages on Facebook while he was in Junta. False, fake, obviously fake. But everything is fake. Can you do that? Can you put our Constitution under your feet? CARDINALI (PD). It was torn! PUGLIA (M5S). Of course you can. Anything you can, anything you are allowed. The President of the Republic defends you; newspapers, magazines and TVs are available with a touch of wand and a snap of fingers. Let there be no means of information to say that we do not want constitutional changes, because that is not the point. The amendments must be made in the ordinary course outlined in Article 138 of the Constitution. We are well aware of the rules and we are well aware of the need for constitutional reform. When you say rigidity of the Constitution, you do not want to affirm the absolute immutability of it. Frangar, don't flectar: I break but I don't bow. If it were a motto for me, albeit a small one, it would give me strength, but it is not a fair motto in relation to our Constitution and our thinking of a legal order. Article 138, as it stands, is based on a criterion of reasonableness and already responds to the need that it must be rigid, but not immutable; the formula already meets the two requirements of rigidity and non-immutability. So leave Article 138 alone. For the sake of the people, get your hands off our future! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Ironic applause from Senators Cuomo and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u67	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I have to say the truth: I cannot hide my disappointment at the fact that a debate of extraordinary importance such as this should take place in a semi-empty Chamber, as if all the games were already done, as if this debate were of no use, as if the decisions, the real and important ones, were taking place outside the walls of this building. This comes to mind by observing all these empty scrawls. In any case, we certainly do not avoid this debate. If anyone really wants to change this country, that someone is the 5 Star Movement. Yet we would not have dared to take this dangerous shortcut, either. [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] wanted by PD and PdL to modify very important parts of the Constitution; a shortcut that could put at risk the founding rules of the democratic life of our country. You've set in motion a car that we don't know, maybe you don't even know, where it can stop. Or perhaps we know that and you know it very well: it will stop at the creation of a new state that intends to further protect the parties, the politicians and the government, today at the historic minima of popular consensus, once again to the detriment of the interests of 60 million Italian citizens. Any reform of the Constitution should take place through a shared path involving Parliament and its citizens. On the other hand, the constitutional bill No 813 constitutes an extraordinary and derogating procedure of the constitutional text, both from the procedural point of view and from that of the bodies that are to amend the Constitution. It is indicative that in first deliberation this bill never exceeded the quorum of two thirds, neither the Senate nor the House. The Committee, composed of twenty and twenty senators, will have the task of examining the constitutional reforms of Titles I, II, III and V of Part II of the Constitution and electoral reforms, as well as changes to other closely related constitutional provisions. With this bill, therefore, continues the irrefutable, innate passion of this majority for the special Commissions. We believe that the adoption of constitutional revision laws cannot fail to follow the procedure laid down in Article 138 of the Constitution. The body empowered to reform the Constitution is in fact the Parliament and the citizens by virtue of the referendum confirmation. It is absurd to bind constitutional changes to institutionally derogatory procedures compared to those already envisaged, and it appears ineffective to superimpose roles and functions of new bodies compared to those already existing and operating. This constitutional bill is therefore incomprehensible, ineffective and unreasonable. It is outside the Constitution, as well as rational sense. The procedure for examining the draft Constitutional Review Law breaks down that essential core of fundamental principles for the protection of which the Constitution is set. We are not convinced by the squeeze of parliamentary work, by the limits of amendment to Members of Parliament, by the reduction of the prerogatives of individual Members and senators, by the dangerous possibility of extending the revision to other articles of the Constitution, by the lack of attention to the Committee's work, by the Commission's absolute lack of transparency of so-called wise men. They are all elements of irrationality that put the text under consideration in logical and systematic conflict with the system of constitutional guarantees. A fundamental principle of our legal system is the rigidity of the Constitution and a law which derogates from Article 138 is therefore illegal. To approve this bill means to undermine the supreme principle of the rigidity of the Constitution and to transform our Charter into a flexible Constitution. Making the constitutional guarantees flexible means undermining the form and substance of the rights enshrined in our Constitution. Our Constitution is rigid and the supreme principle of constitutional rigidity derives from all other principles, including fundamental ones. One question therefore arises: is ours still a parliamentary republic? If it still is, explain why you intend to entrust the amendment of the Constitution to a Committee and not to Parliament. This Committee will have the power to discuss and propose amendments to the Constitution. So what is Parliament going to do about it? Parliament is relegated only to the adoption of the proposed amendments and can only vote on them. But this is how Parliament's central role is exonerated for the umpteenth time. Our Constitution speaks for itself: the Italian Republic is a parliamentary Republic, but with this bill it is further demonstrated that you are trying all possible ways to avoid debates in this House, true and unique seat of our democracy. So we wonder why? Why do you want to avoid the debate in this House at all costs? Why are you in such a hurry to change the basic rules of our state? Why, even though you know very well that the reform of the Constitution is not the priority of Italy and the Italians at the moment, do you stubbornly want to continue on this path? The problems that require an immediate solution are many others: the work that is not there, and if there is precarious; the health care that is suffering yet another cut by the government; the unemployment that has exceeded 40%; the school that literally falls apart; the environment raped by cement; the territory at risk hydrogeological; the state of society fugitive. There is a doubt: because the firm opposition of most Italians and Italians is constantly ignored; the more than 400,000 signatures collected in a few days by "Il Fatto Quotidiano" are ignored, the protest signatures collected in rivers at the banquets of the 5 Star Movement; what is your goal? Why do you not want to inform the public properly and correctly of these changes to the Constitution? What do you have to hide? We ask ourselves: if the opinions of 35 wise men, 20 Members and 20 senators are enough to change the Constitution - the most beautiful in the world - what are the other 960 Members for? What are we doing here? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We of the 5 Star Movement are here to guarantee the citizens, to inform them correctly and completely. We will not allow you to distort the founding rules of a Constitution seized by majority voting. We will not allow it without shouting to the citizens and to Italy all that politics, this policy, is betraying the spirit of the Constitution. We will therefore raise a cry that is a watchword for us against this ruin of the Constitutional Charter: resist, resist, resist. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u69	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution may depend on the luck or misfortune of a people. Herodotus said it in his stories 400 years before Christ, and exalted the Constitution of Sparta, lasting 400 years, factor of power and wealth of the Spartans. Today, what the Letta Government wants to do, in agreement with the condemned ex-premier, is an unconstitutional reform because it tends to delete, after just 65 years, our Constitution, starting with Article 138 that wants to change by violating the Constitution, to immediately turn everything else. However, Article 138 is one of the pillars of the Charter, which can never be waived, but only modified, not as the broad understandings want, but according to the procedure of Article 138 itself, with respect for the interval of at least three months between one approval and the other of each Chamber. This interval should also be one year or two years, or three years, especially in the face of reforms affecting Parliament, the Government, the President of the Republic, bicameralism and the judiciary, important parts of the Charter. In the special procedure of Article 138, the Italian Constitution differs from the Constitutions of Weimar in Germany (in force from 1919 to 1933), and pre-fascist in Italy, which were flexible and were easily overturned by Hitler and Mussolini and led to dictatorship in the two countries. Flexible Constitutions can be changed by any majority depending on the conveniences of the garments and hair. We want the Constitution to remain rigid. The need for a wide range arises from the fact that constitutional reforms are so complex that it takes time for citizens and reformers to understand the changes they bring about in the democratic system. But we do not know what the reforms are; we only know that we want to change the legislation of Part II, on Parliament, on the Government and on the President of the Republic and on the Regions, and we also fear about the judiciary. According to Aristotle, when the Constitution is in danger, those who give thought to the Constitution, must provide reasons for fear, so that the citizens are on guard and do not loosen the vigilance around the Constitution. The citizens and the parliamentarians themselves, we repeat, know nothing of the precise content of the reforms threatened by the government. It is believed that the economic crisis that afflicts the country would be solved, but it is not. The crisis depends on the lack of willingness to make the right reforms: reducing the privileges of politicians and expenses of Chambers and Quirinale, public controls of participating companies, agreement to tax capital abroad, fight against evasion, corruption and much more. The right reforms can be launched quickly, using, in this case, the vote of confidence, on the basis of Article 77 of the Constitution. The reform of Part II of the Constitution, approved by elected spirits such as Aldo Moro, Piero Calamandrei, Giuseppe Dossetti and Palmiro Togliatti, ended up in the hands of persons appointed by party secretaries, without merit, freedom of decision and knowledge of the problem. The reform is extremely complex, keeping not only to the approval procedure, but also to the balance of powers (legislative, executive and judicial) achieved by the constituent Fathers; a balance that would suffer a fatal blow with the announced presidential reform. Moro, with prophetic intuition, in April 1948, denounced the danger that groups or individuals, by modifying Part II of the Constitution, would also be induced to oppose the consecrated principles in the Part The inherent nature and dignity of the human person, principles that should never be the subject of constitutional revision because altering them would mean condemning ourselves to ridicule, disorder, tragedy. "It is necessary for all men of good will to agree in the defense of those principles," said Aldo Moro in his writings. We have a good Constitution that protects the inviolable rights to work, to public school, to independent justice, to health, to life, which is based on the principle of equality of the conditions of citizens, understood as equal opportunity of all citizens to assert their own person in the various fields of human activity, so that all are actually strong and valued, allowing the small to become great (Tocqueville). This equality exerts a prodigious influence on the development of society. In Italy, this principle stated several times by the Constitution is in fact violated by the rulers, since our country is afflicted by serious social injustices that have increased in recent times. Yet the Constitution states that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. And it is clear that if a former Premier, who wants to change the Constitution today, fails to pay more than EUR 300 million, which could go for example to the realization of services and jobs for the poor, he blatantly violates the principle of equality laid down in Article 3, damaging workers, unemployed and young people, and the principle of political, economic and social solidarity, as provided for in Article 2, which is another fundamental pillar of our Charter. Piero Calamandrei pointed out that there are deceptive laws that seem to say one thing but actually want another. This is the case with the amendment of Article 138 of the Italian Constitution. You want to change Article 138 without specifying the content of the change you want to make, so that Article 138 is exempted from the dark, without knowing in view of what change, even if we know it, or in any case we intuit it. In other words, we know what the counter-reforms are. The aim is to upset the Constitution forever with the introduction of presidentialism or semi-presidency and the amendments of 69 articles in Part II, including articles concerning the judiciary, reducing the powers of Parliament that legislates on work, school, social equality, freedom, environment, economic planning inspired by social utility. And this is after the same reform desired by Berlusconi and approved in 2003 was rejected by the referendum in June 2006. That reform increased the powers of the Prime Minister (attributing to him the power to revoke the Ministers, to direct the policy of the Ministers, no longer coordinating it but determining it, and to dissolve the Chambers, which is the responsibility of the Head of State) and was considered an attack on the balance of powers. Herodotus warned that in democracy it is necessary that no one succeeds in achieving a position that is too preeminent to be abused. The Presidential Republic would become a regime, that is, the dictatorship of the majority that governs in contempt for the opposition, which is the cornerstone of democracy. Aristotle said that the basis of the democratic constitution is freedom, the end of all democracy. A proof of freedom is in being governed and in governing, that is, the alternation of governments. No individual can cover the same charge twice, charges are short-lived. It seems that Aristotle, with these words, was anticipating the commitment that we parliamentarians of the Five Star Movement have assumed, and we want to respect, not to hold the same office twice. We cannot forget, in launching the semi-presidency reform, that Presidents of the Council have been, for thirty years, people such as Giulio Andreotti, Francesco Cossiga and Silvio Berlusconi; people who have violated the rules of democracy, or who have maintained relations with Cosa Nostra, or who have been leading illegitimate organizations - such as Gladio, as President Gualtieri's Commission for massacres - or in fact inspired by the presidentialism desired by the head of the P2 Licio Gelli, in his project of democratic rebirth. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini]] With the presidential Republic there would be a danger of regime, a majority that governs without allowing the opposition to become a majority: all the more serious if the majority or part of it - as in the case of the government in office - is in turn hegemonized by a single person who makes the laws for his own sole advantage. On the contrary - according to Aristotle - the basis of democracy is freedom. A proof of freedom consists in being governed and ruling in turn, that is, in alternation. The majority decision is sovereign, but respecting the rights of the opposition. We ask that the Head of State, the first guarantor of the Charter, defend the Constitution, being in danger one of the supreme principles of the constitutional order, that of the balance of powers. On 25 November 2004, the current President of the Republic had to say, with regard to the reform of the Constitution provided for in draft law n. 2544, presented by the Berlusconi Government on 17 October 2003, the following: Is it possible to say that there are still requirements for strengthening the Prime Minister's powers? The way in which the majority who won the elections in 2001 exercised its powers and the way in which the President-in-Office of the Council (Berlusconi) has convinced us that we had jumped into an adventure? And he admonished: What is the homogeneous constitutional culture behind the bill (Berlusconi) approved by Parliament and I believe that there is some difficulty in seeing it? And he added: It will not be easy to fight for the rejection of the constitutional reform of the center-right. That reform rejected by the then president of the Napolitano Chamber was identical to what we want to do today. Even Giulio Andreotti said he opposed the greater powers of the President of the Council and added: If I were President of the Council, I would limit my powers precisely in anticipation of becoming President of the Council one that I do not like (sic). (These are the words of Andreotti, spoken on 25 November 2004). Professor Giuliano Vassalli pointed out the excess, for me, of powers that were attributed to the President of the Council of Ministers, towards the Chamber of Deputies, whose recalcitrant members would be exposed to the threat of early dissolution. (These are the words of Giuliano Vassalli, delivered on November 25, 2004 to the former parliamentarians Association). We cannot see why President Napolitano, who voted against the reform of the Constitution of the Berlusconi Government in 2006, is today in favour of this reform, equal and perhaps worse than that. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] But the serious thing is that we want to reform the Constitution, by delaying the reform of the electoral law, which should be approved first, because we want elected representatives with free, equal and personal votes, and not chosen by party secretaries. We cannot be reassured by the fact that, in bill 813, the referendum is always planned, because the most interested in the reform is the former Prime Minister, always the one sentenced to 4 years, who controls all televisions, who are able to influence 75% of the population that does not read the web. In defence of democracy two are the absolute and indisputable priorities, of which the Letta Government continues not to speak, with the silence of the Colle: the law on conflict of interest, in order to allow all citizens, men and women, to have access to the elective positions under conditions of equality, substantial and not only formal; the reform of the electoral law, in order to eliminate the filth of a law that recognizes to a party (or a coalition), that reaches 24-25 percent of the votes, to have an absolute majority and to govern against an opposition of 75%, in fact. In conclusion, we reject the idea that constitutional bill No. 813 changes Article 138, halving in the dark the times of double approval and with a single vote to non-homogeneous constitutional laws that cannot be voted together. The correct procedure to follow would be to present as many separate constitutional bills as there are reforms on Parliament, Government and bicameralism to be approved by two resolutions of the House at an interval not less than three months. The interval should also be six months or one year, so as to have the approval also by the new Parliament to be elected by a new electoral law. Ferdinando Imposimato suggests us, in a recent intervention, that: The Constitution is not an arid list of unnamed articles. Behind every article in the Constitution there are young people, young people like you, fallen, fallen fighting, young people who gave their lives so that words of justice and freedom could be sculpted on this Charter. If anyone asks you where our Constitution was born, you go to the mountains where young people were shot, in the fields where they were hanged, in the prisons where they were tortured. Where an Italian died to redeem the dignity of the Italian people - said Piero Calamandrei - go there with thought, or young people, because there our Constitution was born. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u71	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u72	Today, throughout the world, we celebrate the World Day of the Awareness of the Death of the Little Ones just before or shortly after the birth, a dramatic phenomenon that also affects our country and involves one in 250 births in the industrialized countries (10 times the frequency of death in the cradle) and which currently affects more than 2,500 families in Italy, who face this pain in silence, often without the necessary help (if that of the few associative realities such as CiaoLapo, which give what support the State often refuses to give), and above all without the proper diagnostic deepening, because the deaths are quickly indicated as random, while authoritative international studies reveal that currently the examination of each individual case could identify the causes in 70 percent of cases and this could be useful to save so many small lives in the future. I therefore call for a serious commitment from this House to address the problem and to arrive at the establishment of this deepening day, because only in this way will it be possible to raise awareness and knowledge. For this reason, I wanted to wear, together with many colleagues, the symbol of this day, a pink-celestial ribbon, in the memory of those little ones who are no longer there and to protect all those young lives that can still be saved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u73	Senator Di Biagio, I personally support your speech. Twenty years ago I was President of the Social Affairs Committee of the House and since then I have always followed the issue of death in the crib with Professor Maturri. I believe that this is a very important issue which needs to be further examined. I would therefore like to thank you for your speech and also for the ribbon, which I will personally add to your jacket.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u76	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I am speaking on a personal note. Today you have read a note about the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys in which it is said that my Twitter profile would be updated during the six post board, expressing considerations on issues within the political movement to which I belong. I don't have my own profile on Twitter, I never had it, in recent days I have warned impostors that evidently use the Net to create false elements of communication. As a result of this, of course I will also make a formal complaint to the Postal Police, because here we are really in a perverse circuit, according to which those who are obviously victims of computer piracy (I don't know how to define it otherwise) end up with this strange circuit to be associated, in the Senate Chamber, with cases that are very different. In fact, it is an account to talk about an opinion or comment that is made at the time when we discuss a colleague who has to lapse or who is believed to have to be devoid of his position as a senator, in some way delegating the colleague on which we must judge, another is other considerations on other topics that already if expressed on other topics you do not understand what they have to do with that case; if then, as in this case, they are absolutely non-existent, you end up in a cauldron in which it appears that all those of the Junta, while they were there, were committed to doing all other things. On the other hand, at least in the case of which I have been a victim, it is an act of computer piracy, and I would point out to the Presidency that this involves, even beyond the specific case, broader reflections. In fact, when the Network circulates real fakes, assigning them to people, parliamentarians or entrepreneurs, and these things go around, go and deny them once they have been published and have entered a certain circuit becomes very difficult, because then the sites continue to repeat the same falsehood for millions of times. A person doesn't know how to defend himself from this phenomenon; for example, even when I'm speaking, other sites in my name can be opened to put absolutely false things in circulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u77	I'm sorry, Senator Giovanardi. It happened to me, too, to have a Facebook profile that had nothing to do with me, but had even more than 10,000 friends or contacts. At least it's not a bad thing, so I got over it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u78	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-125.ana.u79	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 16 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.58 p.m.
