ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 825, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Garavini and others, Migliore and others, Brunetta and others, 93, 656, 722 and 827. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I think it is appropriate to begin my report with a brief historical premise which takes into account the long term and also the delays and difficulties with which the Italian Parliament has dealt with the issue of the fight against the Mafia. In fact, the awareness of the mob phenomenon in Parliament, for the purpose of setting up a Commission of inquiry, matures only in the sixties of the twentieth century. In the third legislature, the first Commission of Inquiry was set up under Law No. 1720 of 1962. This led to the conclusion of the parliamentary procedure of a draft law signed by Senator Parri, which was presented as early as November 1958. In the introductory report there are more and more elements, reinterpreting the evolution of the mafia, including the early emphasis that the problem of the activity of the mafia in Sicily has become more and more a problem of national importance, not only in the organs of public power, but above all for the ever-widening and strong correlations that the phenomenon has established with the economic and political centres of national life and for the relationships that have been established in the international field. The legislature ended without the newly established Commission of Inquiry setting up its activities. The second Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission was established by Law No 646 of 13 September 1982 (so-called Rognoni-La Torre Law) on the basis of the emotion generated by the assassinations, on 30 April of that year, by Pio La Torre, deputy and regional secretary of the Sicilian PCI and, on 3 September, by Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa, general of the newly appointed Prefect Carabinieri of Palermo. It had no powers of inquiry. It was entrusted with the task of verifying the implementation of the anti-mafia laws, of ascertaining the adequacy of the legislation, the consequent action of the public authorities and, finally, of suggesting to Parliament legislative and administrative measures. It finished its work in 1987, at the end of the ninth legislature. The third Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission was set up in the 10th legislature, under Law No. 94 of 1988, and was endowed with powers of inquiry, like all subsequent ones. The Fourth Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission was established in the 11th legislature, in the dramatic emergency posed by the massacre offensive that took the life of judges Falcone and Borsellino. Each of the successive legislative acts has been approved by a law establishing a Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Investigation Commission. The text before the Assembly reproduces almost unchanged - subject to minor variations which I will now take into account - the text of the law establishing the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission in the 16th legislature (Law No 132 of 4 August 2008). The main variations concern only some aspects: the use of the expression "mafie" to the plural; an update of the regulatory references; a new provision (Article 2, paragraph 1, last period), relating to the case of supervenience, in the case of a member of the Commission, of the situations provided for in the proposal for self-regulation approved by the Commission in the previous legislature, from which comes an obligation of immediate information to the Presidency of the House of belonging; finally, the forecast that the internal rules of the Commission determine the maximum number of collaborators. The law establishing the Anti-Mafia Commission of the last legislature first extended the scope of analysis to foreign associations, however called, which, taking advantage of the intimidating force of the associative bond, pursue purposes corresponding to those of associations of the mafia type. The Commission's tasks are to verify, investigate and formulate improved proposals on a comprehensive set of issues. In this respect, the Commission shall report to Parliament at the end of its work, or at any time when it considers it appropriate, in any case at least on an annual basis. The tasks assigned reflect the deepening of the following themes and profiles: the implementation of Law No. 646 of 1982 (the law "Rognoni-La Torre" which introduced, in the penal code, Article 416 bis, thus providing for the crime of association of the mafia type and which constitutes the architrave of the anti-mafia legislation in force), as well as of the code referred to in Legislative Decree No. 159 of 2011, of the other laws of the State and of the parliamentary guidelines relating to the mafia phenomenon and the main criminal organizations; the legislation on the collaboration of justice (in this regard it is noted that the term within which the collaborator is obliged to expose his declarations remains one of the most controversial profiles of the discipline, which currently does not provide for the extension, in cases of particular complexity); the application of Article 41 bis of the penitentiary law to the accused or condemned for delicts of the mafia type, a decisive instrument in the fight against mafia crime; the coordinated operation of State, regions and local authorities, as well as the conclusion of international agreements in the prevention of criminal activities and of the criminal activities in the criminal activities, including the creation of criminal cooperation in the creation of a legal area, including the creation of its own, as well as an anti-of an anti-fiose phenomenon, such an anti-refuge; the development; the development of criminal activity; the development of the development of the development of criminal activity of the following of criminal activity of the following the following of criminal activity; As for the relations between the mafia and politics, it is necessary to focus on the phenomenon of infiltration into the administrative bodies, with particular regard to the selection of nominations and management groups and the impact in subsequent historical moments on crimes and massacres of a political-mafia character. Moreover, there is the theme of infiltration or conditioning in public procurement and works, as well as the forms of accumulation, investment and recycling of illicit assets and proceeds, such as verification of the negative impact of mafia activities on the production system. With regard to the adequacy of anti-money laundering legislation, with particular attention to financial mediation and business networks, it can be noted that, with regard to criminal law, the crime of money laundering has been progressively refined over time. Among the problematic profiles still debated, there is the fact that - according to current legislation - the perpetrator of the crime cannot be punished for the crime of money laundering. The so-called self-laundering, i.e. the money laundering carried out by the same offender as the illicit acquisition of financial resources, remains unleashed. According to several operators heard by the Anti-Mafia Commission during the previous parliamentary term, this results in an incompleteness of the criminal anti-money laundering order, which will certainly have to be deepened. With regard to the verification of the rules on confiscation of property and their social and productive use, this is one of the problems, on the regulatory level, especially with regard to the sale of real estate definitively confiscated. The current discipline is highly restrictive towards the sale to private persons of real estate, where it allows the sale to private individuals of corporate property ('if there is a greater utility for the public interest'). Finally, there is the verification of the adequacy of the structures responsible for preventing and combating criminal phenomena, including by consulting associations engaged in the fight against the mafia, as well as the monitoring of attempts to conditioning and infiltration of mafias in local authorities and the verification of the effectiveness of the legislation, including that concerning the dissolution of local authorities and the removal of administrators. The powers of the Commission of Inquiry are similar to those of the judicial authority, as provided for in Article 82 of the Constitution. However, a specific limitation is provided for in the draft law. The Commission may not take measures relating to the freedom and secrecy of correspondence and other forms of communication or restrictions on personal freedom, with the exception of the coercive accompaniment of witnesses. As far as the structure of the Commission is concerned, a composition of 50 members is envisaged, as in previous founding laws. Article 4 of the draft law regulates - while maintaining the jurisdiction of the judicial authority - the hearings as evidence. The current rules on professional and banking secrecy remain firm and the secrecy between the lawyer and the procedural party within the scope of the mandate is always opposable. It is not contrary to the Commission's obligation to keep secrets of its own motion. With regard to State secrecy, the provisions of Law No 124 of 2007 apply. Article 5 of the draft law governs the request for documents and documents: the Commission may request copies of documents and documents from the bodies and offices of the public administration, including judicial proceedings (as well as other parliamentary investigations, without a functional secret being invoked in that case). Of the documents acquired, the Commission shall determine which documents should not be disclosed. Article 6 of the draft law provides for the obligation of secrecy for the members of the Commission, the staff of the Commission, the staff or any person involved in carrying out investigations or who becomes aware of them for reasons of office or service. The obligation of secrecy shall be punishable criminally, in accordance with Article 326 of the Criminal Code, unless the fact constitutes a more serious offence. This sanctioning provision applies to any person who spreads, in whole or in part, even for summary or information, the acts and documents of which disclosure has been prohibited. Finally, the Commission is responsible for the computerization of documents acquired and produced. Of the other four draft laws on the establishment of an anti-mafia commission in the 17th legislature, absorption is required. Of their content, it is worth mentioning, for details, only the main profile for which there is significant variation from the text approved by the House of Deputies. The draft law No. 93 (the initiative of Senators Lumia and others) places specific attention, within the Commission's tasks, to the inquiry into the massacres of 1992-1993. To this end, the Commission shall have without notice access to the archives of the Security Information Services. The draft law No 656 (the initiative of Senators De Cristofaro and others) provides for a reduction in the number of members of the Commission to 30 members. In addition, it provides for the non-opposition of State secrecy in respect of the Commission's request for access to documents held by the State Security Information Services relating to Commission investigation matters. The draft law No. 722 (by the initiative of Senators Schifani and others) reproduces, except for minor textual variations, the dictation of the previous founding law, No. 132 of 2008. Finally, the draft law No 827 (by the initiative of Senators Giarrusso and others) highlights, among the tasks of the Commission, the assessment of the mourning events of the two years 1992-1993, with an explicit reference to the alleged direct or indirect negotiation between criminal organizations and apparatuses, sectors or institutional representatives. This bill, like Act 656, also proposes to reduce the number of members of the Commission, providing for 40. It also excludes the participation of persons convicted of a crime not manslaughter, i.e. more than ten months and twenty days imprisonment for manslaughter. It also excludes persons for whom - for facts of that magnitude - the decree ordering the judgment or the prosecution by means of its promotion by the public prosecutor has been issued by the judicial authority or has been notified by the public prosecutor. Finally, the draft law provides that the Commission is not in a position to object to the secrecy of the State, either of its own motion or of its professional or banking secrecy. That is all, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention and I hope that the anti-Mafia Commission in this 17th legislature will be able to carry out its tasks as best it can. It is an expectation that we must not disappoint and it is a political and civil commitment for which the institutions are obliged to take responsibility in the supreme interest of the nation and of civil coexistence. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Mixed Groups and Senator Bruno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said and written about mafia criminal organizations in Italy. From the 1960s, when we became aware in Parliament of the Mafia phenomenon, until the last anti-Mafia Commission of the previous legislature, many efforts were made to investigate and know the underworld in our country. The infiltration of organized crime in northern Italy, the penetration of foreign mafias in our country, international collaborations between gangs - which over time have created real crime cartels - need a continuous study and investigation by the legislator and an increasing collaboration with the judiciary and police forces that daily devote themselves to the fight against mafias. Draft Law No 825 establishes a parliamentary committee of inquiry into mafias, including foreign mafias. For the first time we talk about "mafie" in the plural. The Mafia phenomenon cannot be confined to the Sicilian mafia or other traditional organisations. More and more foreign subjects operate in our territory in a cross-cutting and collaborative manner with our own criminal associations. However, we must have the courage to admit that, on some occasions, the fight against the Mafia has failed to fully achieve its objective. Memory goes to the beginning of republican history, when the State fought banditism thinking in this way of defeating the Mafia. At that time what ours was mainly agrarian and enemy of the nascent peasant syndicalism in Sicily, so much so as to perpetrate the massacre of Portella della Ginestra in 1947. During our recent history many martyrs of the struggle against the Mafia have been. I would therefore like to mention here the magistrates, the members of the police forces and also the politicians killed in an attempt to finally defeat organized crime in Italy. The Mafia, however, seems to be a step ahead of the legislator. When Parliament adopts a law to combat a specific aspect of the mob phenomenon, criminals have already directed their criminal activity towards new business, also changing their own organizational structure. That is why, among the Commission's investigative powers, I think there should be an investigation into the phenomenon of ecomafias, i.e. all those illegal activities of criminal organisations that cause damage to the environment. In particular, the criminal associations dedicated to trafficking and illegal disposal of waste and to large-scale building abuse are generally defined as ecomafias. Also activities such as abusive excavation, trafficking in exotic animals, plundering of archaeological goods and breeding of combat animals can be considered in this way. Ecomaphias is the only economy that continues to proliferate even in a context of general crisis. An illegal economy based on the interweaving of unscrupulous entrepreneurs, conniving politicians, unfaithful public officials, unethical professionals and criminal bosses. Environmental mafias are engaged in the counterfeiting of invoices and budgets, tax evasion and money laundering, corruption, the exchange vote and the sharing of contracts. Simply because it is worthwhile and, all in all, there is little risk. The penalties for environmental crimes, in fact, continue to be almost limited to administrative sanctions and the demolition of buildings continues to be a remote possibility. The photograph that makes Legambiente in its annual report on eco-afies is relentless and describes a country where environmental crime is rampant and increases its profits to an extent. These are the 2012 data released by Legambiente in its latest report on the eco-afies: 34,120 crimes, 28,132 reported persons, 161 detention orders, 8,286 seizures, for a turnover of 16,7 billion euros managed by 302 clans, 6 more than those recorded last year. 45.7% of the crimes are concentrated in the four regions with traditional mafia presence (Campania, Sicily, Calabria and Puglia) followed by Lazio, with a number of crimes growing compared to 2011 (+13.2 percent) and from Tuscany (+15.4 percent). First Region of Northern Italy, Liguria. To signal for the increase of the illicits confirmed also my Region, the Veneto, with a +18.9 percent, and Umbria. Illegals against animals and wildlife are also growing (+6.4%), reaching 8,000, at an average of almost 22 crimes per day and has the most sign of the number of forest fires that have hit our country: exactly +4.6 percent. This year, Campania is also leading the classification of environmental lawlessness in our country, with almost 5,000 infringements detected, more than 3,000 people reported and 34 arrests. And this applies both to the illegal cycle of cement and to waste. Right in Campania, the criminal practice of disposing or recycling special waste by burning it has been going on for many, too many years. It goes on like it's nothing. Always in the same places. Crimes can take place at every level of the waste cycle: production, transport and disposal. The producer can declare false the quantity or type of waste to be disposed of, or commission the operation companies that work below cost, being aware that they will use illegal methods. At the level of transport, goods classification documents may be tampered with in order to hijack the cargo or make it disappear. The illegal spilling of toxic and ordinary waste, as told by the writer Roberto Saviano in "Gomorra" represents a very lucrative business. In the "Terra dei Fuochi" (Terra dei Fuochi), that area of Campania so known for the burnings of garbage heaps, the turnover of the ecomafia has been 44 billion euros in four years. An exponentially growing business, comparable only to the expansion of the cocaine market. Since the 1990s, the Camorristic Clans have been the continental leaders of waste disposal. The clan of the Casalesi in the first place, but not only. The Mallard clan of Giugliano is also very active in the environmental mafia. The pollution of its territory and the worsening quality of life of the entire community, causing respiratory diseases, asthma, tumors, are not able to stop the anxiety of enormous immediate profits from the clans. To reduce the costs of waste disposal, unscrupulous entrepreneurs in Northern Italy entrust their waste to the bosses of Camorra. The relationship between companies in the North and the clans involved in the illegal disposal of waste must therefore be investigated in depth. Every year hundreds and hundreds of trucks bring to Campania real mountains of waste that destroy the territory and the health of the citizens who live there. As Saviano wrote, the countryside of Neapolitan and Casertano are "mappamondi della monnezza", an illegal reflection of Italian industrial production. South Italy, therefore, as the abusive landfill of rich and industrialized Italy, according to the sad definition of the bishop of Nola. Soil dioxin pollution is extremely dangerous because it introduces toxic substances into the food chain of farmed animals and also reaches man. We all remember how in March 2008 dioxin presences were found in buffalo milk from dairy farms, attributed to environmental pollution. Following the news, the sale of Campania's dairy products decreased significantly, not only in Italy, but also abroad. The damage caused by environmental mafias is therefore multiple. Italy is also a crossroads of international waste traffic, coming from European countries and destined for Nigeria, Mozambique, Somalia, Romania and lately also in Asian countries. The ramifications of environmental mafias are therefore defeated thanks to international agreements. This is why the creation of an anti-mafia legal area in the European Union is crucial. Environmental crime knows how to seize all the new opportunities offered by globalization: the Central Anti-Fraud Office of the Customs Agency indicates that the quantities of materials seized in our ports in 2012 have doubled compared to 2011, going from 7,000 to more than 14,000 tons, thanks above all to the so-called waste, that is the reusable waste coming from the processing of another product. These are materials which should be used to feed the legal economy of recycling and which, on the other hand, end up in South Korea (e.g. rubber waste), China and Hong Kong (cascades and scrap of plastics, for recycling or combustion). These flows guarantee huge profits to traffickers and double damage to the legal economy: the first is because ecological contributions are paid for treatment and recycling activities that are not carried out; the second is because companies that operate in legality are penalised. Allowing the judiciary and law enforcement to take appropriate action, as the result of a careful and objective assessment of criminal phenomena, their causes and their consequences, should be one of the main objectives of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. To fight against ecomafias means to protect the health of citizens, to safeguard the environment and our territory and, last, to increase the healthy productive activities of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed, Mixed-SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u8	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and criminal associations is undoubtedly the expression of an institutional awareness of a complex phenomenon, against which, in addition to the regulatory and procedural instruments currently in force and amended, we are obliged to do much more. As my previous colleagues have pointed out, the anti-Mafia Commission is also an expression of a sort of cultural emancipation of the institutions in relation to the phenomenon of mafias, also because its institution starts in the 1960s. The work it has done has undoubtedly been an added value in the fight against the Mafia, although sometimes it has limited itself to mere formal positions. The mafias represent a very serious economic, cultural, ethical and social vulnus for our country and their contrast must be the first point on the agenda of national politics. This is why the establishment of the new Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission is also a delicate and essential step in this parliamentary term; a step that can renew, by remodulating the instruments at our disposal, the potential of the fight against the Mafia by the institutions. What has been achieved by the House of Deputies on the proposals for the establishment of the Commission, in a spirit of transversality and of extreme sharing, must be a significant premise for us to start from in order to strengthen the political will on a sensitive front such as that of policies and initiatives to combat the Mafia. They never deserve, in fact, as at this moment, a showy innovative push, especially in the light of the recent dynamics connected with the alleged negotiation between the State and ours, on which we still wait for clarity to be made, and in respect of which the operational impetus of a Parliamentary Commission can undoubtedly play a fundamental role. Twenty years after the massacre, the institutions cannot be confined to the rhetoric or to a more formal parliamentary entity that is really operational: acting and progressing should be our watchwords. The scenario within which the mafia and its entrenches have evolved is that infamy and connivance have mixed in a shameful way: before it the State must act vigorously in all possible ways, and above all with all possible instruments. Today's proposals are precisely in this light, because they enable Parliament to play an active role in a process of change, no matter how complex it may be. I don't want to sin rhetoric, but I think that precisely with these bases the country can finally deal with its history: a recent and obscure story that still weighs on the conscience of all Italians. And a few hours after the Mori trial, in the context of the State-Mafia negotiation investigation, all this unfortunately seems even more amplified and significant. As I have already pointed out, in my opinion the new Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, with its renewed scope, could represent a step forward in the path of cultural emancipation, regulation and state policy towards the phenomenon; a phenomenon in evolution and against which since 1992 they have begun to change the approach and awareness by the Italians. In May 1992, for the first time, the country was aware of the justice crushed under the weight of the Mafia, and this represented a sort of Italy's initiation into the culture of anti-Mafia. The slaughter season, the death of women and men of the State at the hands of what we represent a lens through which to look at the evolution of our country. Twenty years after those massacres, our country has completely changed: today there is a level of sensitivity and unthinkable knowledge in the early 1990s. In public opinion, until then, the Mafia was pointed out as something abstract away from reality and the State: after those events, the Mafia suddenly became something real to fight. This was the first conquest of the sacrifice of men of state; the awareness that the mafia is not only the one who pulls a trigger or spills in the toxic waste land: the mafia is also the one who is conniving and who negotiated with the State allowing all this. The greatest infamy is in the connivance, in the negotiation between politics and ours that, laboriously and only now, is coming out of the open. This awareness must be strengthened by Parliament, it must enhance it and consolidate it, with the instruments at its disposal, and it must convey it towards initiatives and proposals which go in the direction of a full and effective fight against crime. Today Parliament must take responsibility for improving and strengthening the culture of anti-mafia that is taking shape in this country. And through the constitution of the new Anti-Mafia Commission we must give voice, with insights, analyses and comparisons, precisely to this Italy: the one that has collected the legacy of Falcone and Borsellino; an Italy of women and men, ordinary people and men of state, without distinctions and hierarchies, who knows how to say no to the mafia and its derivatives, with pride and with great dignity. We can only do this if there is a political will at the base: the one capable of turning words into deeds and the one that can invite everyone to responsibility. And the political will must start from small actions and small decisions, from the application of an ethical code for Parliament that can guarantee - on the right basis of any action - the operational transparency of the individual. In a complex scenario such as the current one, in which the activity of the malavitous sectors appears to be promiscuous and particularly invasive, considering the global scenario within which it takes shape, the issues that the Commission will have to address are many. The priority at the moment is to set the project in motion, ensuring that the choice of components, full political support and the willingness of all parliamentary groups to allow the Commission to function rapidly as early as September. The Commission must be asked to respond to sensitive issues, to provide solutions and to give guidance, not to merely formal acts. It therefore seems imperative to overcome the fences and the smokiness of politics in the name of a sense of the State and a renewed institutional responsibility, which cannot and must not be limited to words, but must finally be translated into decisive actions for the good of that Italy that we would like. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u10	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u11	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, fellow citizens, dear citizens, it is by no means easy to recall certain statements made by certain local administrators on the subject of the mafia. I was small, but I remember it: a former mayor of my city, in the '80s, had to say: ==References====External links== This statement was made in two particular situations, the first time when in Valderice, a locality near Trapani, the mafia killed the public prosecutor Giangiacomo Ciaccio Montalto, the second time immediately after a vile attack that is remembered as the massacre of Pizzolungo. On the subject of mafia there is a strange thread of continuity on Trapani, because a few years after another mayor, Girolamo Fazio, for ten years (from 2002 to 2012) at the head of my city, had to say: The Mafia exists because there are anti-mafia professionals. The mayor himself denied honorary citizenship to Prefect Fulvio Sodano. Also for this strange thread we reach the current mayor of my Trapani, Vito Damiano, who says: "There is no need to talk about the mob, because there is a risk of giving it too much importance." The current mayor, among other things, was general of the Carabinieri's weapon, so it should be normal for him to understand and not say certain things. This statement, moreover, perhaps made it in the wrongest place, that is, within a school, where our children must grow up with a correct culture. It is known that in Italy you prefer to cure rather than prevent, therefore you often take measures only when you can not do otherwise. Therefore, it was preferred to wait until the Mafia had already established a widespread organizational system and that the first crimes were committed, see the murderous offensive that took the life of judges Falcone and Borsellino. Today, what is most concerned is the functional aspects, the actual performance of functions and the composition of the Anti-Mafia Commission. (Brusio). Mr President, here is the rumor of this House that, as you said a few days ago, it is not deaf. She pretends to be deaf! The benches are empty at a time when there aren't even the Commissions called in. We are talking about a very important issue and the seats are empty! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Mr President, without disrespecting the Presidency and anyone in this House, I want to go beyond any kind of inadmissibility of any agenda, any amendment or any Rules of Procedure. My speech wants to be that of a normal person, a normal citizen, a senator citizen of the normal Republic. In my opinion and in our view of the 5 Star Movement, it is desirable to increase as much as possible the powers and prerogatives conferred on the Commission, so as to make controls and work in general more penetrating and effective. It is in this direction that our amendments and our agendas move. Much attention must be paid to the article on the composition of the Anti-Mafia Commission, where it does not provide adequate guarantees, in order to prevent pathological implications in the appointment of the members of the Commission. This has happened. It happened (not 50 years ago, but a few months ago and - alas! - also in Sicily) that, coinciding with the 21st anniversary of the massacre of Capaci, the Sicilian Regional Assembly appointed the Anti-Mafia Commission by including within it Members who have been convicted of office abuse, for private violence; an MP even, according to the reports of the DIA who speak clearly, is said to have relations with the family of the Mafia fugitive Matteo Messina Money. And in the meantime, they're part of these Commissions. Well, we think it's normal for you to actually tighten your belt there. And because - I repeat - I cannot ask it through the Rules of Procedure and I cannot do it otherwise, I ask the political forces in this House to do so using common sense. Let's make sure that people who are remanded or convicted of Mafia crimes are not part of the anti-mafia committee of the 17th legislature. [[Applause from the M5S and SCPI groups and the Finocchiaro and Candiani senators]] I'll tell you this, as a normal citizen: it's something that we all have to try to explain outside. I want to take this responsibility with you and all of you, Mr President. I want there to be no shadows within this Commission. [[Applause from the M5S and SCP Groups and Senator Mastrangeli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u12	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Government, Mrs De Camillis, in order to better understand the importance of the anti-mafia Commission, the institution of the Commission and the examination of the legislative proposal, it is appropriate to recall, briefly and briefly - as the rapporteur has already done - its development over time and its effectiveness. Already with the I Legislature of 1948 he proposed to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the problem of public order in Sicily. Later, in 1962, the first Commission was established under Law No. 1720. The second Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission was established by the law of 13 September 1982, n. 646 (so-called Rognoni-La Torre Law); although it had no powers of inquiry, it had assigned verification tasks for the implementation of the anti-Mafia laws, as well as to ascertain the adequacy of the legislation, the action of the public authorities and to indicate to Parliament legislative and administrative measures. The third Commission, in the 10th legislature (Law No 94 of 1988), was endowed with powers of inquiry, like the others that will follow. It, in its reports, drew attention to an effort, both cognitive and proactive, on how to adapt the regulatory system to changes in the structure of the Mafia organization. It came to the fourth Commission in the XI legislature by decree n. 306 of 1992, issued and converted into law at that stage of emergency and offense of the murders of judges Falcone and Borsellino. Subsequent legislation adopted a law setting up a bicameral anti-mafia investigation commission. This brief and synthetic excursus of the genealogy and evolution of the anti-mafia parliamentary committees becomes necessary to better understand how complex it has been to reach a reality that today can appear natural. In fact, the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission remains an indispensable institutional legal instrument for the knowledge, struggle and resolution of the Mafia phenomenon in our country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, in the 17th legislature of the Republic, we are called upon to discuss and approve the law for the establishment of the 10th Commission of Inquiry into Mafia and organised crime. By mentally retracing the brief excursus just read, of which we have a detailed information in the dossier of the office studies of the Senate, we can realize how much and how our work today is anything but a necessary procedural step or, even, repetitive. The creation of the 10th Anti-Mafia Commission represents the re-establishment of an instrument which has already been consolidated, tested in its effectiveness, but which is even more to be strengthened, since, as the Mafia phenomenon develops, at the same time, even anticipating and cutting off its evolution and growth, our work is being given more and better commitment from time to time for a Commission that must be increasingly effective instrument against organised crime. For our part, therefore, a commitment of high civic responsibility is renewed, the duty to produce an extraordinary and fundamental instrument for the democratic life of the country and to make it work well with an action of monitoring and control of the mob phenomenon. The structure of the mafias, their action on the national territory, its interweavings in society, with politics and institutions, in short its metamorphosis, makes continuous changes to the law necessary. Today the mafia has changed skin, but also DNA, I add. The mafia with all its different regional and supraregional denominations is deeply embodied in the Italian social and economic body, dedicated to illicit affairs that include the market of drugs, weapons, urban and toxic waste and even the market of illegal immigrants. Organized crime enjoys a billionaire business trip never in crisis. It is a huge offence, which is a frightening damage to the national economy, to the spontaneity of the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises and to youth entrepreneurship, especially in the South. We know, however, that the phenomenon also involves the North of the country in different ways. Continuously updated data and surveys now describe the territories of the industrialized regions of the North strongly involved in increasing affairs of the mafia organizations. Here, in times of economic crisis, the underworld is finding fertile ground to invest and recycle huge amounts of illicit money. A phenomenon often overlooked by politics, but not by analysts, regarding the replacement of mafia organisations in prerogatives that should belong to the state. Indeed, the action of mobsters takes place better where the presence of the State is less present. The absence of the State does not mean the absence of law enforcement: anything else; it is a shortage and lack of services, such as schools, structures of social aggregation, cultural activities and productive and entrepreneurial activities. It is now clear that where the State is absent, where services and especially work are lacking, mafia crime plays an easy role in engaging in labour and, often, young people, who, having no other prospects, let themselves be entangled by unscrupulous criminals who, replacing the rule of law, promise to guarantee work, even if illegal, and protection. This, in my opinion, is a central point of organised crime on which policy should focus more on. In view of the evolution of the mafias, their ever-growing turnover, their actions on a global scale through the recycling of large sums of money resulting from illegal activity in third countries, it is necessary to concentrate the measures of contrast through non-univocal and unilateral responses. To this end, the Convention against Transnational Organised Crime, organised by the United Nations in Palermo in 2000, is undoubtedly a significant instrument of shared responsibility and direction. Once again, through the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry, we are called upon to deepen our knowledge and to analyse the effectiveness of the institutional instruments adopted, improving them where necessary. Clearly, the draft law that we are about to approve certainly takes into account the knowledge of the facts and data that I have briefly mentioned here and is in line with the rules that have established the previous Commission, aimed at extending the investigation to all national and foreign and transnational criminal associations operating in the national territory. Furthermore, in accordance with previous founding laws, it is appropriate to confer on the Commission the task of verifying the implementation of the laws adopted against organised crime in its various denominations, as well as those concerning collaborators and witnesses of justice and, again, of verifying the adequacy of the laws relating to the prison regime for defendants or convicted of mafia crimes and money laundering. Another key point that the Commission is called upon to monitor concerns the implementation of Law No 190 of 6 November 2012 laying down provisions for the prevention and repression of corruption and lawlessness in the public administration, a key area for the eradication of the Mafia modus operandi. A further aspect of the Commission's work still concerns the verification of the adequacy of the rules on asset prevention measures, confiscation of assets and their social and productive use. The Commission will also have to call on all parties to renew their membership of the self-regulation code, confirming their commitment not to present as candidates for the upcoming regional, provincial, municipal and circumscription elections, persons subject to precautionary measures that are not revoked or cancelled, fugitives or who are in detention. More clearly, they will not be able to run for inquisition or conviction for mafia association, recycling, extortion, wear, fraudulent transfer of values, illicit trafficking of waste. Parties which do not wish to sign this self-regulation document will have to make public their reasons. The same text, which we shall approve, provides that, in the event of survival after the setting up of the Commission of one or more of the abovementioned circumstances, the person concerned will have to inform the President of the House of his or her place of residence without delay. Therefore, the Commission will also have to investigate the relationship between the mafia and politics, as unfortunately this is an ever-present aspect of national reality. The mafia infiltration into the public economic and productive system, where there is the logic of the vote of exchange, is a phenomenon to be fought with ever greater vigour and therefore to be interrupted. In these circumstances it must be borne in mind that the normal development of Italian democratic life is not guaranteed, with obvious and serious social, economic and cultural repercussions. It is now clear that the Mafia finds fertile and proliferating ground where a cohesive policy and a culturally strong social structure are lacking: a society imbued with the values and principles of justice, equality and solidarity is a guarantee of genuine freedom in a rule of law. Where these basic values are absent they easily take crime, corruption, evil, that is, all those social evils often chained together. And this is how we generate those perverse and pervert dynamics, which also generate collusion relations with public administrations and which pollute and weaken institutions and politics in general. This seems to happen in an atmosphere of alarming indifference and critical absence on the part of civil society itself, where the ethical and moral component, more than fundamental value, risks being reduced to an optional, of which only a few must take charge: occasional heroes. I would like to conclude by calling on all of us to think about ethics, without which there is a risk of losing sight of the meaning of our high function; this reflection necessarily leads to the assumption of responsibility of the Commission which will be set up and of Parliament, which is called upon by the citizens to enforce and strengthen the prerogatives and demands of democratic life and of the State. In this situation, in which the country presents such an ethical deficit, it becomes even more urgent to pay attention to the demands and needs of honest, hard-working citizens, dedicated to compliance with the rules, victims - directly or indirectly - more exposed to the actions of organized crime. An even stronger cultural change is now vital, a mentality combined with an action that educates the ethics of individual and social responsibility. Indeed, the trivialization of responsibility has so far produced enormous failures to democratic life, where those who have carried out their duty with ethical consistency, without betraying their own being man, woman, citizen, paid (and continues to pay) even with life. Brave people, heroes in spite of them, who have sometimes experienced the drama of being left alone by those who, instead, should have encouraged and protected them. The examples are countless, from the most striking, such as Dalla Chiesa, Falcone, Borsellino, Don Pino Puglisi, Mattarella, Pio La Torre, Livatino, Libero Grassi, to the representatives of the law enforcement forces, entrepreneurs, traders and ordinary citizens. The health of the social fabric of Italy must therefore be restored, but also strengthened; the indispensable and vital action of the school, the Church and associations must therefore be accompanied by the ethics of the responsibility of institutions and politics. Mine is certainly also an appeal to all the healthy energies of the country, and there are many, where ethical relativism must be replaced - I repeat - the ethics of duty and responsibility, legality and justice, for the well-being and progress of the democratic life of Italy. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u14	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in recent legislation, both in society and in Parliament, there has been a debate on whether or not to give life to the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. I am among those who believe that the anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission still has a role to play, provided that it does not lull over its laurels. It is true: it has a glorious past, the deeds are narrated; in some moments it was an important lighthouse to orient a country where the denial of the same presence of the mafias in our territory, in the economy and - imagine - in politics was prevalent. However, memory is no longer enough; the glorious history of the Anti-Mafia Commission is no longer enough. Today the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission needs to make a qualitative leap, in its way of working and in the objectives to be achieved; this leap must be able to make an unprecedented journey to our country and to the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, never our country, never the institutions of our country, never the parliaments that have succeeded in the life of Italy, and so governments, have made the fight against the mafias a first and great priority: never a priority around which to collect the best energies and the best planning; never a priority able to declare war on the mafias in a design and systematic way. We have made some progress, we have become, let's say, good in the next day's anti-mafia: first they strike and then the State reacts. This was the case in the early 1980s. On 30 April 1982 Pio La Torre fell, on 3 September of that same year the Prefect General Dalla Chiesa. Only on 13 September 1982 did Parliament finally wake up and give life to that anti-mafia legislation, 416- bis and the aggression against assets, which are two milestones, two fundamental choices around which the best choices of anti-mafia legislation were subsequently built. This was the case in the tragic moments of the massacres of 1992-1993. Falcone had a systematic design idea of the fight against the mafias. That great project was prevented from him; the slaughter season of which much is being discussed today and the damn negotiation managed to block that design dimension. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to make a qualitative leap. Let's try to dream with semi-open eyes, as a great intellectual like Ernst Bloch said, and look at our society; let's think about how the fight against the mafia could be a great lever able to move the mountains of the problems we have in our country and give dynamism to our economy. There are about 150 billions that the mafia organizations today are able to bill, a huge amount, especially in the dramatic crisis in which we live. Let us think about how much value we could give to the new generations by restoring confidence and hope in the relationship with the institutions and politics. Let us consider how much credibility our country could have if in Europe it could impose, with a strong and qualified attitude, a common anti-mafia legal area, if it could do so in the international context. It's about these hours the news about a big mob boss of a very powerful cartel of Mexicans, militarily unprecedented, also able to move a huge mass of economy and finance around the great traffic of cocaine and drugs. That is why we have a historic opportunity and, in the hardships and enormous difficulties of this parliamentary term, a qualitative leap must be made. Perhaps the fight against the mafias could make us all look differently; perhaps it could loosen some remaining unresolved nodes in relations within the majority and with oppositions. In short, we could make it a great opportunity to really reform politics and to remove the obstacles that today prevent Italian society from flying. The anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission has enormous powers; perhaps it is the only institutional reality, among the advanced democracies, that it is able to intervene on the judicial authority, because it has the same powers as the judiciary; it can intervene on the legislative power, on the parliaments, on us, because it has a power of direction, and on the Executive. In short, it has all the tools to guide this great process of innovation and change in Italian society. Of course we have to believe that. We must ensure that Members who will be chosen to go to the anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission feel that, first of all, they belong to the State, before their own groups, that they are Commissioners who must not look at anyone's face. Of course they must use those powers with rigour, seriousness with a non-instrumental logic, and make sure that our country has an unprecedented tool. With this approach we could face the 1992-1993 slaughter season, tell the country that, at last, the institutions, through the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, are able to face those terrible truths, prepare the country even for the deepest and most painful truths, and make sure that that period is no longer a period removed, that divides, but a period when institutions really look inside, understand the responsibilities and make a qualitative leap. It is also an opportunity to broaden the vision of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission and reach an open territorial vision. Today all territories have to deal with the presence of the mafias, no one excluded. And when she denied herself in the North, she gave herself a gift to the mafias. And when it was minimized in the North, it facilitated the growth of the mafias and arrived later. And that's where the next day's anti-mafia was organized. Today, denying and minimizing is a very serious fact. Instead, we must prepare, organize better, structure a project capable of striking the mafias, in all their aspects, on the military side (yes, on the military side), with even more advanced legislation. Think if we can pass rules that can tell the mob bosses: look, whatever crime you commit, the minimum sentence will be 20 years, 20 years to life! We would break their welfare mechanism, maintain families, we would prevent that recycling that they are continuously able to implement because they have the resources to organize a turnover that democratic institutions are unable to do. We would block the possibility for those who leave the prison to resume their activity after a few days and perhaps be hit the second, the third time by the institutions of the State with a waste of energy and resources that we can no longer afford today. Think a bit in this Parliament if we can make the complaint compulsory for all economic activities with sanctions that are not classically criminal, but administrative, and with powerful incentives, never realized before, that go in the tax and contribution direction, to make of one million, one and a half million companies that today pay the lace, of the subjects of legality and development able to say an objective no, that no longer depends on their will against the mafia! I think of choices of this kind. I think the time has now come to reopen Pianosa and Asinara, to put together a law on the incandidability of those involved in mafia trials. And I think it's also possible to extend the space of action to other subversive phenomena. President Grasso has repeatedly reminded us of the need to look a little deeper at what has also happened on this side of the country. Maybe we would discover connections with the Mafia organizations and maybe we could use that methodology that history has accumulated in the wisdom of the Anti-Mafia Commission to make clarity there too, on many facts that have caused mourning, massacres and that have compromised and made our democracy opaque. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a great opportunity, even in this parliamentary term: let us ensure that this legislature has the energy and the strength to make this qualitative leap. Society is ready, the realities that operate in civil society in a design way in the field of anti-mafia demand it. So we could finally indicate that qualitative leap that would make our function noble and that would make the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission a useful and current body. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u16	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now customary for the first acts of the beginning of the parliamentary term to adopt a measure which constitutes Antimafia. We move therefore in the wake of the continuity of a commitment that has led the Chambers to question both the national and traditional mafia phenomenon and - I stress in particular this profile - on the new foreign criminal organizations, which unfortunately have installed themselves on the national territory in parallel with the migrants of their respective countries of origin. It could not be otherwise, waiting for the seriousness of the threat that the development of organized crime represents to the sovereignty of the State and to the exercise of the democratic rights of citizens, in Italy as elsewhere. The text that comes to our Assembly today is the result of a complex and shared work, which ends under the sign of unity, as happened in Montecitorio. I would just like to highlight a few very important parts. Article 1 provides for a legislative mandate and a wide range of investigative subjects: from the management of repentances to the implementation of the prison regime introduced by Article 41- bis; from the adequacy of national anti-mafia legislation to the study of changes in the phenomenon of organised crime; from the relations between mafia and politics, with particular regard to the conditioning in the choice of candidates to elected posts, to defence techniques in tenders. It is still important to stress that it will also investigate foreign mob associations, as I said before, as they operate on the Italian territory, as is also done by various legislators. Article 2, which deals with the composition of the Commission itself, is also important. The idea of naming 25 Members and 25 senators prevailed to make it even more solid and representative than originally intended. Article 4 contains provisions on the rules governing hearings and extends the application of certain rules of procedural law to the Commission's activities. It is then made clear - and this is also very important - that it is impossible to challenge the Commission with regard to the secrecy of the State with regard to facts falling within its competence. There is also a rule that requires documents and documents by introducing a system of exceptions to an article in the Code of Criminal Procedure, so as to allow the acquisition of procedural documents concerning ongoing proceedings. It is therefore possible to refer the internal organisation of the Commission to a regulation. Another important aspect is the accelerated procedure of entry into force, in order to facilitate as much as possible the prompt recovery of the Commission. As a Group of the North League and Autonomy we will certainly support the approval of the measure that we consider to be in line with the interest of ascertaining the extent of the mafia phenomenon, old and new, and the appropriateness of the measures taken to combat it. However, it is regrettable that, more than 150 years after the unification of Italy, the unitary State has not yet managed to come to the head of the problem, which in some respects has also expanded in terms of areas of insistence. In this regard, we would like to point out that it was the North League, in past legislation, that fought for the scope of the investigation of Antimafia to be extended to the regions outside the territory of those traditionally infested by the great organized crime, and not only to take account of the activities of the Chinese triads. We then take the opportunity to claim to a Legist minister, Roberto Maroni, now at the head of our movement, the most excellent results in terms of contrast to malavitous infiltrations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For this reason and because we share the measure as a whole, I already announce that the League will vote in favour of the approval of the reconstruction of Antimafia. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u18	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us is the setting up of the 10th Anti-Mafia Commission. In the past, with their reports, the Commissions have made an effort, as well as cognitive, to propose how to adapt the regulatory framework to changes in the structure of the Mafia organisations. The Mafia and the Mafia, ours and the other expressions of organised crime, remain a serious problem of Italian society and, therefore, of Italian democracy. Since the Commission was established and endowed with powers of inquiry, in the 10th legislature, and then all those who followed it, the various criminal organizations have cultivated old and new traffic, preserving and acquiring positions of power, especially on the economic field, also through heavy conditioning in the political and institutional life. Today, in the framework of the general crisis that the Italian and European economies are going through, with heavy negative effects also on the financial condition and the capacity for action of the State, the interpenetration between crime and economic activity has become a knot of extreme importance, especially for the Mezzogiorno - it has emphasized the president Napolitano last year in the bunker hall of Palermo, to the ceremony of commemoration of the judge Giovanni Falcone - and it has become a suffocating way for every possibility of development in those regions, in which the crisis favors the predatory action of the criminal clans. These tend to be job seekers, whether irregular or in black, in a context of growing and desperate unemployment. The Mezzogiorno risks being tightened in this past node, in this vicious circle just when Italy needs a new contribution, the resources and the potential of these regions through their decisive exploitation, in a climate of legality to open the way for a more intense, new, different and sustainable national development. The fight against mafias, therefore, is now more than ever a priority for the whole country. If, however, we must continue with determination and tenacity along a tracked path and if we do not underestimate the persistent gravity of the pressure and the mafia threat, we can and must also feel stronger than in the past, precisely because of the increasing mobilization of consciences and energies that has come to be realized over time, for the moral heritage, for the legislative and ordinamental innovations on the level of international projection that have left us men like Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino. We must also feel stronger because the action of the State, supported by a wider support of opinion even among young people, has struck very hard blows to the mafia in recent years. This is also why a more general climate of sharing and responsibility is needed in Italy today. The complexity of the problems to be faced, precisely in order to reopen a prospect of recovery and economic and social development, requires an effort of cohesion in the sense of a supportive, proactive, united approach to such serious issues with which to deal. Those who remember the experience of the years 1992 and 1993, those who remember the criminal attack and the mafia massacres know that they also coincided then with serious political difficulties, with an acute financial crisis, with a clear weariness of the institutional fabric. For this reason we remain of the opinion that ensuring stability of government, putting reform processes in place must also be the most necessary, most widely shared and supported commitment at the present stage. This is the condition that can allow young people - as it was in the hope that President Napolitano addressed them in the bunker room last year - to get on the field as soon as possible, opening doors and windows if you want to keep out of it, to renew politics and society. I would remind you that Commissioner Cecilia Malmström visited our southern regions last year and in a publication entitled "Daily struggle against the mafia," he recalled that it is the daily struggle that shows and proves that anti-mafia is stronger than the mafia itself. There is a lot to do - it has emphasized the European commissioner - but the activity that has seen in the southern regions of our Country is really impressive and exciting. This is what we must try to continue, with determination and tenacity, by setting up the Anti-Mafia Commission in this legislature as well. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting for yet another anti-Mafia Commission. We must certainly prepare for this very important task by making an assessment of what the Anti-Mafia Commission has been in our country. The evaluation of the work, functions and results of the Anti-Mafia Commission can only be made of lights and shadows: lights when the Anti-Mafia Commission meant turning the spotlight in this country at a time when there was no talk of the Mafia, when the relations between the Mafia and politics were hidden, when even the same word Mafia could not be uttered. However, those achieved in the Mafia Commissions that have succeeded over time are also weak results, poor, not up to expectations. We have a duty, then, when we are about to approve it, to rethink this fundamental instrument. That is why the 5 Star Movement had tabled its own proposal and its own amendments: to strengthen the object of the Anti-Mafia Commission. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we have a fundamental task, which is not to replace us or to overlap with the work of the judiciary, but to use our powers to understand where the mob is going before it carries out serious acts. Unfortunately, the judiciary and law enforcement intervene when the damage has already been done, when the crimes have already been committed, when it is too late. The possibility that a Commission of inquiry into the Mafia gives us is to take action before serious events are carried out. At this moment, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the 5 Star Movement, it is essential and indispensable to turn the spotlight on the mafia, in particular on the mafia operating in finance. It is absolutely alarming the fact, which has also been highlighted by other interventions, that the main economic and financial activity of this country has become the money laundering of mafias and crime. It's a devastating fact. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the 5 Star Movement, the fact that our country is in crisis and is devastated by corruption is not disconnected from the Mafia problem, because they are closely related phenomena that support each other. Mr President, with the anti-Mafia Commission we must also look to the past: if we do not solve the great problems of our past (such as investigations into the massacres never punished at all, whose true senders have not been identified), we will not be able to understand the reasons for the facts that poison the present. We also have a duty to look at our present, which is made up of a country in crisis, where mafias take advantage of economic difficulties to devour the fabric of our businesses. Kneeling companies fall into the hands of the Mafia, fall into the hands before the wear and tear, then even of the recycling activities, and this unfortunately happens in most of the regions of Italy, not only in the South: it happens in the economic and industrial fabric of the North, which is devastated by it. The Expo has been the subject of Mafia attention, the TAV is under Mafia investigation: there is no great work, there is no economic activity of this country that does not fall under the clutches of the Mafia. We must ask ourselves, then, to what extent the Mafia is able even to paralyse the efforts of any government, of any majority to restore the economy of this country. If we don't look at this problem in the face, we won't be able to do the service we have to do for our country, to make it a better country. Surely we must turn the spotlight on another little-investigated aspect of the Mafia, on which the 5 Star Movement has focused its attention: the Mafia, indeed the Mafias (because they are no longer only those of our country) have become a geopolitical phenomenon, they operate like the States and are the first problem for Western democracies. This means that the mafias are now able in democratic countries, through free elections, with the force of violence and dirty money, to establish criminal governments. Whole nations, even within Europe, have fallen into the hands of the Mafia. This is a fact that we cannot ignore and that is why we tried to broaden - and we do so with our amendments - the subject of the Commission's investigation. Mr President, let me remind you here of a great man, General Dalla Chiesa, who said that if he had only looked at Palermo in the fight against the Mafia, he would never have understood the phenomenon. Unfortunately, we must say today that if we look only at Italy, we will not be able to understand the phenomenon in its entirety. Mr President, we shall therefore vote in favour of the establishment of a parliamentary anti-mafia committee, with the hope that it will be able to be effective on a fundamental action, namely the eradication of the mafia, so that it does not happen as in the past that the judiciary operates only, and in a solitary way, with pruning operations, when the damage is now done. And the first place where the mob can be eradicated is Parliament, Mr President, because the mobs are fed up with the bad policy that supports them! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If not, they would only be bandits and gangsters, while these, Mr President, are neither bandits nor gangsters. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u23	Mr President, our Group also believes that the anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission has to do, and that it has to do as quickly as possible, perhaps on the basis of the text that we have received from the House of Members, where I believe it has been voted by a very large majority, by all the groups, and which is now before this House. We believe that any amendment to this text would lead to an incomprehensible delay. We have heard from the members of the Groups who have spoken so far about necessity and urgency, two concepts that do not agree with referrals, especially if they could then have as a consequence that we have to arrive even in the autumn for the establishment of the anti-mafia Commission, which we believe is appropriate in the number of members and in its functions. The Commission must not only deal with all the mafia phenomena, but also with all those criminal associations that have colonized our country. We are not unaware that there is a Chinese community and a Chinese mafia; we are not unaware that colonization of foreign communities has led to associations of Albanians, North Africans or Romanians, who are carrying out organized tasks and ends that go to crush against the common life. We do not miss the great money that these associations move: someone has spoken of 17 billion, other colleagues have spoken of 50 billion. Everyone, in short, has a lot of money to support these organizations, mobsters or criminals, domestic or foreign: what is certain is that it is an incredible business. It is obvious that this Commission must work at 360 degrees and it is therefore, I repeat, to be set up quickly. The rapporteur did an excursus on what happened in previous legislation. We started from the third legislature, back in 1958, with a bill by Senator Parri, to arrive then to the so-called law Rognoni-La Torre, on the basis of the emotion generated by the assassination, on April 30, 1982, by Pio La Torre, until the measures adopted in the successive legislatures. The work that this Commission must do, with the 25 Senators who will be part of it, is important, but it must not be limited to traditional mafias, because it is the international criminal associations that have colonized Italy. This Commission must be plastic, it must understand that the phenomenon is being modernised and it can also affect other regions, beyond those of the South. The same political colonization of certain regions always occupied by the same coalition can lead to similar behaviours. What is the difference between paying lace in the regions of the South or being obliged to have a card or to fund that party in other regions? [[Applause from Senator Rossi Luciano.]] There is no difference: it is a similar behaviour that must be eradicated. There are no associations or mafias of series A or of series B: they are all the same those that oblige entrepreneurs, in one way or another, to pay the lace. This, of course, is also valid from a political point of view. A report by the then National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, in an interview in April last year, considered project financing and pointed out that perhaps that was a tool to encourage the lure of criminal associations. He was right: in many regions this is the only instrument used to bypass public procurement rules. This, according to our Group, is to be considered, because the Commission cannot stop at the finger, but it must look at the moon that the finger indicates, otherwise we would be fools. On the basis of these considerations, we believe, first of all, that this Commission should be established as soon as possible. Therefore, the adoption of amendments today means that the interests of the Commission of Inquiry should not be taken into account, but that the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry should be delayed at an inappropriate time (as I have already said, it could also be achieved in October). New activities must also be analysed. Those who preceded me to talk about mafia and politics are right, because the same politics in certain areas may have attitudes that are not different from those of criminal associations. Someone might say that they don't kill, but they don't, you have to look deep. Of course, we believe that the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, including foreign ones, should be extended to all similar behaviours carried out not only in certain regions, but in all regions. We know perfectly - as the rapporteur has emphasized - that in the Centre-North are the Liguria, in the first place, and Tuscany, in the second place, the regions in which it is not collected, but where obviously investments are made; the collection is made in the regions of the South, but the investments and the business are made in the regions of the North and above all in Tuscany, in Emilia and in Liguria (the Lombardy and Veneto regions have passed in the second row: I believe that they have already been enough squeezed from the point of view of the interests). It is therefore necessary to evaluate this aspect in order not to have the blind eye and to do what they have done in previous legislation, because, as the rapporteur and the previous colleagues said, it was especially in the 1980s, and specifically in 1982, that we actually got to give praise to this Commission and to what it was able to produce. We will not fail to vote in favour, with the considerations we have made. We believe that anyone who wants to refer this measure back to the House is not interested in this Commission, but in the Mafia. On the other hand, there are those who say - I do not know if it is true, but in medicine it is so - that when there are antibodies, there is the disease: I would not want someone to hide behind the Anti-Mafia Commissions to favor the Mafia associations. [[Applause from the LAG and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u24	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u25	Mr President, by a lucky coincidence, you will already know, General Mori has been acquitted. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] It's important, because this country needs to know that thieves are with thieves and guards are with the guards, without confusing or creating dusts that spoil public opinion. I'm not saying that at random. I was particularly impressed by Falcone's interview with journalist Padovani, when he said: The Mafia is not invincible at all. It is a human fact and as all human facts have a beginning and will also have an end. But do you know that living Falcone was accused of being involved with the mob? He was accused, even authoritatively, of not wanting to counter that phenomenon. I know this mechanism. I can explain it with an autobiographical note. I arrived in Parliament in 1992. When they indicted Gava, Andreotti and others at the same time, I wrote by my hand an exhibit, seen by former colleague D'Onofrio and lawyer Coppi, to the attorney in Rome to ask to deepen if by chance there was no one who thought to destabilise the institutions accusing those who had been at the top of the state. Well, to my great surprise, six months later - De Gennaro can testify to this - I found myself in a report by the DIA, according to which the Mafia had infiltrated Parliament so much that it had written this exposed to the prosecutor's office in Rome. I called Parisi, asked if they had gone crazy, explaining my origins (born and lived Modena) and clarifying that the idea was mine. Then it was erased, but this is to say how we have to stand on the ground and know that organized crime is fought with the carabinieri, the police and the judiciary, who must be inflexible in a work of repression. Then we have to see what we can do, what Parliament can do with the anti-Mafia Commission to accompany this action of repression, of course with laws, such as those I have always voted for, on hard prison and on no relaxation of tension with regard to the repressive phase. But there is not only the repressive phase: there is also the preventive phase. And this is where the pain begins. I would like to know, from an administrative point of view, how an honest entrepreneur does, how an honest politician does, how an honest administrator in the famous North infiltrated by the mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta to relate - because I think there are - with the Sicilians, the bell towers and the honest Calabrians. It's no longer possible. I denounced him in this House and I continue to denounce him. I have also written it to my southern colleagues: any entrepreneur, with the white list mechanism and with the preventive mechanism, can be banned and have damage for tens of millions of euros, not because he has committed a crime, not because there has been a specific fact, but because in the phase of sociological prevention, on the basis of family relationships and symptomatic facts, you can come to configure a possible danger of mafia infiltration. In money, do we want to translate this principle? I speak on Mondays in the office with a person of Calabrian, Campania or Sicilian origin: he comes out of the office, goes to the bar and talks with another person who in police or police reports is related to one who has relations with certain people in Crotone. Well, my company gets the anti-mafia ban. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. The mechanisms are as follows: you have hired workers and labourers; this labourer may also be honest, but he has a girlfriend who is the daughter of a boss and was seen accompanying her father-in-law to the hospital in Modena. There has also been a controversy within our party about the inscription of people with a southern name. I was Undersecretary at the time and I was by the prosecutor of the Republic, the commissioner, the prefect and the commander of the carabinieri to say: yes, I am not stupid, I also saw that there are some names that I remember hearing in court, maybe chatting. Here they are: can you tell me, since they want to join the party, precautionaryly if I do well to register them or not? The answer was: I'm sorry, Senator, but we can't give you any information, because there's privacy. When an entrepreneur hires, if he has a relationship with one of these companies, can he ask for information? No, because they don't give them to him for privacy. And if you have a relationship with one of these companies, what happens? The Ge.Co of Modena has hired three Calabrians (father and two children), one the owner and the other employees of a truck company in possession of all the certificates anti-mafia and with everything in order. Then, according to this mechanism, it is discovered that these in Crotone are 'parents of', the Modena company is banned, can no longer work or receive payments, while the Calabrian company continues to work because in possession of certificates anti-mafia. This is the picture of the situation that we set in motion. Fortunately, the government has accepted an agenda and should remedy it at the end of the month. I am referring to this morning's news from the "Gazzetta di Modena": "White list": 3,000 companies waiting for an ok. It will take twenty years to escape all requests in prefectures. Because we make the laws, but the prefecture of Modena, then, to examine hundreds and hundreds of applications for admission to the white list, without sufficient staff, will take us years. We are in absolute arbitrariness: that enterprise is banned, that other perhaps not, as I have pointed out here. On the other hand, Vice-Minister Bubbico also kindly told me that it is true and that in Florence there were kidnappings, corruption and concussions: there really was a connection with the 'ndrangheta, demonstrated with a intervention of the judiciary, that in other cases there was not. Then I asked why this coopsette continued to work in all the yards of Lower Modenese and nobody said anything: because - the prefect and the vice minister Bubbico have replied - the investigation is still under way. It'll take months and months. And in the meantime? In the meantime they work and the others are forbidden. Then, if you think that in the North the fight against the Mafia is done with these instruments, it is inevitable that no one will hire anyone who comes from those areas anymore, it is inevitable that no one will have more relations with companies coming from those areas. I ask my colleagues: can the honest people who are in Calabria, Sicily and Campania, who are not malicious or who have made a mistake once in their lives, not even go to work as labourers or workers? What are they gonna do, do drugs? Do we want to pose these problems when we legislate? It takes inflexibility with criminals, but also a system that allows, in economic, social and political relations, to know who you are talking to, while the institutions tell you that you cannot know it, but, a posteriori, always on the basis of these sociological investigations, of kinship and police relations, you can find yourself faced with a reality like the one I have described. As it is happening to the entrepreneurs of the areas affected by the earthquake, who already have a million problems on their own and who are not being helped, but aggravated. I said and I repeat here in front of the President that for me this is not the fight against the mafia and the 'ndrangheta: this is to help the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra. It is killing the healthy economic fabric, owners and known companies. If you go to read the last ban, which concerns the company Bianchini, the owner is healthy and clean, the property is clean, but was seen wandering a Calabrian entrepreneur in their yard. He doesn't have any relationship with them, but he was wandering there with his first and last names. The owner of the company retorted: if this came up after the earthquake, did the tour of the seven churches to find work and also entered our construction site, what do we have to do with it? Good question. But in the meantime it has been banned; they do not receive payments and are likely to fail. So I ask the President and colleagues that the anti-Mafia Commission should not overlap with the judiciary, the police and the carabinieri. If you will excuse me, it does not even rewrite the story of 22 years ago and the massacres of 1992 and 1994, because perhaps that is not your job. There are more urgent things: there is today's mafia, today's camorra, today's 'ndrangheta' and today's Chinese mafias to fight; and how do we fight them on the ground if we do not study effective means and tools? On the issues I have mentioned, I hope that in that decree law it is written that, before banning a company, at least the clues are concordant, concrete and convergent, that it is shown that something has disturbed the board of directors, that there is an element of competition that is injured, that there is a threat, an attack, a movement of capital and not only the fact that someone is a relative of the company. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I pray that this instrument will not be used for political struggles, even in the South. I appeal to my southern friends because in some way I see satisfaction in the South when one political faction is struck with respect to another, so there is the satisfaction that the political struggle also goes through these mechanisms. Seen from the North, however, it is not so, because from the North the judgment risks being negative as a whole towards all those who have relations with enterprises or who hire people or have collaborations with companies coming from the South of Italy. Now, I have never been a Legist (and I will never be a Legist because I have a different culture), but you cannot indirectly agree with the League: certain attitudes give rise to a position of contrast or mistrust towards the southern ones that even the League did not dream of having. I wanted to say this, Mr President, in the belief that this Commission will really be able to deal with and effectively resolve these problems. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate it was recalled that we are approving the Sixth Act on the introduction of the Anti-Mafia Commission. It is shared and common awareness that this is not a ritual passage. I wish it were possible not to set up the Anti-Mafia Commission: we would have arrived in another Italy! Instead, we are here, and we must be here as citizens and as representatives of the institutions! And we must be there every day, because the battle against the Mafia must be daily and uninterrupted, conducted with all the lawful instruments, and must result in an unceasing and tireless action to be conducted on several fronts. It is a battle that must be waged with attention to future perspectives, but also with attention to historical perspective, because also the truth about the massacres of state, the events of '91-'92 and, more generally, the relationship between mafia and politics is important and - I would like to say - no less important than the acts of arrest of the fugitives; it is no less important than all the other actions in this area. It is also necessary to reconstruct history in order to eradicate this phenomenon. The battle against the Mafia must be waged throughout Italy, against the Italian, Chinese and Russian mafias, with awareness of the infiltrations to the North and the Centre and with the related concern for the distortions of economic processes, financial activities and pollution of public decision-making processes. This battle is a battle of social civilization, of value, but also a battle for European Italy. The approval of the Anti-Mafia Commission must not be a reason to feel good about it, but it must be an opportunity to reflect. We can't call each other outside. We can't just feel like victims. We must reflect on what the inefficiency of the system has fostered; on what the economic and social crisis and the lack of work and hope in the future for entire generations also involve in terms of aiding this phenomenon; on what the loss of ethics and values has caused, on the weakness of politics with the minuscule, on the load of inefficiencies and illegality that it has caused. We must, therefore, be aware of the need to relaunch politics with the capital "P." The fight against the Mafia certainly needs a policy capable of independence, autonomy, courageous and strong choices; a credible policy at the ethical level and at the level of the proposal that can guide the country's recovery. Let us remember this, today more than ever; at this time so difficult and so uncertain. Finally, I want to thank not only the judiciary and law enforcement, but also Libera and all the voluntary associations that every day witness and fight the mafias on the field, with open face and courage. How can we fail to recognize in these testimonies and in these examples the value of horizontal subsidiarity, of integration between the action of powers and society; the valorization of society itself must be a primary task of politics? [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u28	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u29	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u30	Mr President, I give up my reply. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] because it seems to me that the senators and representatives of the groups involved have all expressed - with different nuances, as it is understandable - the importance and urgency of starting the new anti-Mafia Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u31	The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u32	I also give up my reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u33	The Undersecretary would also deserve equal applause. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u34	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the text of the draft law in title, and the related amendments submitted by the Assembly, shall express, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion which shall not preclude it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u35	We shall now proceed to the agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to present the G100 agenda, although it is linked to Amendment 2.2, which has been declared inadmissible by the 1st Commission, so this agenda will be withdrawn. However, we are pleased to illustrate it in a few words, also because the colleague of the 5 Star Movement who spoke earlier had already pointed it out. The G100 agenda was about the quality of participation in the Anti-Mafia Commission: we can foresee the best tools and areas of operation of the Anti-Mafia Commission, but if we do not first watch over the quality of its components, we will not go very far. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the G101 agenda, however, we want to commit the Government and Parliament to focus on the analysis of the Mafia phenomenon, following the directions that have been indicated, i.e. with reference to the changes experienced by the Mafia system (oriented towards economic and financial activities and their penetration into the economic fabric of the Centre and Northern Italy) and to the evaluation of the consequences of the geopolitical activities of the Mafia organisations. Let us remember that our own mob organisations are rooted in many European and non-European countries. Suffice it to mention, for example, the very well-known case of the 'ndrangheta, which has a very strong roots in Australia, where there have even been excellent victims: an Australian Member of the Parliament dealing with the mafia has been the victim of a white lupara. Therefore, we need to direct the investigation activity and the Government also to the analysis of the mafia phenomenon in the overall framework of its geopolitical activity. We reaffirm our firm intention to shed light on the massacres of the Mafia and on all the massacres still unpunished in our country and above all we believe it is fundamental, all the more so in this moment of serious economic crisis, to intervene on the assets and assets confiscated from the Mafia. Other agendas of the day have been presented in which the issues are better exposed, but here it is a fundamental point: in our country the mafia assets are enormous, while in recent years the agencies responsible for confiscation and investigation (the DIA) have been depowered. On the agenda we are debating and the others who will follow, we are asking for these agencies to be strengthened, and above all for the apprehension of these goods to be effective.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u37	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u38	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G101, I turn to the government's assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u39	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u40	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G101 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G101 agenda presented by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). (Some senators report that the electronic device is not working.) The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 825, 93, 656, 722 and 827
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u43	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, my card did not work, but I would have liked to have voted in favour of this agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have to think maybe she demagnetized some cards.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u46	FATTORINI (PD). My card didn't work either. I wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u49	CARDINALI (PD). Mr President, I would also like to point out my vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u52	Fazzone (PdL). I could not vote either, but I wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u55	D'ONGHIA (SPI). Mr President, I wanted to point out that I voted against the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u58	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have not been able to vote against. The same is true of my colleagues in the Council and Stefani, who have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u61	FLORIS (PdL). I too, Mr President, have not been able to vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u64	MARINELLO (PdL). Mr President, I too wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u65	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u66	Mr President, I should like to briefly describe Amendment No 1,200. It is understandable that the setting-up of this parliamentary committee of inquiry places the emphasis, especially on murders, on the two-year period 1992-1993. Moreover, already during the general debate which took place in this Chamber a moment ago, we have heard a number of fellow senators who have spoken calling for an extension to 360 degrees, in all respects, of the investigations and investigations of the institution of the anti-Mafia Commission. We propose this amendment because, whenever it occurs or comes to the anniversary of a massacre - I am not just referring to those of 1992-1993 - there are invocations or requests that come from the family members of the victims but also from society, from the parties and from very high-level institutional representatives so that we can fully ascertain the personal responsibilities that in many cases have not been established, but above all to verify the causes and responsibilities for which these identifications have not been reached. We are fully aware that the matter is sensitive and that proposing an amendment in this area, in the second reading, could, even if very little, slow down the time of the adoption of this extremely important law; moreover, the need to identify the responsibilities of massacres and events related to the subversive and mafia phenomena that have occurred or occurred in Italy is a real necessity. I would remind you that the same first speech in this House by this President of the Senate called for the use of a Commission of massacres to verify what we are asking for. In the face of this prospect, not only of the President of the Senate but also of other institutional summits, there was a choice that must be made, namely the establishment of a new and autonomous Commission so-called massacres, or the inclusion in this bill, among the tasks of the Commission, also of the one relating to the identification of the facts of the massacres and the responsibilities for the failure to identify these phenomena in the subject matter of change and mafia and, therefore, an insertion for the object, as we propose with our amendment. In this draft law there was also the possibility of proposing an ad hoc Committee, as had been done on other occasions. We believe that this deepening and this issue should be assigned to the Commission today to set up, while taking into account the timing and the risk of slowing down the approval of the Commission's draft law. We are submitting the decision to the rapporteur and to the House and we are calling for a very thorough and thorough assessment of the matter, given that, in the final analysis, if we leave out an amendment of this kind, we fail to go into its subject matter, because the draft law, as it is presented, is essentially intended to focus on the period 1992-1993. That's the request. I believe that we can look at all the points that have been raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 1.2 to reiterate the importance that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias can assess the geopolitical consequences of the activities of national and foreign Mafia criminal organisations. At this time and in this globalization that we are living in so many ways, criminal activity also extends. In some Member States, mafia criminal activity has even been able to enter the political fabric and thus exercise dominion, which also involves geopolitical consequences which the Commission should take into account. It should therefore also have a somewhat international view of this phenomenon, although all the premises to which Mr Casson referred are true with regard to a second reading of such a measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to highlight both the agenda G1,100 and G1,102, which, although similar, relate to different issues. The first, on which I draw attention, commits the Government to involve the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission whenever there are rationalization or revision of police or law enforcement authorities. This is important because the anti-Mafia Commission should be able over time to have a clear picture of the organised criminal situation and could help to avoid possible removals of garrisons that, on the other hand, become essential, seen as a whole. On the other hand, the agenda G1.102 refers specifically to the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate, which, unfortunately, in recent years has suffered particular cuts and reductions in specialized staff and also in the salaries provided for the personnel working in that sector. With this agenda we ask the Government to commit that the Anti-Mafia Investigative Directorate also in its district offices, be always attentive and that in a particular way a strengthening with new forces coming from all the police forces, contributing, if necessary, also with possible new recruitment of personnel.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u69	Mr President, I would like to outline the agenda for G1,101, because we believe that it is not only appropriate, but also necessary for Parliament to take active action against the Mafia and criminal organisations, as well as the fact that the relationship between politics and organised crime is one of the most disturbing aspects. Therefore, the presence of the State in the territories at risk is mandatory. For this reason we consider absurd what is provided by a decree of the Head of the Police on 3 June 2013 with which it was decided to close the operating fixed post of Casapesenna, Municipality located in the territory of the Agro aversano, center and seat of the most dangerous criminal clans, where the aforementioned police post represents for the citizens the only bulwark of the legality present on the territory. A position absolutely necessary, ours, which comes from simple considerations about the curious need, according to the decree, to optimize the use of the resources available in terms of cost-effectiveness, efficiency and effectiveness. These are cuts which, in essence, according to the decree, would not undermine the operational capacity of the State Police on the territory, which would be guaranteed by the close presence of the detached section of Casal di Principe's mobile team and the Public Security Commissioner of Aversa. In short, a measure that seems written by people outside the history of a territory, in which that fixed place, since its establishment in 1996, played a decisive role in the investigations and operations that led to the capture of capiclan of the calibre of Schiavone, Zagaria and Iovine; a measure that touches the absurd by virtue of questionable criteria of economicity. Therefore, we ask the Government not only to immediately withdraw the effectiveness of the decree of suppression and to keep alive the operating fixed place of Casapesenna, but also to increase the current organic endowment, consisting of 24 units, of which only one inspector, and to stabilize the personnel who work, moreover on mission, now for five years (therefore, with a consequent reduction of expenditure). Finally, given that the only hypothetical savings resulting from the closure of this police post would be due to the location of the building that houses the offices, it is asked to consider the possibility of using which premises of the same offices one of the numerous buildings confiscated from the camorristic clan. This would allow to operate in the perspective of saving and reducing expenditure, moreover, such operation could assume in the territory of the Agro have a high symbolic value. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u70	Mr President, with the agenda G1.103 we propose to commit the Government to withdraw urgently the provision relating to the closure of the anti-mafia investigation department at Malpensa airport and to strengthen the office, increasing resources for personnel, means and training, in order to ensure effective and widespread action to combat crime, especially in view of Expo 2015. No one will escape that contracts linked to the major event are at high risk of mafia infiltration, as underlined by the National Anti-Mafia Directorate in a recent report and as stated by the President of the Council of Ministers himself, on the occasion of his visit to Milan on 6 May. In view of this, how is the closure of the DIA information center located at an airport such as the Varese airport, which represents the main crossroads and access point for the international event? The location in Malpensa has a logistical and operational need particularly important for investigative purposes. The deletion of the information centre is all the more incomprehensible if account is taken of the efficiency with which the core, established on 1 June 2000, has operated in recent years, making a significant contribution to the investigations conducted by the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate in Lombardy. The economic reasons for closure are also surpassed by recent events. Remember that the premises in use to the nucleus of Malpensa have been supplied in concession from SEA SpA at a cost of 3.500 euros. The Regional Council of Lombardy also approved, on 28 May, a motion in which it expressed the will to share in covering the fixed expenses of the garrison. We therefore believe that it is not possible at this stage to delete a key office in order to ensure collective security. The government's counter-mafia activity must be strengthened and not diminished. I quote Senator Giovanardi here: if you want effective instruments, I believe that this is one of them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u73	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to appreciate the content of the agenda G1.103 and propose that the Northern League Group subscribe to it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u76	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I have listened with due attention to the speech made by Senator Lumia, former President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, and therefore he is an experienced colleague with regard to the purpose of the bill that is being debated in this House today. The intervention made by Senator Casson, on the other hand, makes me better understand Senator Lumia's intervention, also because he explained with completeness, attention and professionalism - if professionalism can be spoken of than the parliamentary mandate - the purposes of amendment 1,200. I have tried to understand why I would not want to subtract my vote from the adoption of the amendment, also because it contains the word'stragi', a very important word, and I remember that even President Grasso in his speech in this House referred to the need for Italy to finally clarify the reasons and the modalities of some massacres that, after many years, are a dark page of our democracy. However, I have doubts that the amendment does not achieve the objectives that have been set out, and I would therefore ask the House, the rapporteurs, the Government, Senator Lumia and Senator Casson if they do not feel that they need to clarify its aims better. In fact, Amendment 1,200 has three subordinates and three conjunctions. It says first of all: "to investigate the reasons why the causes and responsibilities of the massacres have not been identified" (and so far it could appear ultraroneo because of the massacres of 1992-1993 we are already talking about in the text of the law, as Senator Casson has already pointed out). Then, through a conjunction, it is added: the facts related to subversive phenomena, and here we could stop. There is, however, another conjunction, and it is added: mafias in Italy. The Committee for Legislation and also the bicameral Commission for legislative simplification has long discussed the need for too many conjunction in legislative texts and for respect for the completeness of the Italian language. If you, Senator Casson, expunged the two "e"s, the amendment would read this way: to investigate the reasons why the causes of the mafia phenomena in Italy have not been identified. At this point, the amendment would be supplementary, for the part concerning the causes and responsibilities of the mafia phenomena in Italy. Therefore, if the objective is to establish a link between the phenomenology of massacres and the mafia, two sentences should be used and not a sentence with three conjunctions within. Therefore, since I believe that this issue is of enormous importance, I repeat that its professionalism, in the sense I mentioned earlier, should lead this House to adopt an amendment that is written, not better - I do not allow myself to say that - but otherwise.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u79	D'ADDA (PD). Mr President, I believe that the agenda for G1.103 is absolutely acceptable with regard to our territory. I understand that there may be a request for an increase in the presence and, therefore, also a greater cost; but it is certainly not conceivable, in the most absolute way, that the garrison of the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate (DIA) be removed from Malpensa, which at this moment and in recent years has given extraordinary results precisely for the cancer of the infiltration, which has manifested itself and which has objectively given, even as far as the judiciary can agree, positive results regarding the investigations and the blows inflicted on the phenomenon itself, and which has seen the phenomenon emerge in a profound and negative way. I therefore fully subscribe to this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u82	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, I would like to invite Senators Lumia and Casson to consider maintaining Amendment 1,200, because it would delay the establishment of the Anti-Mafia Commission. This in the consideration that the text approved by the House, in Article 1 (f), clearly reads: "to investigate the relationship between mafia and politics, both as regards its articulation in the territory (...) and as regards its manifestations that, in subsequent historical moments, have determined crimes and massacres of a political-mafioso character." There is everything in this formulation approved by the House. Already the text approved in the House could allow what amendment 1,200 proposes, but the latter, as it is formulated, seems to give the Commission a purpose that I believe is dangerous. There are already contradictory judges and judgments, even today, in matters of mafia and investigation; going to investigate causes and responsibilities would mean having to redo all the trials. I believe that the letter (f) approved by the House of Deputies allows the anti-Mafia Commission the broadest and broadest scope in order to assess what President Grasso pointed out at the time of its installation: the reasons for the massacres, not the individual responsibilities, which are not the responsibility of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u85	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, I am speaking only in order to represent to this House and to all Members the inadmissibility, in my opinion, of all the agendas which provide for the abolition or establishment of police officers and DDA. These measures, which relate to the organisation and the judicial offices on the territory, are also probably shared by me, in terms of the opportunity to keep a police garrison alive, but this does not exclude that I must necessarily observe the existence of an inadmissibility, because it is out of the question. What we are approving, in fact, is a law establishing the Anti-Mafia Commission: we cannot, with this law, ask the government, through agendas, to keep this or that police office alive, even if, I repeat, the reasons can also be shared.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u88	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I was concerned that the aim of this Commission was, rather than discovering what, for example, the Palermo process, which has just begun, should find out in terms of what happened twenty-two years ago, that of analyzing the phenomenon of criminality organized today, in 2013: what mafia, camorra and 'ndrangheta are doing today. This amendment, on the other hand, runs the risk of worsening the situation, because, as it is written, it widens the field even more: when it speaks of massacres and of subversive phenomena, must it also include Piazza Fontana, Moro, Ustica? It is legitimate, the President has spoken about it, the Head of State has spoken about it. A Commission of inquiry will then be set up into the massacres which, if Parliament so wishes, will be examined, perhaps also by calling on the magistrates who for thirty years have investigated those massacres and those facts, the reasons why there has not yet been, in many cases, a shared truth. With a diction of this kind, it is likely that this Commission, mixing the past with the present (which, as Senator Caliendo said, is not precluded, having already been foreseen in the Chamber), instead of being interested in the contrast of the mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta of today, becomes a great Commission of historical studies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u91	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I have also listened to the speeches of my party colleagues and I can also share some of the concerns that have been expressed so far. Personally, however, with regard to the sensitivity of the matter covered by the draft law that we are dealing with and to the need that there are no doubts or shadows in the text of the measure, I believe that amendment 1,200 - signed by Senators Lumia, Casson and Cirinna and others - can be accepted by the House. Moreover, it is in fact that, on more than one occasion, there has been a lack of investigation in relation to events of particular gravity, which are certainly, without a shadow of doubt, the massacres and the facts related to the subversive and mafia phenomena. Therefore, obviously awaited the content of the amending proposal, also related to the wording referred to in point (f), paragraph 1, of Article 1 (which I do not seem to be fully aware of what is stated in the amendment), I am convinced that it should be approved, both with some doubts and while realizing that such approval could lead to a slight shift in the final approval of the measure: it would be a small shift in order to improve the text of law and allow a greater scope of the powers of investigation proper to the anti-Mafia Commission. If I may allow myself, in the light of what I have said so far, I wonder whether a small correction of the amendment is not possible, essentially when it comes to the facts related to the subversive and mafia phenomena that have occurred in Italy. I understand very well what the reference in the amendment is, but the conjunction, in my opinion, can also open the door to investigations that emerge from the exquisitely subversive mafia facts. We all remember, in fact, that the aggression of terrorism was contested with reference to the massacres of 1992. But I believe that the elimination of the conjunction, without taking anything away from the text of the measure and the fullness of the powers of investigation of the Commission, is more suited to the investigative powers that we really want to give to the Commission, that is to say, essentially those mafia facts which, due to their clique and the effects they had on the very structure of the State, had in themselves the typical connotation of exversion and terrorism. To say "exversive" and "mafia" phenomena also means to allow investigations only on the subversive phenomena, which seem to me in the text as a whole to emerge from the investigations of the Anti-Mafia Commission, returning a bit to what was the old Commission slaughters. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u92	Mr President, as far as Amendments 1.1 and 1.2 are concerned, I would urge the authors to withdraw them; otherwise, the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u93	Senator Giarrusso, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation? GIARRUSSO (M5S). No, Mr President: we maintain both amendments. Mr Gotor, rapporteur. With regard to amendment 1,200, also on the basis of the debate in this House, I would urge the presenters to reformulate. This rewording could be as follows: "to verify the causes and responsibilities of the massacres and the events related to evolutionary and mafia phenomena in Italy." In this case, amendment 1,200 could be accepted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the authors whether they agree with the reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u94	Mr President, we welcome the rewording of amendment 1,200 and we point out that the law provides for the organisation of the work of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission to take place through the Committees. So there will be many Committees that will certainly work on the objectives set by the law that can hit today's mob, the one that has reorganized, the one that represents the main problem of our country. There will be, as always in the history of the Anti-Mafia Commission, committees that will investigate those events that remain open in the recent history of our country. I would point out to our colleagues that the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission uses the powers of the judiciary - strong powers, invasive powers of course - not to retake a criminal judgment, not to make the fourth degree of judgment, but to identify institutional and political responsibilities. So it is a tool of investigation and knowledge not to redo the trials, but to identify responsibilities other than criminal ones. In the history of the Commission at some times this work has been useful - as President Palma has pointed out - and I take the example of the case Impastato: while the criminal trial was under way, the Commission did another job and the two things did not touch and did not enter into conflict. We did a job that was almost unanimously approved and was recognized as one of the highest moments in the history and work of the Commission. President Grasso has invited us in recent months to extend the Commission's gaze, to select those subversive phenomena which may become the subject of inquiry by the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Committee because they are still open, they have a function and in many cases they have touched on with mafia presences, and which in any case remain the subject of greater attention than the Commission, which with a special Committee can also achieve this other important objective, without necessarily organizing a new Commission which, in the economy of Parliament and of our work, would take us far and would not help us to carry out this work well.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u97	BRUNO (PdL). Mr President, I would like to thank President Palma for his speech. In my view, we did not have time in the Commission to discuss Amendment 1,200. I would ask my colleagues, Mr Lumia and Mr Casson, if it is in their spirit (but I would also ask Mr Giarrusso, because Amendment 1,201 is of the same tenor; some words are different, but the commas and conjunctions are the same), if it is possible to rewrite it in this sense: "of the facts related to the phenomena of mafia exversion happened in Italy." If that is the spirit in which the signatories of this amendment have moved, I believe that we would give an answer to President Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u98	So there is another proposal, if I may say so, for rewording. I would ask the presenters to give their opinion on this proposal, i.e. on whether or not to delete the conjunction in the phrase 'eversive and mafia-like' or not to maintain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u101	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I also welcome the intention expressed by Mr Lumia by his scranno, and I would add that the most sensitive point of this amendment, as I also think of the next one, is that of 1,201 (I will be corrected if my colleague is wrong), which is precisely this conjunction with him. In my speech earlier I explained the need, felt in the country, in the parliamentary groups and at the highest institutional level, not to neglect the issue of the massacres, which are those aggravated under the penal code and which have their typical characterization. The presence or not of that conjunction changes substantially the task that is given to the Commission in part here, precisely because, in our view, among other things, we can no longer speak of a subversive or non-exversive mafia, as the mafia is subversive of the constitutional order. The idea of those who have proposed this amendment is precisely to leave this conjunction. On the fact that the amendment can be rewritten, according to the rapporteur, Mr Gotor, and the suggestions for simplification, by Senator Ferrara, we agree, but it should remain that conjunction between the words "eversive" and "mafiosi," perhaps limited to the question of massacres. This can be done; but the conjunction, in our view, must remain in order to diversify the hypotheses, according to the original intentions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u104	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I imagined that I had interpreted the meaning of the amendment well and I had asked for that correction, that is, to remove the conjunction 'e', precisely to avoid confusion. I note, in the light of Senator Casson's statements, that my interpretation was incorrect and that basically it would be understood by the authors of the amendment to ensure that the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, even foreign, should be concerned with those exquisitely terrorist and subversive events that have been the subject of the Commission's work in the past. And if I go to see the whole text of the draft law establishing the Commission itself, I think I can say that this reference to the subversive facts is a deviation from the scheme governing the Commission's work. In the light of what Mr Casson said, contrary to what I had just said, I am announcing my vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u107	CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, in my experience, I have always felt - and I say this to my colleagues with great serenity - that Parliament should proceed with its lead feet on the instrument of the Committees of Inquiry. In fact, what we have seen in past legislation is that the multiplication of the committees of inquiry in many ways has put in place a sort of dispersion, and not of effectiveness, in the historical and political reconstruction, with the right rigour that is required of a legislator who has the powers of the judicial authority. I was not only President of the House, but a long-standing Vice-President of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorism and the massacres at the time of the deepening of the story of Ustica, and I must frankly say that Senator Casson's intervention a little worries me, because there is no problem of positioning in this Chamber, but there is a very logical problem. The Anti-Mafia Commission - as you know very well, Senator Casson - has a power, an institutional importance and a fundamental role, and I believe that we are all interested in safeguarding it. Today, in fact, to unify in the same body the anti-Mafia Commission and the Commission massacres (because the amendment tabled by Senators Casson and Lumia and other senators very rightly tends to this) in my opinion sets up a sort - let me say this - of monster, in the sense of the extent of the matter that is being touched upon. With what risk? With the risk that this Commission will end up doing historical or other reconstructions and will disperse with respect to the necessary deepening, which is necessary, of the anti-mafia subjects, which have a pressing topicality. Honestly, if I didn't understand that correctly, after Senator Casson's intervention, I understood that very well, and I strengthen the negative judgment on this amendment. I say this to those who care that the work of the Anti-Mafia Commission is effective and efficient: we are not strengthening the Anti-Mafia Commission with this amendment, we are seriously weakening it. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups and Senator Ferrara Mario]] In fact, the best intentions are paved the way to hell and in this way we are not making the anti-Mafia Commission more efficient, but we are putting up a shantytown that you know where it starts and you do not know where it ends. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups and Senator Ferrara Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u110	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I have just listened to President Casini's speech and I address my friend and colleague Casson in a spirit of frankness and closeness. I believe that the arguments that President Casini has brought to support his suggestions are entirely acceptable. For what reasons? I believe that not so much Senator Gotor, but Professor Gotor can share the assessments I'm going to present. Those who have studied and dealt with the massacres and terrorist phenomena that have bled dramatically in our country know perfectly well the periods that characterize the scan of these events: 1969-1974, 1974-1980, to follow a phase that I would define interval, with a resumption of the phenomena in the nineties. Those who have studied and written on this subject know perfectly well that the subversive-mafioso interweaving marks the first half of the 1990s. Moreover, this interpretation, which I consider to be supported also by an essayist and a particularly significant and bodily bibliography, is fully supported by the leaders of the associations of the family of the victims, who insist on the specific typing of nature, the characteristics of the massacres and terrorism that has produced so bloody and immense mourning in history: unwritten pages of the history of this country, which certainly deserve to be filmed and investigated, but in compliance with a methodological distinction that at this point becomes a criterion of orientation in order to untangle a matter that must be kept distinct; otherwise there is a risk of overlapping, which I would personally judge improper and improper. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] This, of course, means that you can find a solution by talking [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u113	Barani (GAL). Mr President, in my speech I had already heard and I had already announced the debate that, quite rightly, my leader, Senator Ferrara, began with great correctness, and that he was taken up by President Palma. Mr Corsini and Mr Casini have then well explained a danger present in this amendment. However, a first danger is that it will lead to a postponement to November or December, i.e. four or five months, of the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry, as I said in my speech in the general debate. Above all, Mr President, it does not escape anyone that the two identical amendments, 1,200 and 1,201, come from a single direction, which does not represent the will of this Parliament. There's something we're missing. I'm a reformist culture, and I don't have theories of suspicion. Of course, bad thinking is a sin, but often you get it right. Here we want to dilute wine with water and, if we approve this amendment, we do not want to set up the Commission that we intended to create and for which the House has already voted unanimously. If we really want this Commission, if we really want an anti-Mafia Commission, and we want to fight the mafias and criminal associations, we must, as President Palma said (and I agree), vote against this amendment. I call on Members to withdraw it, because we want the Commission, we want to study it and we want it to be implemented immediately for all the reasons why we want it to be set up (including the Committees). Senator Caliendo said that, according to the letter f) of Article 1 of the bill, you can already investigate, investigate according to what was the abstract philosophy of the amendment. Amendment 1,200 is therefore to be withdrawn, because the spirit of the Commission of Inquiry would be diminished by approving it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u116	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the position of the 5 Star Movement. In this country there is a great question of truth. This great demand for truth must not fear shadowy areas or the possibility that the anti-Mafia Commission will be prevented from investigating. I would like to remind you that there are massacres and Mafia crimes still unpunished, and that it is the most serious of the Mafia crimes, after those of 1992, that have remained unpunished: the killing of the President of the Sicilian Region, Mattarella, and that of the head of the opposition. They are political crimes linked to an exversive and murderous picture that needs to be investigated. We must not be afraid to light the light on these serious events that have occurred in our country. I think that there is no problem in extending the Commission's anti-mafia investigation area to these areas as well. Otherwise, we will not be able to shed any light on what really happened in our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u117	Senator Giarrusso, since amendment 1,201, of which you are the first signatory, was initially identical to 1,200, on which there was a proposal for a rewording, I ask you whether amendment 1,201 remains identical or whether it is reworded in the same way. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I agree with what Mr Casson said about the proposed reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Therefore, amendment 1,201 is also reworded. I would ask the rapporteur to give his opinion on the reworded amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u118	Mr President, on the basis of this debate, and on the understanding that the anti-Mafia Commission is then divided into working committees, so much so that in the previous parliamentary term there were thirteen of them, and that there will therefore be the possibility of deepening everything that the Commission representatives would like to see, I would like to reword, from my final point of view, Amendment 1,200, which I propose to Senators Casson and Lumia, of which I am going to read: 'f - bis', to verify the causes and responsibilities of the massacres and the events related to the phenomena of mafia change occurring in Italy.' I look forward to hearing whether the authors accept this rewording and then proceed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I therefore ask Senators Lumia and Casson to comment on the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u119	Mr President, of course the debate is very troubled and we can express the pros and cons in detail, but then there is the risk of opening an infinite debate, which is not capable of achieving the desired result. The aim was to open up and widen the Commission's horizon without doubling the Commission's slaughters: it was possible to do so through a Committee, which clearly deepened some unsolved evolutionary phenomena in our country, in order to identify not the criminal responsibility, but the political responsibility, which is perhaps more important than the criminal one. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] I think that with the proposed rewording, the Commission can still have this margin: I therefore give you this interpretation and in this spirit I welcome the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u120	Senator Lumia therefore welcomes the rewording of the rapporteur. FERRARA Mario (GAL). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrara, before we give you the floor, we need to determine the text of the amendment to be put to the vote. I would therefore ask Senator Giarrusso, the first signatory of amendment 1,201, if he accepts the proposed reformulation. GIARRUSSO (M5S). I welcome you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rewording of the last part of the amendment is as follows: - (...) the causes and responsibilities of the massacres and the events connected with the mafia's subversive phenomena in Italy. Do I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u121	Mr President, I am once again reading the text, in the final version, which has been accepted by both Senator Lumia and Senator Giarrusso: 'f- bis', to verify the causes and responsibilities of the massacres and the events related to the phenomena of mafia exversion in Italy. CASINI (SCPI). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, the expression "verified" in the original text of the amendment is replaced by "occasion" in the original text of the amendment. Mr Gotor, rapporteur. It is only a stylistic issue, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is a formal discourse: between the two verbs, on a lexical level, there is not much difference. Mr Gotor, rapporteur. Exactly, Mr President, it is simply a matter of style: having introduced at the beginning of the amendment the verb "check" and then inserted the term "happened" in order to avoid repetition.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u122	I wanted to make sure I understood correctly. I would therefore ask the presenters whether they accept this rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u123	Mr President, I would like the rapporteur's attention. I propose that we write: "of the facts related to subversive phenomena" without the conjunction. [[Protests from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u124	This is another proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u125	LUMIA (PD). No, Mr. President. [[Comments from the PdL Group]] I ask you to be patient and we will be able to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u126	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but this is an amendment signed by Senator Lumia: will you have it reworded? We shall vote on the amendment, but in the text proposed by the rapporteur. I think the proposer has the right to prepare the text. Then, if the rapporteur's opinion is not the case, we shall be voting against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u127	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, we have been asked in the debate to remove the conjunction between the two. I think we can achieve the same improvement with this final point of synthesis that I propose. I believe that the speeches by the rapporteur and also by Senators Casini and Palma can be reconciled on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but we must do the authentic interpretation of what will come out of this House's debate. Will it be possible to ascertain the causes and responsibilities of massacres that have nothing to do with the mob, or not? That is the point that needs to be clarified. [[Comments from the PdL Group]] I am trying to ensure that Parliament's genuine will is clear, because I do not think we can play on the conjunctions. [[Comments from the PdL Group]] The draftsman of the amendment has the floor again. Please, Senator Lumia, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u129	Mr President, you know - as everyone here has understood - that the initial proposal provided for the possibility that the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission could also investigate some massacres that did not have this characteristic at first, but it is not to be excluded that this issue can also come out through the Commission's work. [[Protests from the PdL Group.]] Therefore, the addition of the subversive dimension is an important aspect and we think that eliminating the conjunction with the Mafia can be achieved the final productive solution of positive results of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u130	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but we need to put some order on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u133	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are in a position not to even have to ask for a suspension in order to clarify the text of this amendment. In fact, the statements made by the speakers show that the absolutely majority will - not exclusive - expressed by this House is that the parliamentary anti-Mafia Commission remains within its competence. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and LN-Aut groups]] exquisitely connected to the examination of mafia phenomena and, better, of mafia exversion. The fact that we add the word "exversion" is an important achievement, because we point to an arrest: it has not been many years that it is said that the mafia is a subversive power, and this also because of its links with politics. Therefore, the rewording of the rapporteur of this amendment qualifies the text and gives a stop. I believe, however, that any ambiguity which widens - in a somewhat vague way, let me say this, because otherwise this draft law would be an ircocerve - the Commission's competence. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and LN-Aut groups]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u136	Mr Gotor, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to repeat the following amendment: "to verify the causes and responsibilities of the massacres and events related to the phenomena of mafia exversion in Italy." I ask Senators Lumia and Casson to accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u137	I would ask the proposers of amendment 1,200 if they accept this rewording. LUMIA (PD). Yes, Mr President-in-Office. Senator Giarrusso, do you accept the same rewording as Amendment 1,201? GIARRUSSO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. After having made some clarity difficult, let us return to the opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u138	I call on the authors to withdraw Amendments 1.4, 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7. For the agenda, I'm sticking to the government's decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u139	Mr President, as far as Amendments 1.1 and 1.2 are concerned, I call on the authors to withdraw them, otherwise the opinion is against them. On Amendment 1,200 (text 2) I agree with the rapporteur's amendment. I call on the authors to withdraw amendments 1.4, 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7, otherwise the opinion is against. On the agenda, on the agenda, I shall return to the House. As far as the agenda is concerned, G1.101, the Government would accept this as a recommendation, given that the objective it sets itself is absolutely acceptable, but we must be careful about conflicts of competence. Therefore, I would accept it as a recommendation if reworded as an invitation to the Government to verify the possibility of withdrawing the effectiveness of the aforementioned decree, and compatible with the requirements of public finance. The same issue applies to the agenda G1.102: I would accept it as a recommendation, in line with public finance requirements. I would finally accept as a recommendation the agenda G1.103 reworded inviting the Government to verify the possibility of withdrawing the provision, and always compatible with the needs of public finance: even if there is the willingness of the Region to charge itself with the costs, we can only express this type of opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u140	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u142	On what, Senator De Cristofaro? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to speak on the amendments that have just been discussed: 1,200 and 1,201. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Cristofaro, there are already other demands. We must proceed to the amendments by amendment. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). So do I now speak on these amendments or by way of an explanation of vote? Whatever you want, ma'am. I need to speak for a minute to report a point to the Senate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). As I have a very concrete feeling that none of these amendments will be adopted, I would like to point out that, because of a substantially very incisive rewording of the original text, which is not even a conjunction, but a half conjunction in addition, we refer this text back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u143	[[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]] This means, of course, that a concrete requirement in the country, namely that the anti-mafia Commission should be launched quickly, will inevitably not be met because we are forced to do this. Now, because I think that our Upper House is sovereign just like the other, before an amendment that changes the text significantly, for goodness sake, you take 15 more days, because a significant change somehow imposes the mechanism of the perfect bicameralism in our country. But if the modification, as I understand it, is not significant at all... CASINI (SCPI). Bravo! De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). ...freely this waste of time, so we refer the text back to the other branch of Parliament when essentially the Senate says the same thing that the House said, it seems totally meaningless. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, SCPI and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u146	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u147	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 825, 93, 656, 722 and 827 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u149	Senator Ferrara, do you speak in an explanation of vote? Because we are in the process of voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u150	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I would like to thank you for your guidance on compliance with the Rules of Procedure. I am speaking on Amendment 1.2 in a way that is surreptitious to the debate, even though it has been reopened because, as you teach me, the debate is being held on the whole of the articles and then we can only speak for an explanation of vote, as I have asked you to do. Otherwise, something the President can do in terms of the Rules of Procedure because he can coordinate the work of this House as best he can, a speech has been made on Amendment 1,200. Now, the speech by President Casini allows me to make a more specifically political comment on all the amendments, and also on the amendments 1,200 and 1,201, which follow. These amendments aim to introduce a later point after point (f). But it will not escape any of those who have dealt with it - and I believe that my speech may be useful to ensure that no one in this House escapes - that what is already provided for in the text of the draft law, and therefore the absolute ulteriority of the amendments themselves, is noted. To make it more clear to all present, I read the letter (f) of Rule 1... PRESIDENT. Excuse me. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Are you interrupting me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorry, I have to interrupt you, because we are in the process of voting on Amendment 1.2. FERRARA Mario (GAL). But I am intervening in the explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In explanation of vote on this amendment. When we get to the people you're talking about, you'll have the floor. FERRARA Mario (GAL). But, Mr President, why are you suggesting what I have to say in the explanation of vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely. I don't suggest anything. I'm running an argument. FERRARA Mario (GAL). In my explanation of vote, on Amendment 1.2, I am saying... On Amendment 1.2: do not talk about other amendments, please. FERRARA Mario (GAL). But why, how do you suggest that I do not have to talk about the other amendments? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are talking about Amendment 1.2. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, on a point of order. I can also speak in the explanation of vote of the United States of America, Australia and the time it does. You cannot tell me what I have to say in an explanation of vote. In my explanation of vote... [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u151	I'm gonna call you back...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u152	FERRARA Mario (GAL). The Secretary-General is suggesting this to you, and you are well aware that there is an endless practice and discussion of the reference to the subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, we'll keep going. FERRARA Mario (GAL). As far as the subject itself is concerned, I say to you, and I read to the House, that in Article 1 (f) it is already written: 'both with regard to its manifestations which, in subsequent historical moments, have caused crimes and massacres of a political-mafia nature'. The content of this amendment should be declared inadmissible, because it is supplementary, it is already included in point (f) of Article 1! You, Mr President, should have declared it inadmissible, and for reasons which are political reasons, as stated by President Casini, we are voting on an amendment - on which I will not avoid the vote, because I will declare myself consistent with the majority - which will delay the anti-Mafia Commission by 15 days, if not more! I would like to ask the House: is it more important to broaden the task that is already planned, and therefore to make a title, or to enable the anti-Mafia Commission to act immediately? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Is communication always to regulate our political interventions, or the administration and the government? I don't think demagogy should get into what we do all the time. [[Applause from the LAG, PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u155	SANTANGELO (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u156	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I do not understand why there is such tension in this House. The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 825, 93, 656, 722 and 827 president. Amendment 1.3 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,200 (text 2), identical to Amendment 1,201 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u159	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I would like to reassure the House that there is nothing under it. This is not about communication, and we have said it very clearly and explicitly. With the original amendment 1,200, we wanted to set up within the Commission a Committee that could also intervene in the event of a change. [[Comments from the PdL Group]] Let me give you an example, but it takes a moment to calm down. Senator Ferrara, you need to stay calm. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Take it back! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrara, you've already spoken. It's no use for me to keep yelling out of his place. FERRARA Mario (GAL). She's mad at me, but everyone's yelling. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So let Senator Lumia speak. LUMIA (PD). I am able to continue, President. As you will all remember, the massacre of the Rapid 904 also saw the involvement of the Mafia organizations. You will all remember the presence of Pippo Calò, who provided the explosive for that type of massacre. Well, I note that there is division around this subject and it is true that that amendment, reworded, risks leaving the division and perhaps, in its interpretation, preclude the Commission, as set out in point (f), the possibility of intervening on subversive phenomena with those characteristics. As the parliamentary experience suggests to me that we should not be stubborn, and I learned in the fight against the Mafia that the ripening times come, I withdraw the amendment, so as to eliminate any alibi to those who are using this argument to even say that they want to block the immediate work of the Anti-Mafia Commission. This doesn't exist. [[Applause from the PdL, LN-Aut and LAG Groups]] The Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission could even go ahead and be formed with that small correction in the coming weeks, with a third reading in the House, as theorized by President Palma among other things. But since it is not yet there, we are linked to this hypothesis, which the majority of the House does not yet consider to be mature. But it is possible to investigate the massacres: I demand that the Parliamentary Commission should intervene on the massacres, and for this reason I withdraw the amendment. However, the literal interpretation contained in point (f) must be maintained and supported, and this small correction in the accident proposed by the rapporteur must be set aside for the future work of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u162	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, we insist on Amendment No 1,201 because we believe, first of all, that we are in a bicameral parliamentary system: this House and these senators have the same dignity as other Members of Parliament to decide and decide independently! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are opposed to bicameralism, but that is another speech, Mr President. One cannot surreptitiously think, when it is convenient, that one cannot intervene on any bill, reducing our role: we are no one's paperweight. Furthermore, Mr President, we believe that the proposed amendment is of fundamental importance, and we insist on this point, because we fully grasp, in the will of some, the intention of not wanting to shed light in areas of our history that are still burning. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PdL Group.]] In this country there is a desire for truth and justice, and we, as long as we are here, will fight for it. That is why we insist, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u163	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u166	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, to tell you the truth, I have been wanting to speak for a long time, and I have mentioned it repeatedly. However, I realize that those who behave properly, without raising their voices, have no right to speak often. However, I would like to thank Mr Lumia for withdrawing Amendment No 1,200. I thought that this amendment, while supporting arguments to be taken into account, would have been a misunderstanding in the Commission's work, which needs to create new challenges and, therefore, cannot surreptitiously broaden the scope of powers. There is a need for clear objectives and prompt action and the postponement is still one to move the issue over time. For these reasons, I will vote against Amendment 1,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u169	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, on the outcome of Senator Lumia's announcement of the withdrawal of amendment 1,200, I could have done without speaking, but, truth be told, some passages in Senator Lumia's speech and, above all, other passages in Senator Giarrusso's speech, require me to express my thoughts fully. So let's all try to get out of a misunderstanding. Senator Ferrara is right when he says that the specification set out in amendments 1,200 and 1,201 was substantially more flexible than the text, since that activity of evaluating or verifying the causes of the massacres or the facts related to the Mafia's exversion was basically included in the general tasks already designed for the Anti-Mafia Commission and, more specifically, in Article 1 (f). Anyone who is familiar with legal texts knows perfectly well that what I am saying is true. In fact, in letter (f), when it comes to crimes and massacres of a political-mafia nature, it is only possible to allow the anti-mafia Commission any form of investigation in relation to those facts, the massacres, the causes, the reasons and anything else, and it is not blocked in this by the absence of the word "eversive" because, as we all know, the circumstances of terrorism have been contested for the massacres of 1992, but with reference to an intrinsically mafia. So the 1,200 amendment did not bring water to the mill to a greater depth of the investigations. On the contrary: as in more political terms than those I have used and I will go to use rightly said President Casini, it would weaken the anti-Mafia Commission. And those who like me, like President Lumia, like many others, have experience of the Anti-Mafia Commission, know that talking about a Committee to which to entrust the immense work that had been entrusted to the Commission in previous times massacres is not to say. In fact, those committees, senators, for those who have not been in the anti-Mafia Commission, are composed of five people, which is to say that there would most likely be no representation of all the parliamentary groups in that Committee, and that a committee of five would be entrusted with such a delicate subject as that of the massacres of the past (I clearly do not refer to the massacres of the past), for which Parliament has repeatedly considered that there was a need for a proper Commission. Here, Senator Giarrusso, nobody, I repeat, does want to hide anything, and if you let me and so many others, starting with the President of the Senate, who have dedicated their lives to the fight against organized crime and who, for the memory of so many fallen friends, but for the memory of their personal chronicle, would never consent to a shame like what you imagined could happen through the law. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]] We are not used to walking the streets of demagogy, but from those who may be, Mr President, that there should also be great respect for this House and for the senators. You see, Mr President, just now in one of these speeches someone imagined that the mob was staying here. This is serious, Mr President: these are general statements which undermine the institutions to the very end and which do not bring any water to the mill of politics. These are the reasons why we thank Senator Lumia for withdrawing the amendment, aware that he is, for his previous experience, that in the face of a diversity of vision in this House, it is appropriate to overcome that diversity at the root, if we want a peaceful work in the Commission. For the same reasons, we shall vote against the amendment tabled by Senator Giarrusso. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u172	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, after the very moving speech by Senator Nitto Palma, with this emphasis, we were very impressed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With regard to the rewording proposed by the rapporteur, however, we have forgotten an important part. We focused on a conjunction, forgetting the initial part for which reformulation was requested: to ascertain the reasons why the causes and those responsible were not identified. The aim of this amendment (of the amendment that we tabled) is not to investigate the political-mafia massacres as provided for in paragraph f), because we knew it was already written, but to investigate why the perpetrators were not identified, and we know that the fault is with politics. It is therefore absolutely not ultra-roneous, as it has been defined: it is a question of investigating why some delittuous, subversive, mafia-like events have spread a veil and have been led astray. That was the objective of that amendment, and this was hidden behind a debate on a conjunction. That was what I wanted to emphasize. It's a divisive subject when it comes to mafia, yes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u175	IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, I am frankly surprised and surprised, for a very simple fact, because, I repeat, it is my first experience in this House, and I have a lot of respect in this House. I understand then why the outside world is completely distant, in the face of the easy and sterile demagogy that is being done on a subject that I find completely indifferent. The initial question I ask myself is this: but if the Mafia investigation committee is set up, what good is it if it doesn't investigate the mafia massacres? PALMA (PdL). Sure! IN MAY (SPI). Even today, among other things, - because here we come back on extremely important facts, on the massacres of '92 and '93 - we are talking about an argument that has been overcome even by the judicial chronicle: perhaps someone has escaped, in fact, that today there was a sentence of the court of Palermo that has restored dignity to the officers of the Carabinieri who have properly operated on the territory. [[Applause from the SCPI and PDL groups.]] I therefore believe that we must overcome the sterile controversy that has crept into this House and that the collective interest must be restored, which perhaps here has completely escaped our final objective. [[Applause from the SCPI and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u178	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would simply like to say that I spoke earlier about the method, rather than the substance, trying to put to the House an issue which seemed to me to be of pure common sense. However, particularly after listening to Mr Giarrusso's speech, I should like to say one thing on the subject. The colleagues of the 5 Star Movement know that I often share with them voting choices and even common battles and that I look with great respect to many of the things they do. They will allow me, in this case, to express a disagreement with what was said by Senators Giarrusso, before, and Crimes, just now. We can discuss the substance of this matter, whether it is more or less useful to have a Commission with investigative powers over the mafioso-stragist phenomenon or whether it is better to envisage the establishment of two different Commissions, one of which has been dedicated in particular - as has been the case over the past few years - to the non-mafia killing phenomenon. I remember, in fact, that our country was also marked by political massacres, by the fascist massacres, whose tombstones still mark some squares of Italy: there is written "fascist sculptures," and not "mafia sculptures." I therefore believe that we should not make the political mistake of making a confusion about this which makes the contours of the matter much less understandable. In any case, Senator Giarrusso - apart from what you think, if it is more right to have a Commission or two Commissions and where the powers of one and the other are stopped - consider those who have doubts about the amendment you have written and who somehow think that that amendment is not useful, because instead, for example, a Commission of massacres, collusion and unwilling to shed any light on what has happened in Italy over these years frankly seems too much to me. Sorry, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement - I tell you with politeness and politeness - but you were not the first to try to shed light on the massacres and limited sovereignty that has occurred in this country and on so many things that have happened. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL, PD, PdL and SCpI Groups]] There are stories, traditions and political events of people who died for this, of blood that was shed, long before Cricket existed, the 5 Star Movement and your authoritative opinion. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL, PD, PdL and SCpI Groups]] With great respect, therefore, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, precisely because I consider subscribeable - and I insist - many of the things you say, I would ask you to make the effort not to believe that you are the only ones to carry forward some themes, themes that, instead, probably exist in this country for many decades and that have seen many political and social struggles in the field on this. I therefore really ask you to at least try to show mutual respect. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, PdL and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u181	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I come from a city, from which Senator Giarrusso also comes, where the word mafia for decades has not been imprinted in the characters of the only local newspaper, where the obituaries in which reference was made to the word mafia - including the obituary of Pippo Fava - were not accepted because they contained the word mafia. Catania, in fact, had to be like the island of Delo, in which you are not born and you do not die: the mafia did not exist, because this obviously allowed to make Catania the city in which the mafia business and the hidden force of the mafia could also have relations with those pieces of the city - entrepreneurial pieces and politics - which then determined further strength and wealth of the mafia organizations. So, I know what Senator Giarrusso is talking about. I know what colleagues from the Five Star Movement are talking about. Now I understand why the debate has so far taken place exclusively on the extension of the competence of the Anti-Mafia Commission and instead the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement have attached great importance to the first part of Amendment 1,201, part that I dare say is somewhat ambiguous, but perhaps I say so as a former magistrate. In fact, it is obvious that, in investigating the reasons why the causes and responsibilities of the massacres have not been identified, if we had some dangerous temptations that were agitated in the anti-Mafia Commission, the first to be able to be put on the bench of the accused could be the many magistrates who with dedication, commitment, seriousness and independence of this have taken care of. But from the words of colleagues of the 5 Star Movement I understand that instead they certainly did not want to refer to this, but exactly to those covers, which are covered by politics or given by twisted pieces, which unfortunately exist also in our system (so often not, and we are happy and proud, but sometimes exist), that may have contributed to that the massacres were planned, however they did not intercept them, they allowed them to happen and sometimes they also did worse. This is a hovering suspicion, and it is the suspicion on which colleagues of the 5 Star Movement today insist by maintaining their amendment. I would like to say that if colleagues carefully read the letter (f) of paragraph 1, as other colleagues have done before, of the text that we are about to approve, which is also identical to the formulation of the Lumia proposal, they will see that it is exactly on the connection between mafia and politics, both with regard to its articulation in the territory and in the administrative bodies, and with reference to the infiltration of the mafia into politics, to the selection of the leadership groups and of the nominations for the elected assemblies, which the Anti-Mafia Commission will investigate when it investigates the massacres and phenomena of mafia exversion. Therefore, we are assured that there is, in the law establishing the Anti-Mafia Commission, the garrison for which that right need can be interpreted and can therefore find a follow-up in the work and investigation of the Commission. I have allowed myself to say this because I very much appreciated Mr De Cristofaro's words, but I think that we must all come out of this debate sure, clearly sure, that we are building an area of competence of the Anti-Mafia Commission that is also able to shed light - then the hierarchy will determine it itself - on the different points, but also on this issue, which is central: what relations between the Mafia and the pieces of politics, the apparatuses (of what the devil will be, if it has been), have been co-responsibility of massacres, episodes of mafia exversion that have bloodied this country. I believe that with this letter the danger of this field of investigation escaping from the Commission is excluded. Of course, this will have to be accompanied by a strong political will. As far as my Group is concerned, let me say this - I am not speaking as President of the 1st Commission, but as a member of the Democratic Group - of this you cannot doubt. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senators Fazzone, Zanettin, De Cristofaro and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u184	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u185	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1,201 (text 2), tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 825, 93, 656, 722 and 827
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u188	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, I wanted to point out that I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u189	The Presidency takes note of this. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session. Since we have gone beyond the scheduled time, the end-of-session speeches will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u190	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-70.ana.u191	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, July 18, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.17 p.m.
