ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Di Giorgi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 29 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 662, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u5	Mr President, my fellow senators and senators, this decree-law is of not only macro-economic importance, as is clear to all. For some time now we have been talking about this decree, which was presented at the beginning of this legislature, even though it was the subject of deep debates and interesting assessments, which led to the allocation of 40 billion euros, to be paid over the next twelve months to restore oxygen to companies, the economy and employment. We cannot fail to point out that in this situation, made up of credit crunch that often turns into insolvency, it is a real measure for growth, a concrete response to the problem of credit to businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and that in order to be real it needs to see those resources guaranteed precisely to small and medium-sized enterprises and their ability to survive the crisis. A strategic response that also looks to Europe, both because that 0.5 percent expected deficit deterioration in 2013 allows us to remain within the Community limits not endangering the cancellation of the excessive deficit procedure, which we need and achieved thanks to the sacrifices made by the Italians and which ended positively only a few days ago, and because it shows that the Stability Pact does not constitute an atemporal and a priori model. Before us, France and Spain have already used it with profit, and the results which Spain made known yesterday on the figures of its employment, which resumes and continues to grow, are clearly linked to the measure which allowed the Spaniards to pay and pay off their debts with the companies within three months. Ours is an important measure because it has allowed us to highlight, if ever there were still a need, important aspects of our public accounting system that we must carefully verify, such as, for example, the unevenness of the surveys and therefore the reliability of the economic and financial situations at the various levels of government. Is it possible that although they have established an advanced accounting system, with even rigid procedures, even today the various administrations are not able to measure with certainty the financial and economic exposure they have towards their suppliers? It is possible that it is the Bank of Italy and ISTAT, as we were able to verify during the hearings regarding this decree, to propose estimates, which are around 90 billion but of which we are not absolutely certain? But we can't just work on the accounting front. The measure highlights and tries to solve an unacceptable vulnus of the entire system, namely the disparity between the State in the general sense and the citizen: the first, zealous in cashing out the only credits or its alleged claims at the limit of harassment, as we have repeatedly verified, with the use of tax jaws and inappropriate foreclosures; the same person, vice versa, unbearably slow to honour its commitments, so much so as to put companies and economic activities in difficulty, if not even to lead them to insolvency, because it is a bad payer. It is a measure which, in my opinion, represents a laboratory and, at the same time, a test for the maintenance of the institutions, even before the government. On the basis of this measure, we should try to understand, so as not to find out late, Mr Undersecretary, whether the difficult openings which this Government has won at European level for measures to support employment and growth, such as capital expenditure, do not find any obstacles in the up-to-date accounting rules. It was the responsibility of the majority forces to allow fruitful cooperation with the Government to make important changes to the text fired in April. This measure is the example, a good example, of the things we can do, of the true answers that we can give to the right demand for concreteness coming from citizens. We have not solved everything, it is obvious, but we have improved, and we must continue to do so, for the so-called phase two, urged by the speakers of the provision, both to the House and the Senate, in order to widen the ceiling of 40 billion made available by the Government between 2013 and 2014, with the objective to resolve the emergency debts towards the enterprises. The amendments approved by the Senate Budget Committee, despite the tight deadlines for the final adoption of the measure, have proved to be entirely necessary, for example, from the equalisation of professionals, who entered the ranks, just like small and medium-sized enterprises, just like the other entities holding claims against the public administration, without any other reasonable doubt, in addition to the sanctions for managers who, perhaps, with their slowness, hinder the procedure of certification of debts, or the relaxation of the Stability Pact for entities that pass only because of such debts. Finally, the most important one: the one concerning the possible state guarantee for the payment of public administration debts, delegated to banks and financial intermediaries, both national, such as, for example, the Deposit and Loan Fund, and international, such as the EIB. The most significant measure is, in my opinion, this, because it will allow the entire stock of credits for 2012 to be disposed of by 2014 as Mr D'Ali mentioned in his report. But we probably should have done more. More consistency with those small and medium-sized enterprises which generate employment on our territories, for example on the priority criterion of payment of those credits, which are not the subject of pro solved transfers, those laid down in Article 6. Well, the House has introduced a rule whereby payments made to institutions, companies or bodies with total public participation must be devoted primarily to the payment of debts, as referred to in Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5, towards their creditors. It seemed to me important - in the Budget Committee there was an interesting debate on the point - to specify that the rule should apply, not only to companies with full control of the public administration, but also to those in which the public hand somehow holds the majority of the capital. There are not few suppliers sent at risk of insolvency by these companies, both centrally and at the peripheral level. It is in fact necessary, in my opinion, to anchor better a more stringent finalization of those resources, at least as a priority, if not exclusively, so as to give a truly concrete signal to a type of enterprise so evoked, from all told, but often distracted. This is so that the resources of this decree are not mainly absorbed, Mr Undersecretary, as in a perverse game of communicating vessels, only from the different clothes that the State wears in its institutional articulations, between public administration and public administration, and even in its economic role, through the public participants, who, from a careful reading of the decree, have the right to collect, but remain free not to fulfil the obligation to pay their previous debt stock with the enterprises, often those medium and small enterprises that take on, on behalf of these enterprises of the State or controlled by majority by the State, a financial subsidiary role on their behalf: all companies already stressed by credit crunch, which paradoxically die at the hands of the State, with all that follows for thousands and thousands of workers. We are at the beginning of this new page of the Italian economy: finally a choice of economic policy that intervenes on the real economy. Soon we will go to evaluate the beneficial effects on Italian companies, and also in this regard, on behalf of the People of Freedom, I declare that, except for the amendment I wanted to anticipate the illustration of, the Group withdraws the remaining amendments, in order to facilitate the rapid approval of the decree, so that this Government can continue to work, also strong of parliamentary support all oriented to the benefits that companies must be able to receive from this same decree. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u6	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the provision to the attention of the Senate Assembly, as proposed by the Budget Committee and the rapporteurs in this House, speaks on the text which the House of Deputies has hesitated to put forward, significantly improving it. Many of the specific aspects have already been mentioned by my fellow Members, which is why I would like to represent some of the more general effects of the measure. Beyond the limits of a one-off instrument - a sort of sanatorium that the State is doing for itself - this measure can and must generate structural changes, starting from the overcoming of the great disorder that has emerged in the widespread government, financial and accounting, of the public administrations and from the revision of the relations between these and the enterprises. It is a measure that has rightly generated many expectations, between the enterprises and the representative organizations, as well as between the local authorities and the Regions, and to which was given at the beginning a credit certainly limited: however, the data provided by the Government show that the initial distrust is already largely exceeded. To those who say that it could have been done better, I say that for now it could not be done more: it could not do more than one country that in these four years has been entangled in an infringement procedure, for which I do not intend to recall the responsibilities: but if we are here and perhaps we are going to approve an important measure, this is due to the work done in recent months. We now have a measure agreed with the European Commission, which is workable and already operational. It represents a turning point, because it opens the season of those interventions necessary to get our country and Europe out of the hood of an unbearable crisis, which is starting towards the sixth consecutive year, and which must find full and complete development with the exit from the infringement procedure, through a new season of European policies for growth, which must find full deployment and to which our Government and our country can now make a decisive contribution. There is more: this measure can generate a new season of positive behavior, which must be desired and strengthened. First of all, because the decree allowed a real recognition of the debt situation of public administrations to companies, but also on the behaviour and state of public administrations, not only of local ones. The data delivered by the Government, in addition to clearly showing how much this measure was necessary quantitatively, reveals a series of qualitative information, which will allow to guide the next interventions. On the quantitative level - as I said - this intervention does not justify new expenditure, but frees captive resources, thus made available for a stimulus of domestic demand, with a desired and sought multiplier effect: I think it is useful to recall that the payment of companies will be an economic flywheel, which will affect GDP, so much so as to generate the resources necessary to postpone the measure on the increase of VAT, already planned for this year. This assessment is certainly present in the Government: however, it must be stressed that we also think that the payments of this intervention can generate new unpredicted revenue, which must certainly be directed in a priority direction, that is the necessary and fair one, aimed at avoiding the further weakening of domestic demand, which the increase in VAT can only cause with certainty. On the qualitative level the decree generates an important mapping, which can be completed in the months ahead, until the second deadline of August, in view of a further intervention of completion. The mapping shows a clear geography between the state system, regions and local authorities, but above all among them shows a geography from which emerges the state of the local authorities in the Mezzogiorno, those more fragile and more exposed to an increasingly weak and passive function, in an economic and social context that instead would require it stronger. If the mapping were also done on creditors, on their financial and economic structure, it would also show a geography, between small, medium and large enterprises and their very location, which would be very clear. From these elements, which are of great importance almost as much as the financial provision itself, we must start to carry out a further necessary intervention aimed at preventing a possible collapse of the local business fabric as of the weaker local administrations which, due to the extension of the Stability Pact to the realities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, could be further paralysed in their functions. Thanks to this decree-law we have more information, an additional value that can help the Government and Parliament to act in the coming months by preventing the structural situations of difficulties of local authorities, especially the smaller ones. Finally, this measure shows a further positive side. It serves not only to restart the economy with a long-awaited multiplier system, or to restart our local economy with so many small yards. It becomes fundamental in order to resist and save that widespread fabric of small enterprises caught up in a public canvas, in which one is quick and strict in demanding the payment of debts to the State and very slow or absent in paying the debts of the public administration to the enterprises. How deep in this fabric is felt this attitude so different and unfair is seen by the amount of local movements in which to the right demand not to be suffocated by the debtor state, is added an increasing feeling of distance between citizens and the public administration that foments and nourishes the separation between citizens and politics. In these years the connective fabric of the country system has been so "extruded" formed by the many small and medium-sized enterprises, often handicraft, often individual, that have made Italy the country we have known in our generation: a manufacturing country and services of great dynamism, in the time exhausted by the rupture of a virtuous relationship, trust between private and public, which also by the relationship between public administration (that of the local authorities, in particular) and small enterprise was structured and strengthened. It is not trivial for the State, the public administration to become a payer (if not a good payer), a person who complies with the commitments with its citizens, with the businesses that the citizens are constituted. I think I can see that the bill in question also goes in the right direction. It is not a purely ethical aspect that I refer to, but rather a non-residual value in economic trade, as much as, for an institutional system, in the relationship with citizens. In this respect, too, the measure under consideration, which is so important, beyond merit, can help to rebuild the relationship of trust between politics and citizens, and for this reason it must be approved quickly. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u8	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u9	I call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like above all to thank all my fellow Members who have shown themselves to be able to enter into the debate, both in the Commission and in this House, with great skill and competence in the heart of an extremely sensitive subject. I would therefore like to thank everyone for their contribution to the composition of a text which may not be excellent, but which is certainly good and which meets the needs of the internal market, especially those of companies with such long-standing credits - ancient in some cases - and considerable in relation to public administration. Thanks again, then. Further details will be given during the examination of the amendments. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u11	I call the rapporteur, Senator Santini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u12	Mr President, I too would like to thank all those who have spoken for the quality of the debate and for having succeeded, during the examination of the Commission's proposals for improving the text, in meeting the important need mentioned by the economic system, by Italian companies, to respond to the problem of the various tens of billions of euros that are not the subject of the measure under consideration, but that with this measure we try to place on the agenda of the government's activity, in the course of next year, with a strong commitment therefore to be maintained. A significant effort has also been made to respect local authorities (in particular the municipalities) by granting greater flexibility to their budgets in view of the needs of the territory and services. These two elements will therefore help, in our view, on the one hand, to implement the law in appropriate, rapid, timely and effective terms, and, on the other hand, the future activity of government in addressing the still strong demands of the economic world and territorial authorities. That is why it seems to us that the debate has dealt well with the issues raised by this measure and, also as far as I am concerned, I reserve further consideration of the specific issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u13	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u14	Mr President, I too, on behalf of the Government, would like to thank the senators for the work that has been done to improve the text of this measure: a text which had already undergone significant changes to the House of Members and which has been further improved by the work of the Commissions, the two rapporteurs and the parliamentary groups, and which I believe can be considered today as an example of the opening of a new season, as has been pointed out in several speeches. I would like to turn briefly to some of these aspects, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because I believe that the debate that has taken place in the Commission and here in this House deserves particular attention, clearly inserting itself in the wider context of the measures that the Government intends to take in the coming days and months in order to try to bring about a major reversal of the trend towards such a complicated situation as the current one. First of all, this is a measure that obviously did not aim to remedy everything that represents the total package of past debts of the public administration to the enterprises: rather, it had the objective of beginning to deal with the topic in a robust way. Let me say robust because EUR 40 billion is a robust response to the strategic issues we have on our table and which obviously come from the past: these issues are called public debt, the overall deficit-GDP ratio limit of 3% and it is called, finally, budget balance in Europe. From this point of view, therefore, an effort of 40 billion euros, made through the use of an issue of government bonds to give a response to companies, I believe it is a signal of good determination that this Government certainly intends to follow up. As far as the management of these EUR 40 billion is concerned, when it is decided to provide a sum for which no automation procedures are foreseen, obviously there is a need for rules, and what we have identified together I believe are generally valid rules, which are already determining positive effects and which, in my view, can also be considered as a reference model for future disbursements of past debts not yet clearly quantified as a whole. One of the issues that emerged during the debate and on which the Government commits itself is, in fact, to identify in a timely way the total package of debts that the public administration has, because it is now difficult to accept the fact that there can be estimates made by several institutions, however authoritative, that differ in significant amounts from each other, without the public administration having a clear overall figure. Mr President, I believe that this decree will also enable us to identify in a timely manner many of these interventions and therefore the needs that the Government intends to meet in the near future. The second reflection concerns the state of the art in the field of public accounting. It is clear, more than ever today, that the budgetary principles that we had begun to discuss in the last parliamentary term need to be further renewed. In my view, in the overall package of reforms, we still need to make progress on the aspect of the overlap between the principles of competence and the cash principle for the budgets of local authorities, and therefore the possibility, through this choice, of giving progressive certainty to payments and relations with third parties by local authorities and, more generally, by public administration. A further reflection obviously concerns the need for a comprehensive effort by this country in the area of reforms, in order to arrive at the implementation of the European directive that foresees the need to pay in 60 days: this is the other important request made by our companies. In this respect, I believe that in the next 18 months there is the possibility, on the part of the Government, to do a good job. As far as the other aspects of the measure are concerned, I think I can say that the qualifying element of the changes that have taken place in the Senate has been to consider in a more precise way some shortcomings that had already been identified with regard to the application of the IMU, particularly on the issue of property owned by the municipalities, which I believe to be important in the amendments of the rapporteurs that we are going to approve in this House. I am also referring to the improvement of the functioning of the Vertical Stability Pact and the financial spaces that have been identified, explored and I would also like to say that they are being guarded by a number of interventions that really make it possible to make the best use of these EUR 40 billion. In conclusion, Mr President, the hope is that this measure will find a broad consensus - it seems to me that it has found it in the Commissions and in the other branch of Parliament - and that it can indeed be the beginning of a phase that will give a significant refreshment to our companies, which need certainty of references with regard to the relationship with the central administration, not only with respect to the issue of payments, but also with respect to the relationship with the tax - and therefore, basically, with the system that concerns collection - and more generally with the certainty of law, that our country must more rightly pursue at this stage, also in the field of economic relations, which today represent a crucial hub for the maintenance of our economic and social system. In this regard the Government makes a commitment to try to pursue these objectives through a compound procedure, arising on the one hand from the issue of reforms and on the other from the recovery of resources, especially as regards interventions that allow spending savings more than new revenue and on which we hope a significant recovery of our country. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u15	I call on the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u16	The first permanent Commission, examined the decree-law in title, on the assumption that the provisions contained therein refer to the "tax and accounting system of the State" and to the "balance of financial resources," matters attributable to the exclusive legislative competence of the State, as well as to the "coordination of public finance and the tax system," a matter attributed to the shared competence between the State and the Regions, expresses, as far as it is competent, a non-obstacle opinion. Having also examined the relevant amendments, it gives the following opinions, in so far as they fall within its competence: on amendment 2.8 to the contrary, since the provisions contained therein contain rules of excessive detail, directly accidents on areas reserved for the financial autonomy of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano; on amendment 10.10 to the contrary, because the provision provided for therein, in identifying the regulatory instrument through which the municipality sets the deadline and number of payments of the municipal tax on waste and services, appears detrimental to the constitutional autonomy granted to the local authorities; on the remaining amendments it does not preclude the adoption of the opinion. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendments submitted by the Assembly relating to the draft law in title, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion contrary, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to the proposal 1,1,000 (text 2/105, limited to the paragraph "comma 1-b ", however withdrawn by the presenters. With regard to amendment 1.1,000 (text 2) the opinion is conditional, in accordance with the same constitutional rule, on the inclusion in Article 11, paragraph "comma 5-a," after the words: "the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance agrees" with the following: "in compliance with public finance balances." On all the remaining amendments, the opinion was of no objection.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u17	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain. (Senators Bulgarelli, Lezzi, Bertorotta, Endrizzi, Tomaselli and Pagliari are invited by the President to state whether they intend to explain their respective amendments).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to briefly explain the amendment 1,1000 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, and to take advantage of this opportunity to say that the 5th Commission's remark, in accordance with Article 81, is no doubt transposed, by including in Article 11, paragraph 5 (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) ( I believe that we must also give a brief explanation of the amendments contained in Annex II, which were the last to have been tabled, which refer to Article 1. These two amendments concern the budgets of the Municipalities, giving them the possibility to continue to carry out their collection effectively (the first) and, above all, giving to the Municipalities the consideration of the IMU revenue on the properties of municipal property, which was contested already at the time of the introduction of the IMU. Today, with amendment 1,700 this revenue is returned to the municipalities and, therefore, enters into their availability. These are the main changes introduced by the amendments tabled by the rapporteurs in Annex II. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion. From there, rapporteur. Mr President, I am against Amendment 1.1. Amendments 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7 have already been withdrawn. I am against Amendments 1.8, 1.10 and 1,1000 (text 2)/100, 1,1000 (text 2)101, 1,1000 (text 2)/102, 1,1000 (text 2)/103 and 1,1000 (text 2)/104. Amendments 1,1000 (text 2)/105 and 1,1000 (text 2)/106 have also been withdrawn. The opinion is, of course, in favour of amendment 1,1000 (text 3), tabled by the Commission, and contrary to amendment 1,53. Finally, on Amendments Nos 1,1000 (text 2,200 and 1,700) tabled by the Commission, our opinion can only be favourable. As far as the agenda is concerned, I am in favour of Senator Tomaselli's G1400 agenda. On the agenda for the G1.401 of Senator Endrizzi and other senators, I would like to remind you that this issue has already been resolved in the context of the rapporteur's amendment, so that the agenda becomes an almost ultroneal recommendation for which we have no contraindications. Then you will choose the government with which formula To welcome him. The same is true of the G1.402 agenda. The opinion is in favour of the G1.403 agenda, with the warning, however, Mr President, that the point of order should be deleted. I think that is not the practice we have used. Therefore, the mechanism could be written down as follows: It commits the Government to consider the possibility of resolving the issues raised in the preamble, because they are all mentioned in the premise, and dealt with in the debate in the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u19	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u20	I put to the vote Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. It's not approved. Amendments 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8. Mr ASTORRE (PD). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Astorre, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.10. SANTANGELO (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.10, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 246 Senators voting 244 Majority 123 Favorables 62 Contrari 176 Absent 6]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1000 (text 2)/100. SANTANGELO (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,1000 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorables 48 Contrari 193 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1000 (text 2/101). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,1000 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 250 Majority 126 Favorables 50 Contrari 194 Absent 6]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1000 (text 2/102). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,1000 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorables 50 Contrari 192 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1000 (text 2/103). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,1000 (text 2)/103, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorables 50 Contrari 191 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1000 (text 2/104). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,1000 (text 2)/104, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, there is someone voting for two! (Returns to the PdL Group desks) There are some pianists [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the secretary senators to check that the voting operations are carried out correctly. [[Senator Secretary Mussolini approaches the benches of the M5S and PdL Groups to proceed with the verification. Comments from the PdL Group. Applause from the M5S Group.]] I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 250 Majority 126 Favorables 48 Contrari 195 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1,1000 (text 2/200/2) has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1000 (text 2/200).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u23	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. We of the 5 Star Movement will always ask for electronic voting. However, having to do it from time to time, I will always be with my hand raised. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u24	I'll always look at her, then. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,1000 (2/2/200 text) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 250 Majority 126 Favourites 197 Contrars 3 Absent 50]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1,1000 (text 2)/105 and 1,1000 (text 2)/106 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1000 (text 3). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,1000 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favourites 201 Absent 50]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u25	I address a greeting on behalf of the Assembly to the group of the Diocese of Cosenza present in the gallery, which has followed this part of our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u26	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,700. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would therefore like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,700 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favourites 196 Absent 55]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.53. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Lezzi and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 1.53. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 254 Senators voting 252 Majority 127 Favorables 50 Contrari 196 Absent 6]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,400, G1,401, G1,402 and G1,403 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u29	CARRARO (PdL). Mr President, I would like to point out that during the first vote, although it did not appear, I voted against the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u32	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the Government has accepted the agendas, but I would like to explain why, apart from the text, there are some contents that we would like to draw attention to both the reasons and the specific measures that we are proposing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, you were called for the illustration earlier, I'm sorry. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Allow me, you didn't mention me, or I would have answered you immediately. It wasn't done.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u33	I'm sorry to contradict you, but there's a recording that can confirm what I'm saying. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u34	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2.8, also because of the very opposite opinion of the 1st Commission. On Amendment 2,17 the opinion is opposed, as the content has been incorporated into one of the rapporteur's amendments. However, we also had to comply with the forecast set by the 5th Commission; therefore, we cannot take any further action on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u35	I give my assent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 249 Senators voting 247 Majority 124 Favorables 52 Contrari 189 Absent 6]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,17. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorables 50 Contrari 192 Absent 6]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We proceed to the examination of the agenda referred to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u37	Mr President, Article 3 concerns payments of the debts of the institutions of the National Health Service. The burden of depreciation of the so-called non-sterilized depreciations, i.e. the amounts that over the years have been used with regional funds, such as loans, or through the proceeds of asset disposals of the local authority's available assets, was not included in the balance sheet and did not contribute to the calculation of the financial balance of the health management of each region. Therefore, the Government is asked to specify that, regardless of the title under which the Regions will allocate the resources to the individual institutions, the resources themselves can constitute in their entirety financial cover of the unsterilized depreciations, already the subject of the joint meeting of the technical table for the verification of the regional compliances with the Standing Committee for the verification of the essential levels of assistance of March 2011. Moreover, in some regions, responsible for the payment of debts, in the health sector, are the entities of the regional health service and not directly the Region, as is the case in the region of Tuscany, where the purchases of the goods and services of the health companies are realized through the so-called ESTAV (entities for the technical-administrative services of wide area) and the debts of the Tuscan health companies towards the ESTAVs represent approximately 50% of the debts expired. Therefore, the Government is asked to specify better the legal nature of the creditors, taking into account the presence, within the National Health Service, of bodies in which the functions of acquisition of goods and services for health companies are centralized.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u38	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u39	Mr President, the opinion is in favour, provided that the presenter, on the part of the agenda on which she makes the Government's commitment, is less prescriptive and therefore changes the wording "to specify" by the expression "to assess the possibility of specifying." If the presenter agrees with this amendment, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u40	The Government, with this amendment, gives its assent to that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u41	Senator Granaiola, do you agree with the amendment proposed by the rapporteur and the government representative? GRANAIOLA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3400 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendment 4.4 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain. Amendment 6.2 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to point out that Amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator Lanzillotta and myself, has already been withdrawn and transformed into the G6400 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u43	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u44	Mr President, we propose to turn Amendment 6.16 into an agenda. It aims, through the provision of liquidity, to be able to guarantee sub suppliers of public administration suppliers through a direct mechanism whereby 80% of what is owed to the direct creditor is paid directly by the Ministry of Economy and Finance to subcontractors.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u45	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u46	I am in favour of turning amendment 6.16 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u47	Mr President, as far as Senator Bonfrisco's amendment 6.11 is concerned, we ask that the presenter turn it into an agenda. The matter has been discussed in the Commission for a long time and it is certainly an important matter which could be the subject of forthcoming regulatory action. Therefore, if the presenter is in favour of turning it into an agenda, the latter would certainly see the rapporteur's favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u48	Senator Bonfrisco, do you accept the invitation of the rapporteurs to turn your amendment into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u49	Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur's invitation to turn the amendment into an agenda. In fact, I consider it important that, among the acts of this branch of Parliament, attention should be given to the interpretation of the rule (which is then required in its application, for example, to the colleges of auditors in publicly owned companies, in various ways, whether they hold an absolute majority or a share of participation), so that it is clear and certain that those resources should then be allocated to the extinction of the debt stock borne by these administrations by virtue of obligations vis-à-vis small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to take this opportunity - and I do not take much time in this House - to remind you of some data produced by Unioncamere and resinated a few days ago. 2013 is likely to be remembered as the record year of business failures. In fact, in the first quarter of 2013 - the crisis really never seems to end - business failures have reached a new record of procedures initiated; and not only failures, but also the agreed ones have exponential growths. Overall, company closures have accelerated their race considerably. In the first three months there are about 23,000 companies that have initiated insolvency or voluntary winding-up proceedings, significantly increasing compared to the data of the previous year. In a possible projection, if 23,000 companies in the first quarter have entered this tunnel from which companies normally cannot go back, it means that at the end of the year about 100,000 companies will be able to start these procedures, with imaginable and devastating effects on employment. The first three months of 2013 marked a significant figure, for example, in the North-East, where the default number was decreasing in 2011, but recorded a sharp surge. However, the increase in failures does not save any area of the country: the race proceeds with two-digit rates also in the North-West (plus 15 percent) and at slightly lower rates in Central Italy, the South and the islands (plus 3 percent). However, these are alarming data, which put us in front of a choice: how to make the most stringent possible the guarantee that these resources are not absorbed once again by the State and its articulations, but really come into being.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u50	Mr President, we also support the G6400 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u51	Mr President, the Government's opinion on the agenda is favourable, given that most of these elements had already found in the Government's reply a working basis for the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u54	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, together with Senator Del Barba, I would like to ask Senator Bonfrisco to be able to put our signature on the agenda G6.11, which you have tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u55	I accept Senator Sangalli's request
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u56	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G6.11, G6.16 and G6,400 will not be put to the vote. We now come to the examination of the amendment to include an additional article after Article 6-a of the Decree-Law, which is already intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u57	The rapporteur's opinion on amendment 6-a. 0.1 is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u58	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6-a.0.1 SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6-a. 0.1 presented by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favorables 50 Contrari 194 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all citizens, Mr. Representative of the Government, there is no doubt that the bill that we are about to dismiss is the most important act, from the macroeconomic point of view, in recent years (it is in fact the first real manoeuvre, hopefully an expansionary sign, that we give to the economic system), as it is evident to all that the 20 billion planned for this year constitute a drop in the sea of total debts of public administration; sea that has become of despair for many of our fellow citizens, whether or not they are organized in business, that they are languishing in a limbo of lack of rights that sees us for the first time in the history of our economy risk dying by credit. Especially for this reason, as a 5 Star Movement, even though we are forces of opposition, we participated with responsibility, in the Special Commission, first, and in the Permanent Commissions, then, both because this little money, which has become a dramatic watershed between life and death (ahimè, it is not a metaphor), arrived soon and did not lose themselves in the quick sands of bureaucracy both so that, especially for a principle of equality, no one would be excluded, since no one should remain behind. As with our amendments to the House, we have also allowed those who had problems with the regularity of the DURC to be able to benefit from the measure. We have here hoped, with our amendment which I am presenting, not to exclude those creditors who make claims from the local authorities. This is to be corrected by amendment 7.1, which is precisely intended to include, in the recognition for certification of public administration debts, also those amounts due by participating companies and local administrations, on which private contractors have legitimately relied. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u61	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u62	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u63	Mr President, Amendment 7.1 certainly deals with a sensitive subject, which we have been debating in the Commission for a long time, but its term would extend the scope of users even to very small holdings, while we have defined in the text to include in payments the so-called in-house companies or those which are fully part of the public administration. It may be that in a next measure, even in the light of the widening of the availability of plafonds that will be obtained by the Government thanks to the changes made in the text, it can be extended to the majority participations of the public administration, but this diction is now too wide and would not find justification, even in the world of the economy, in the balance between the presence of public and private. I therefore object to Amendment 7.1, as well as to the other amendments to Article 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u64	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. With regard to Amendment 7.1, the reasons mentioned by Senator D'Alì, I would like to add that there would also be a problem of coverage, because we could hardly have the use of debt for payment on this type of credit accepted in Europe. In addition to the issue of enlargement, there is therefore also a problem with finding resources. I therefore object.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u65	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.1 tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u68	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, Senator Formigoni has just put his hand in a hole that is not his own, so he has just cast two votes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It's not a proper operation. Please put it to the record. It is clear that he has cast two votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u71	Formigoni (PdL). Mr President, my colleague is right, in the sense that I made an exchange of cards, so I put my card in the wrong place. I apologise to you, Mr President, and to the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u72	I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorables 50 Contrari 191 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. Amendments 7.5, 7.7 and 7.14 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u73	I ask you to speak, to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u74	Senator Molinari, we are already in the process of voting on the amendment and can therefore make an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u75	MOLINARI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. I therefore ask that we speak in an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MOLINARI (M5S). Mr President, as we said in the previous speech, we want and hope to achieve the expansive effect of this move through the introduction of this liquidity - albeit little, it is better than nothing - and that it will actually go to the real economy quickly and surely. We had tried to amend the text in order to eliminate that series of critical issues, which we believe remain within the measure that we are preparing to dismiss and which we are now proposing to the House, even if we have heard the negative opinion both from the Government and the Commission. Moreover, the very existence of this bill is a clear symptom of a situation of ethical crisis, not only economic, that involves our country system and the government of the same. We are in fact reasoning and legalizing on something that is - or, better, should be - one of the preconditions of any pact between citizens and institutions and that, in general, is the basis of any commercial relationship, that is, what in law is defined as custody, for which every provision of goods or services must be paid its payment, without any obstacle to bureaucracy. In fact, we fear that the serious danger of delays in the introduction of these few resources into the real economy will persist - and in its entirety - because of the permanent cumbersomeness of the certification procedure, although very important, for which we had proposed - and we are proposing today - safeguard rules, to protect creditors and without any other burden on them. To this end, the amendment which was also welcomed in the Commission tends to favour amendment 7.23, which aims to give the creditor the right to report the credit claimed through the electronic platform, because otherwise he would have few weapons against the further inertia of the public administration, except to seek justice and its mortals - for the company - response times, or amendment 7.24, aimed at not constituting the non-registration on the electronic platform in terms of grounds of foreclosure for the presentation by the creditor himself of the requests for recognition of the debt, given its limited power to affect the procedure, as well as the subsequent amendment 7.28, aimed at allowing, in the event of objective shortcomings by the public administration on the recognition of debts, not only the sanction that is provided for. Then there are other amendments which I shall be presenting later. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Lezzi and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 7.23. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 257 Senators voting 254 Majority 128 Favorables 59 Contrari 187 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.14. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.24, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 254 Senators voting 253 Majority 127 Favorables 60 Contrars 185 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.25. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bulgarelli and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 7.25. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 253 Senators voting 252 Majority 127 Favorables 50 Contrari 194 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.28. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Lezzi and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 7.28, which was tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 253 Majority 127 Favorables 50 Contrari 196 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 662
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u78	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are making yet another complaint. Mr Senator, who sits in the third row of the PdL Group from top to bottom, has just pulled out a card. We kindly ask that the necessary checks be carried out. (The Senator Secretary of Giorgi descends into the hemicycle to carry out the checks.) He just pulled a card. It's a shame! It's a shame! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr. President, this out of respect...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u79	We're checking.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u80	SANTANGELO (M5S). ...even out of respect for the people who come and watch this way of working. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll switch to the fingerprint check. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Common sense would be enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u81	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 7.31. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote on Amendment 7.31 by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 246 Majority 124 Favorables 48 Contrari 190 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u82	Mr President, this is of course the continuation of the reasoning we were making earlier. Precisely because it is not the creditors who have to pay the consequences of a delay of the public administration, with amendment 8.3 we want to ensure that the costs of the possible intervention of an accountant or a notary, when they are to replace the certification by the public administration, are not affected by the creditors. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u83	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u84	Mr President, the opinion is against amendment 8.3. It seems to me, in fact, that the planned reduction of half of the fees is already adequate: we cannot expect anyone in the course of his work to work, as they say, completely free of charge. The opinion was also opposed to amendment 8.4, while it was in favour of the G8400 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u85	Mr President, as far as the amendments are concerned, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. The Government also accepts the G8400 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u86	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.3 tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 256 Senators voting 255 Majority 128 Favorables 52 Contrari 196 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Lezzi and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 8.4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorables 51 Contrari 190 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 622
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u89	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, just to point out that I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u90	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendment 8.6 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G8400 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain. I imagine Senator Molinari will illustrate for everyone: even for Senator Endrizzi! [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr President. We appreciate your humorous spirit of today, which makes us all feel a little good. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Ferrara Mario and Repetti.]] Turning now to the substance of amendment 9.14, it is in practice nothing more than the continuation of the construction that we had imagined in order to promote a better chance of intervention and to produce positive effects in relation to the decree that we are about to lay off. In order to honour what we were saying earlier, it is a question of recreating that pact which should be a healthy and fair equal relationship between the creditor citizen (business and taxpayer) and the debtor and collector local State-entities: that pact of mutual loyalty, fairness and good faith which should exist in every democratic state between institutions and citizens and which is the basis of mutual recognition. Trust and certainty that power will behave loyally with the citizen, finding viable and common sense solutions. In essence, Amendment 9.14 is aimed at extending the compensation of claims on public administration, which, of course, was completed within the limit of 31 December 2012 (on which action can be taken for the time being), to those non-prescribed claims relating to the unlawful application of VAT on TIA, which were also considered to be fortiori, which in this case were judgments of both the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, which in this regard declared the illegality of the impact of VAT on TARES, also having regard to the effect of continuing its activity. As for the subsequent amendments which we had tabled, I make a statement made by the Governor of the Bank of Italy himself in his "final considerations" at the recent ordinary assembly; and we know how much his speeches are weighed in every word and phrase. Says the governor: We have not been able to respond to the extraordinary geopolitical, technological and demographic changes of the past twenty-five years. The adjustment required and thus postponed for a long time has a historical scope; it has implications for the methods of accumulation of material and intangible capital, specialization and productive organization, the education system, skills, job paths. The banking channel - I remind myself and all of us - is (unfortunately) the main source of financing for our economy, but it has been prey to the economic situation that today compresses the demand for credit. In the contraction of credit there is no doubt also the fall in investment by companies and the purchase of durable goods, as well as the weakening of the real estate market. But to the decrease of the employments has contributed significantly the stiffening of the supply, also because of the participation of the previous Government, that it has drained beyond 600 billion from the real economy. From this perspective of market inadequacy to the resolution of the crisis, we need a response from the policy, which is so far absent, and from public intervention, which we have tried to indicate with the proposition of these amendments, all rejected, which concern precisely the operation and establishment of a revolving fund and additional financing mechanisms to the guarantee fund for the granting of the loan to small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. It is not useless to remember that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of our economy. And when one dies it is a social catastrophe, because without small and medium-sized enterprises Italy will not only fail, but it will become a productive desert for decades, because it is lost in knowledge not easily replaceable. What, this, made even more serious if this suicide is determined by the failure to provide a microcredit, perhaps necessary to cope, pending the payment of credits perhaps by the public administration (as in the case of the object of the measure that we are analyzing), the tax and social security charges. Moreover, given that small and medium-sized enterprises produce around 60% of GDP and represent around 98% of Italian companies, it is quite obvious that, if we want to talk seriously about putting the nation's economy back on track, restoring liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises must become the priority of any government action: it is a question of the survival of the country and of imagining its future. And, in a situation where the banking and financial system is deaf to requests for aid, the State must be ready to intervene, through its operating arm on the credit market such as the Deposit and Loan Fund. For this reason, we have provided for the possibility, within a measure that talks about the payment of debts of the public administration, of the creation of a revolving fund, which will be self-supported by the mechanisms of anticipation and repayment at preferential rates of loans granted and with the consequent restarting of the economy that will arise from it. The initial budget will be financed by the repeal of the disbursements due as reimbursement for the electoral expenses incurred by the parties [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , as we of the 5 Star Movement have already done for this electoral round for the amount of EUR 42 million. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This, as we have foreseen in successive amendments, is accompanied, also as an alternative and cooperative function, by the refinancing mechanism of the Guarantee Fund already provided for in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises through the voluntary allocation of all or part of both public funding to parties, as well as part of the single contribution due to parliamentary groups. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a clear and immediate way of eliminating the financing of parties which directly benefits those who create wealth in our nation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And not with that game-swindle of the provision that the Government has announced to enter into operation only in 2017, with disbursements almost certainly superior to the current ones, which are already scandalous! These amendments have been rejected and no one has given us a plausible explanation, since they do not involve further disbursements from national accounts. [[Applause from Senator Blundo.]] Mechanisms, all of which are envisaged as amendments to Article 9, such as 9.23, aimed at creating a revolving fund at the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, aimed at granting loans to those with credit accrued at 31 December 2012 to the public administration of a loan equal to the credit, or amendment 9.0.1, aimed at creating a revolving fund at the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, aimed at granting micro and small enterprises, as defined by Community legislation, even if associated, of soft loans in the form of anticipation, with the possibility of using as collateral the certified credits advanced by the public administration. Or, again, Amendment 9.0.2, aimed at voluntary allocation of revenue - for various purposes - from parties, political movements, parliamentary groups, but also from bodies, associations, societies or individuals, to support micro-entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises through a Guarantee Fund. A fund whose purpose is identified in the very essence of the existence of the 5 Star Movement in these classrooms: that of participating, citizens between citizens, in a common destiny as the ultimate goal of political mediation. This is probably one of the reasons for rejecting these amendments - and this is probably one of the reasons for this - bothers a political class which mess up altruism and solidarity as a kind of unfair competition against those who are no longer able to represent anyone but themselves! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this Movement wants to represent the change of this political class through the people who express it "Do not be afraid of the future, of change." Nothing is built on the defense of rents and of one's own particular, it goes back to everyone. Awareness, solidarity and foresight are needed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These words are not mine, Mr President, but of that revolutionary who is the Governor of the Bank of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u92	Mr President, I should like to briefly outline the agenda for G9400 so that it will remain in memory of the Government, in connection with the presentation of the future fiscal delegation, of the issue of compensation between commercial credits and debts to public administrations. Contrary to what has been said so far, compensation is largely present, but compensation is, in fact, the fastest way of keeping the commitments we have made with our accession to the 30-day, maximum 60-day European payment guidelines for companies and that will enable us not to return to building a significant debt stock such as the current one. I believe that compensation is a procedure which, among other things, guarantees the State from the point of view of revenue and which must be valued. Let me say, Mr President, in the face of an important measure like the one we are discussing today, which has EUR 40 billion in content over two years, that I am a man of small and micro-enterprises, and I would like not to place small businesses as the goal of doing any kind of political propaganda every time. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not by exchanging some euros of its financing that the national economic system is supported, but by constructive interventions such as this, and not demagogic. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u93	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u94	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendment 9.14. The issue of VAT on TIA relates relatively to companies, and in any case it is an issue that needs to be resolved from a regulatory point of view in general and final terms. I would like to point out that the provision of compensation for the costs arising from possible acceptance is not authorised at this time by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Amendment 9.15 involves a number of tax increases as compensation for citizens, who I do not believe can be further pressed in the context of consumption at the moment. With regard to amendments 9.17, 9.16 and 9.23, there is a significant increase, more than doubled, in the area of compensation, of substitute taxes, on real estate gains. Therefore, apart from the fact that the matter of compensation - as Senator Sangalli has already said - is further addressed by this House in the adoption of the agenda for the same and is, in any case, to the utmost attention of the Government and Parliament for further definition in future measures, these amendments have cover that would perhaps create greater inconveniences and inconveniences if approved rather than the benefits referred to in the basic text. On amendments 9.01 and 9.0.2, beyond (as has also been said by Senator Sangalli) the captivating argument that will certainly find acceptance in other government measures, I believe they are extraneous as a matter of the bill at our examination, so the opinion is contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u95	Mr President, the Government's opinion on the amendments and the agenda presented is in line with that of the rapporteur for a set of perfectly clear technical and substantive reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u96	Amendment 9.12 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.14. SANTANGELO (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.14 tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorables 57 Contrari 184 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.15. SANTANGELO (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.15 tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 253 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favorables 48 Contrari 195 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 917. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 917. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 254 Majority 128 Favorables 50 Contrari 196 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.16. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.16 tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 259 Senators voting 257 Majority 129 Favorables 49 Contrari 200 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.23. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bertorotta and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 9.23. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 254 Senators voting 253 Majority 127 Favorables 50 Contrari 195 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the G9400 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.0.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u98	Senator Mastrangeli, do you have a problem? MASTRANGELI (Mixed). No, Mr President, I have no problems, but during the previous vote I saw Senator Carraro vote in the position where Senator Giovanardi is now sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u99	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] You, Senator Carraro, put your hand in there and voted, I saw you. [[Protests from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u100	We'll check it out, Senator Mastrangeli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u101	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to point out that this is not just a democratic problem, but also an erarian one: every vote given on the other side is an erotic damage; it is 200 euros, which takes the other. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u102	Thank you for pointing out that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u105	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, it is good to be clear from the outset: this is not a kindergarten, but we are senators committed to following a measure in this House. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] You're from the PDL Group. Bravo! [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] GIOVANARDI (PdL). In voting hours and during dozens of votes, it can also happen - as in my case - to be two meters away to talk to a colleague. I have therefore asked another colleague for the courtesy of voting for me in my presence, as if I were raising my hand, not being physically able to run back and forth. Those who raise this problem, therefore, do so in an instrumental way, in such a way as to damage the Senate's work, because it is impossible for a person to always sit in his place for three hours, without being able to distance himself by a meter. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Mr President, at a time when the Secretary Senators verify my physical presence, there is absolutely no point in contesting it: if there is a raise in the hand, if I raise it here or if I raise it there, the vote is valid the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u106	Senator Giovanardi, we understand your justifications. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Excuse me for a moment, to be clear: the Senator Secretary has seen perfectly how things have been done, but another is the vote by show of hands, another is the electronic vote, which must be done in the way of electronic voting. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If at the time of voting you are far from your place, it will be a vote not given. I think that a moment's rest to vote can also be expected. We consider the matter to be closed; everyone must vote in their own place, pressing on their own button. Mr Azzollini (PdL). But why? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the other House there is the vote with the fingerprint, let's not forget it! FERRARA Mario (GAL). This is not the House of Deputies! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is not the House, but everyone must stand in their place to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u109	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to make it clear that it is offensive to define as a child's kindergarten who simply demands compliance with rules. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Senator Giovanardi makes gestures at the address of the M5S Group). President, I don't accept that! Don't do that. If anyone needs to reason with their heads, Senator Giovanardi, it's her and not us, because we're just trying to enforce rules. Does the democratic exercise of the vote call this an exercise in child care? Giro (PdL). Bravo, Bravo! [[Ironic applause from Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u110	We've cleared up the episode, quiet! Giro (PdL). You know everything!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u111	[[Ironic applause from Senators Giovanardi and Giro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u112	We have clarified the incident, we have reiterated the rules, now we proceed with the vote, please. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Lezzi and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 9.0.1, which was tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 254 Senators voting 252 Majority 127 Favorables 50 Contrars 185 Absent 17]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.0.02.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u115	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask you a courtesy: not because the person sitting on the benches is distracted, but because, let's say, there is a bit of a little 'casino'. Before we begin the vote, please state clearly what we are voting on, otherwise we cannot understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u116	Senator Candiani, use more appropriate terms to this Assembly. We are voting on Amendment 9.0.02. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Lezzi and other senators to vote on Amendment 9.0.2 by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 256 Senators voting 254 Majority 128 Favorables 60 Contrars 186 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u117	The G10.402 agenda (text 2) deals with the situation affecting the municipalities which have been in disrepute in the last two years. It raises a question to the Government that we consider important, that is to consider the opportunity to assign, in the three years 2014-2016, to the municipalities in distress adequate financial resources in order to contribute to the payment of the passive mass by the OSH, taking in adequate consideration the institutions of greater demographic dimension. The risk, ladies and gentlemen, is that if nothing is done, then the legislation is not changed and above all the allocation for the municipalities is not increased in failure, the consequences end up burdening all citizens who have local taxes and taxes to the maximum, on the creditor companies (because the OSH does not have the tools to pay the passive mass) and on the workers of municipalities and participated. This is an emergency and, in compliance with the principle of the law - which we share - according to which it is evidently the directors who have produced the failure to pay the consequences in the end, however, we ask a signal of attention to these municipalities by increasing the allocation of resources in the three years 2014-2016. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u118	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u119	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u120	Mr President, on Amendment 10.10 the Commission has taken the opposite view and there would still be the opposite view of the rapporteurs on the subject. With regard to Amendment 10.17, I call on Senator Candiani to withdraw, as we have done so for all the amending proposals concerning the levy scheme for the management of municipal solid waste, since the Government is preparing its own intervention on the subject of IMU and TARES and, of course, any such requests can be implemented. On Amendment 10,700/1 (correct text), tabled by Senators Zeller and Fravezzi, the opinion was in favour. The opinion is, of course, in favour of the Commission's amendment 10,700. With regard to the Commission's G10400 agenda, the opinion is naturally in favour. A request received by Senator Repetti to the Commission concerning the desirability of a different method of calculation for the purpose of allocating the fund for the municipalities in question was also received. The opinion is also in favour of the G10.402 (text 2) agenda of Senator Fornaro, as it deals with the same subject and also has the same direction of a better balance in the allocation of sums, taking into account also the demographic relationship between the municipalities. On the agenda, Mr G10.401, presented by Senator Torrisi, the opinion was in favour, as these issues were partly incorporated into the rapporteur's amendment. As far as the agenda is concerned, G10.403, as I have already pointed out, the subject of IMU and TARES is at the attention of the Government, which is preparing a measure that is also part of the Government's majority programme; therefore, I consider it acceptable as a recommendation. On amendment 10-a.0.100, I would like to call on the presenter, Giovanni Mauro, to withdraw because the subject has already been included in the rapporteur's amendment and concerns local authorities which have failed to comply with the Stability Pact for certain particular reasons. Therefore, however, we cannot refer to the Stability Pact as a whole in order to be able to intervene if necessary. We have already granted the exemption... Senator D'Alì, we are dealing with the amendments to Article 10 and not the additional ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u121	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u122	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.10 tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 253 Senators voting 252 Majority 127 Favorables 51 Contrari 193 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. Senator Candiani, on Amendment 10.17 there is an invitation to withdraw.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u123	Mr President, the subject has been discussed in the Commission and the direction is to discuss it in an overall measure. I would therefore propose that this amendment be transformed into an agenda, and therefore an address to be given to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u124	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G10.17 agenda. From there, rapporteur. The opinion was in favour. Mr Giorgetti, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the G10.17 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u127	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, since the problem raised earlier will also have a very strong impact on the future work of this Senate Chamber, I would remind you that Rule 115 of the Senate Rules states: The nominal vote by simultaneous ballot shall take place by electronic procedure. After the closing of the vote, the President, acting by the Secretaries, shall be given the list of voting senators with the indication of the vote expressed by each person. The President then declared the outcome of the vote............................................................................................................. They tell me that it would then be Senators Quaestors - and I will take note of that - who would establish... But not on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, which is primarily concerned with ensuring that every senator clearly indicates how he wants to vote, even in the case of electronic voting. Suppose a senator had an accident and had his arm cast, it is clear that to vote he will have to ask his colleague to act as prosthetic. It's the will that counts. [[Ironic comments and applause from the M5S Group.]] Given that this issue has a very important practical significance at the time when there are dozens of votes - and this is what Members of Parliament say - I would ask that, in order to avoid accidents, the College of Quaestors examine the matter in greater depth so that the will of the present senator emerges from the vote and not mechanisms that can then be distorted in the work and in the parliamentary life.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u128	All right, but the matter, Senator Giovanardi, was already closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u129	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,700/1 (correct text). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 10,700/1 (correct text), tabled by Senators Zeller and Fravezzi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 256 Senators voting 255 Majority 128 Favorables 201 Contrars 1 Absent 53]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,700, in the amended text. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 10,700 in the amended text by means of an electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 258 Senators voting 257 Majority 129 Favorable 204 Absent 53]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G10.400, G10.401 and G10.402 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. As the presenter does not insist on the vote, the G10.403 agenda, accepted by the Government as a recommendation, will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10-a of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u130	Mr President, I am naturally in favour of Amendments Nos 10-a. 0.700 and 10- bis.0.701 tabled by the Commission, while on Senator Giovanni Mauro's amendment 10- bis.0.0100 I had already anticipated an invitation to withdraw and, in any case, an opinion against it, because we cannot refer to the Stability Pact allocated to the sector to possibly justify some lack of respect for the constraint.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u131	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u132	Senator Mauro Giovanni, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u133	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, because he accepted in the spirit of his amendment what we wanted to propose with amendment 10-a.0.100. I therefore withdraw, also on behalf of the other signatories, this amendment and we are satisfied with the wording of the Commission's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u134	Amendment 10-a. 0.100 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 10-a. 0.700. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10-a. 0.700, presented by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 253 Senators voting 252 Majority 127 Favorables 192 Contrars 1 Absent 59]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10-a.0.0.701/1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 10-a.0.701. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote by simultaneous ballot, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10-a. 0.701 submitted by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 256 Senators voting 255 Majority 128 Favorable 246 Contrars 1 Absent 8]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u135	Mr President, with amendment 11.3, it is proposed that three paragraphs be inserted after paragraph 8. With paragraph 8-a, limited to the Regions subject to the financial stabilisation plans, referred to in Article 14, paragraph 22, of Decree-Law No 78 of 2010, is set at 30 September the deadline to make the communication to the creditors of the amount and the date by which the payments of the debts referred to in Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the decree-law in question will be made. With the paragraph 8-b there are specific safeguard provisions for the Regions in relation to the plans of payment of the debts referred to in the Chapter They must take account of the arrangements for the implementation of the payment plans already promoted and prepared for the recovery plan for health and public transport deficits. With paragraph 8-c, it is arranged that the greater resources deriving from the automatic increase of the measures referred to in article 16, paragraph 9, of decree-law n. 83 of 2012 (0.15 of increase of the IRAP and 0,30 of the additional IRPEF regarding the rates in force), and not used to cover the debts of the regional transport system on iron, can be destined from the Regions subject to the plan of financial stabilization to the payment of the installments of amortization of the advances of liquidity for the payment of the debts referred to in Chapter I. This obviously to meet the regions of Piedmont and Sicily and those with the plan of return also in the field of health. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u136	Mr President, I am against Amendment 11.1. With regard to amendment 11.3, the subject is certainly complex, so I would propose that Senator Barani turn it into an agenda, so that the Government can intervene in a subsequent measure. Otherwise, the opinion would be opposed for reasons of allocation of the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u137	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u138	Senator Barani, do you accept the invitation of the rapporteur and the government to turn amendment 11.3 into an agenda? Barani (GAL). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u139	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.3 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorables 52 Contrari 189 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No. We shall now proceed to the examination of an amendment to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u140	Mr President, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u141	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u142	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.1. (Senator Santangelo raises his hand.) Senator Santangelo asks for electronic voting, even if he was distracted...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u145	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, I apologise, but rule by rule, if we really must respect the rules, as I believe, the request for a secret ballot must be made by the senator. Yet I in this House, since we started voting, have heard only his authoritative voice say that the senator had asked for the secret vote and not that of the applicant. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The lifting of hands is not enough for the request under Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u146	Senator Falanga, it is not a secret vote: it is not a request for a secret vote, but a request for an electronic vote; it is not the same thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We take note of your request and ask for a more formal intervention from Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u149	SANTANGELO (M5S). I ask, as a 5 Star Movement, for this vote and for all subsequent... [[Comments from the benches of the PdL.]] Fazzone (PdL). You must ask the House! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you have to ask every time. SANTANGELO (M5S). If you accept it, I can simply raise my hand as a sign, to be faster. [[Comments from the PdL desks),]] Or I'll go over it from time to time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u150	We'll formalize this rite every time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u151	SANTANGELO (M5S). I therefore request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. FALANGA (PdL). It must be put to the vote by vote and not once and for all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We understood that, Senator Falanga: it was to speed things up. I therefore invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bulgarelli and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 12.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 248 Senators voting 246 Majority 124 Favourites 52 Contrars 187 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law and its amendment, which I invite the rapporteurs to present.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u152	Mr President, we give an explanation of amendment x1.1, with the warning that we must add to the title of the bill the words: 'and provisions for the renewal of the Board of Justice of the European Communities', since the amendment adds an article to the draft law of conversion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u153	You mean the title, Senator D'Alì? From there, rapporteur. Exactly, Mr President: the title of the bill must be supplemented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u154	The change to the title will be voted on later: first amendment x1.1 needs to be put to the vote. I therefore call on the representative of the Government to comment on amendment x1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u155	The Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u156	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment x1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). The 5 Star Movement asks, for this vote and for all the others, for the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call for the Commission's amendment x1.1 to be voted by a simultaneous vote by electronic means. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorable 181 Contrari 57 Absent 11]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Senator Giro's applause.]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 662 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 1, tabled by the rapporteurs, on which I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u157	The Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u158	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No Tit.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). The 5 Star Movement asks, for this vote and for all the others, for the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment Tit.1, tabled by the rapporteurs. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 244 Majority 123 Favorable 186 Contrars 50 Absent 8]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 662
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u160	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). Sorry, but it sounds like recreation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u161	[[Happy applause from the M5S Group. Some of the Senators of the Group stand up]] URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Senators of the Left, Ecology and Freedom announce their abstention in the final vote on this measure, not because they consider this intervention unnecessary (they considered it necessary in the course of the examination initiated in the Special Commission at the beginning of the parliamentary term and they believe it is necessary today), but because they believe that, because of the importance that has been allocated to EUR 40 billion, which I believe is the largest sum poured into the national economic system), it deserved a different attention also and a few less games during this sitting. I say this because we should all maintain a style and decide to do our duty by representing, if possible, a good example for those who look at us; an example of concentration in the matter that we have to deal with, a concentration that serves to find the best solutions. But I think, Mr President, that this sitting, unfortunately, has not distinguished itself because of the style that we all have to hope for from now on. There is much talk of institutional reforms to ensure stability, capacity and readiness for decision. Unfortunately, we are dying of instability. We thought we had a certain electoral campaign and a different result, and we also thought that we had succeeded at the end of the electoral process; instead, we find ourselves with a majority identical to the pre-election one. This forces us to make a contribution of merit measure by measure, rather than to reason on the whole of the events that should instead be addressed and resolved in this country, with a clear sign and not with a basic ambiguity. Moreover, Mr President, the need to have two rapporteurs is also a clear and clear signal of the unnatural political construction of this Government and, consequently, also of the concern that arises about the productive future of this legislature. I also make these remarks because of the way in which we voted this morning, between notes between one side and the other, and complaints of more or less vicious behavior than this or that senator. I would not want this to be an attitude aimed at anticipating the end of the Senate's life, because in these days it happens that too much and bad is being discussed in this House, regardless of the objectives that each of us must pursue in order to reform the State and its institutions for the better. We're not gonna be here. We will no longer accept behavior such as this morning, which has clouded the sense of the measure that we were to approve. Tomorrow many newspapers will talk about who made the pianist or who has extracted or not extracted the card from their place; instead, we will not talk about the 40 billion euros and how we turn them into the economic system, how public administrations must work, how the bureaucratic apparatus must be speedy and how our companies must be helped in carrying out the work they have to do on behalf of the community. I think that today we should have talked better about how to get to the procurement of supplies and works; how to verify and test the performance and the activities provided by companies in favour of public administration and the community; we should have talked about the procedures and the times, because the debts of the public administration arrive at the conclusion of a very long path also with respect to the procedures of contract and of trust. It is the whole country that is slow, not only the final payment; it is the whole procedure that leaves us bogged down in pastries that often render ineffective even the financial destinations that are appropriately assigned to the economic-productive system and the improvement of our infrastructure system. I think these were the things we should have done. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we shall abstain from voting. It is an openness, as if to say meaningful towards the Government, with which we ask to be able to discuss everything concerning interventions for the economy, development and work. Instead, we are much less passionate about long discussions that outline a different institutional system, without understanding who we think it is and how it should work for the general benefit of our national community. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Bonfrisco and Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u164	BILARDI (GAL). Mr President, the provisions we are about to adopt are expected by our mayors, by our administrators and, above all, by our companies. The anomalous thing is that in order to arrive at common sense solutions, i.e. to pay for companies that have already provided works or services to the public administration, there has been a need for a decree-law. It is therefore evident that there is some illogical arrangement upstream. I am referring to the Internal Stability Pact. Without jeopardising the Italian deficit-GDP ratio, we must return to thinking about the mechanisms of the Pact and, in part, with this decree we do so. The decree opens a window with precise endowments that will give breath to the enterprises and put in circulation money necessary to create new wealth and new employment. There seems to be room for further adjustment, considering that there should be about 15,000 million liquidity available at the Treasury. During the examination in the Budget Committee, a large amendment by the rapporteurs was accepted; the decree thus ends up addressing different aspects of the debt liability of local authorities and regions. With the further guarantee of the State, introduced during the examination by the Senate, the availability for territorial authorities is greatly extended. In short, these are a series of technical aspects that have been resolved by the text in our examination, which are aimed at freeing up otherwise blocked resources. These days' debate claims to set a limit on the level of debt and to introduce the principle of balance, if not of balance, of the current part. In this sense, the constraints of Law No 243 of 2012, implementing Article 81 of the Constitution, which will be in force from January 2014, should be rewritten. The new Article 81 provides for a balance rather than a balance of revenue and expenditure. The limit of indebtedness must be introduced with precise constraints, beyond which the Junta decays. Those who run for the leadership of a Municipality or a Region are unfortunately also in charge of the debt inherited from the previous Junta, which constitutes a great limitation and a strong brake on the government novation. It is obvious that all this leads us to further reflections. The recovery of evasion, by acting positively on revenue, becomes an important element for compliance with the Stability Pact. On capital investments, which serve to create infrastructure, it should be noted that they could cost less for the same amount of work carried out; it is sufficient to read a few specifications to understand this. It is easy to say that the state or institutions do not pay their debts; perhaps we should get into debt credit, and in some cases even re-treat them before paying them. On intermediate consumption expenditure, which is about 130 billion per annum, it is necessary to identify concretely the margins in which waste and corruption are insinuated. In fact 80% of this expenditure is made by local authorities; a definitive standardisation is necessary and common parameters are indispensable throughout Italy. How much can this item be reduced in public expenditure? It is a point on which we must reason, Government and Parliament together, because obviously they are better refined and studied ways to reduce the costs of public administration supplies, for equal services, the more resources remain to make interventions on other items of expenditure, such as capital investment, which is the subject of the intervention of the decree to our examination. In this regard, we must listen to the Court of Auditors' recent appeal, which estimates the cost of corruption in some 60 billion. In this direction too, we believe that the revision of the Pact should take place. In our country we need a new wave of simplification, simplification of bureaucratic procedures and cancellation of many bureaucratic practices. In our view, less discretionary power for public administrations certainly means less corruption. It is necessary to put a brake on those who misuse their role for personal and benefit by raising public costs. The burden of proof must therefore be reversed: the citizen must be free to undertake, do and build, while the control of the ex post public office must replace the ex ante authorisation. This is the spirit that inspired the birth of the People of Freedom, this is the path on which the then Berlusconi Government moved in 2008, from the beginning, and which is now the heritage of President Letta's left. Simplification is synonymous with lower costs for businesses and citizens and corresponds to a real financial manoeuvre, with the effect of having structural effects. The cut in the rules approved so far to simplify and not yet fully implemented will save about 8.5 billion. There is therefore ample scope for reducing the cost of bureaucracy. Therefore, not addressing the problems of public administration, simply registering them as unchangeable and thinking only about revising the Pact, would certainly be an unforgivable mistake for all of us. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u167	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the decree-law that we are going to approve today is a first component of a more substantial intervention. Indeed, the EUR 40 billion that the measure allocates, spread over two years, covers little more than 21% of the expenditure commitments entered in the budgets of regions, public health structures and local authorities, and not yet transformed into actual payments. In fact, it is a healthy injection of liquidity, which is insufficient to cover the amount of debts contracted by the State, debts which, according to the Bank of Italy's estimates, would amount to approximately EUR 90 billion, which would rise to EUR 120 billion if the amount of the State's debts to small enterprises, i.e. enterprises with less than 20 employees, and to companies operating in the health and social services sector were taken into account. We therefore expect the Government to find the necessary resources to finally end this debt of the public administration, defining first of all the quantitative contours. New liquidity could, for example, be found by allocating some of the resources that will become available through the exit from the excessive deficit procedure. It would be a second piece destined to fill the ceiling provided for by the decree-law in question. On the merits, and to link me to the non-quantifiable debt situation of the public administration, we find extremely important the provisions contained in the decree that have streamlined and simplified the procedures, those that will allow to create a system of constant monitoring over time of the level of the debts of the public administration towards own suppliers, those that provide the annual obligation of communication of the debts and a monthly obligation to update the picture of the successive payments through the electronic platform managed from the General Accounting of the State, that will finally allow to know with certainty the amount of the debts of the public administration. Equally significant are the provisions included during the work of the 5th Commission which provide for the obligation for public administrations to publish on their website the full list of debts, which ensure maximum transparency on the accounting information of the State budget; the rules concerning sanctions that more accountable to the top government figures; the rules on State guarantees for payment, which will allow to make the legislation even more effective and effective and, above all, those included concerning local authorities and municipalities, which will give them the liquidity necessary for active and expansionary policy interventions on the territories. (at 12.12 p.m.) (FRAVEZZI followed). In conclusion, this measure, the general benefits of which we have already had occasion to discuss at the time of the approval of the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document at the beginning of the parliamentary term, is already working in practice because in many cases it has guaranteed an injection of liquidity which, according to expectations, will create the conditions for a gradual economic recovery and, in particular, of domestic demand. Moreover, being compatible with the overall balance of the budget and thanks to not yet quantifiable higher revenues, it will favor the overall sustainability of our public finance. In this short period, the most useful thing we could do to realistically relaunch the economy was to provide liquidity to businesses at a time when many are de facto deprived of access to credit. Therefore, the vote of the For the Autonomies Group will be in favour of the measure. Mr President, I would ask for permission to attach the full text of the speech to the Reports of the sitting. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u168	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u171	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the work of the Commission, as well as from the reflections resulting from the general debate, we are motivated by our decision to support the measure at the vote. First of all, I would like to say that we are satisfied with the fact that, after the discussions in the Commission, those majority amendments which provided for the possibility of healing off-balance-sheet debts contracted by local authorities have been removed. In the emergency of paying the debts of the public administration it would not have been fair to share the debt of the administration that has invested properly resources on the territory with the debt generated by the bad management of a public institution. In this sense we would have liked a more definite measure that would give more attention to the Municipalities that have accumulated debts without having money to pay them, distinguishing them from the Municipalities that on the contrary have accumulated debts and have not been able to pay the suppliers because of the Stability Pact, while having the resources in cash. We are not even happy that the measure, in the end, will also benefit the municipalities that are in pathological situations of failure for poor management. But we know responsibly that we cannot let the damage fall on the suppliers, who then risk failing with damage once again devastating to the world of work. We have also shared the enlargement of those who can collect the credits accumulated by the public administration by including professionals in the measure, beyond companies. Then, however, there are aspects that we do not share at all, starting from the inadequate coverage of the decree that, in the final analysis, authorizes payment only - I repeat only - of half of the debts, and even in two years, with a definition of the stock of the contract debt that - they are words of the undersecretary Giorgetti - is anything but defined in size and distribution. It is this approximation that we do not share. It is once again to give answers which, for a large proportion of businesses and citizens, we already know are unsatisfactory at the start: not useless, but certainly not enough to generate economic recovery. In the debate held in the Commission, when we moved on to the assessment of the amendment proposing the non-attribution of part of the sanctions to the municipalities which, in 2012, exceeded the Stability Pact in order to pay the investment debts, the Government expressed a "suffering" opinion against it, returning to the Chamber. I remember the understandable embarrassment of the majority and in this regard I say that Pontius Pilate would also find himself in difficulty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We have said this and we repeat it: the new government must have more courage. The whole framework of the Stability Pact must be discussed again in Europe, repudiating the evil European economic policy, bent on the need for finance away from families and those who work. Let's tell the government that the gear wheel, the gear depicted in the coat of arms of the Republic has already stopped in most of the country and is stopping in the most important part of the country, in the North, where the wealth of which the whole country then enjoys is produced. The North locomotive is stopping, pulling the whole train. Woe to those who do not understand that, if you stop the locomotive, there is no hope for any of the cars that are behind. Minister, I repeat, it is absolutely necessary for the Government to have more courage in taking these measures. It is absolutely necessary for the Government to impose itself at European level, completely discussing in all its parts the limits imposed by a Stability Pact which, declined in its Italian form, is killing the economy. Then we do not like to hear some leading exponent of the majority speak, about this decree, as a heroic action, for there is nothing heroic at all. You see, Minister, for our way of thinking and our culture, paying for those who have worked, paying for debts is not a heroic action, but a duty of civilization. With this decree we begin well: we pay, however. What is not right - I repeat - is that all debts are not expected to be paid. This situation must be overcome with momentum, in which the delays in payments reach the peak of three years. If we really want to restore oxygen to the economy, the government must provide for the payment of all previous debts. Overall, paying all arrears would result in growth of one percentage point of GDP in all sectors. The single policy of intransigent austerity applied by the Monti Government has produced a fall of 4.5 percentage points of GDP in just two years. Today in Italy it takes about one million and 700,000 jobs only to bring the employment rate back to the levels before the crisis. A further 123,000 jobs are at risk in 2013, after the 674,000 lost in five years. Between 2008 and 2013, the country lost 2.4 percent of employment, 6 percent of GDP and 4 percent of household consumption, over 20 percent of investment. The fundamental necessity today is one and only one: to restart development. There is no work without development, this seems to be an obvious... but so it is. These are the words of Minister Flavio Zanonato, who, moreover, is certainly an expert on the subject of obviousness. So we ask the Government, how can it think to restart the productive activities, to put our companies in a position to be competitive on other markets, to create new work, in a country where the first cause of failure of the companies themselves is the State, which does not pay the debts of its suppliers? Of course, the government knows that if by the end of the year it has not changed the Stability Pact, removing an now unsustainable grip of austerity, from next year there will be fiscal obedience-disobedience and objection in the North Regions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is clear to all of us that we have been saying this for a long time: strictness is the only way to die; resources are needed, and debts must be paid, fresh resources must be put back into circulation quickly, in order to stop the bleeding of jobs and to reverse the course. Let us not, please - I tell the Government - flag the austerity, as was done rhetorically on the occasion of the Feast of the Republic: we need serious choices, not touches of whitewashing, which, in the absence of a concrete growth action, become only commercial operations, useful - yes - to bleach the consciences of an inadequate policy to understand and give concrete answers to those who do business and work. We do not shy away from our political responsibilities: we have worked responsibly to facilitate the path of this decree, presenting only a handful of amendments, precisely to avoid inflating the work of the Commission and the House. We - it should be remembered - since the first day of the Government, since the vote of confidence in the Government, we have said that we would support any measure useful to the economy and to the recovery of the North. Well, that is the reason why we will support this measure today; a measure that does not convince us in its entirety, but of which we responsibly share the inevitability and urgent need for the many enterprises, for the many municipalities and for the many workers in the North. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u174	MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Mr President, Mr Senators and Senators, yesterday in the general discussion Senator Lanzillotta and Senator Del Barba reminded us of the genesis of this measure, which stems from one of the last acts, perhaps the last, of the Monti Government and becomes, growing, the first act, one of the first acts, of the Letta Government. Let us hope that it marks a reversal of the trend, as was also mentioned here yesterday. We want to look with optimism and confidence: a hand of the barometer of the Italian economy that from the bad weather slowly goes towards the beautiful one, or at least variable. This measure has been made possible by the fact that we have achieved and we have gone further, and for the better, than the recommendations of the European Union: we have kept the deficit below 3%, I would say also abundantly, which has allowed us to free up resources, although we have obviously made the planned objectives worse; while remaining below the deficit, we have been able to tackle a dramatic problem for our economy. Yesterday too many, too many incorrect and ungenerous things were said about the action of prompt intervention and rehabilitation carried out from the middle of 2011 to the present day. On the other hand, we should all - and I am referring in particular to the parties of the majority - be proud of the work we have done: to have responded to the financial markets - and I would say to the world - by our own strength, not making us a commissioner, without the external help that, precisely as such, would have been more conditioning and would have severely attacked the people, the families and the weakest companies. With the most regular accounts and European Union rules more open to growth and employment, we can put together, we can combine proper budgetary discipline with measures and incentives for the real economy. Therefore, I encourage the Letta Government to pursue this dual objective, and I would also like to say to President Letta, to whom my personal esteem goes and that of our Group, however, that he has more confidence in his Government. The government that presides is its Government, it is our Government, it is not a friendly Government, it is not a strange Government: it is the Government of the Republic, which has to face with a large majority dramatic problems for the economy and for the institutions, for the national community. And then, to return to us, the release of debt payments goes in this direction, because it brings liquidity into the system, as has been widely mentioned, and because of course it relieves the financial pressure of our companies. In the discussion that took place the release of payments of due debts was linked to the levers to restart and start growth in our country. I believe that Senator Uras, who invited us yesterday to celebrate this measure in a few months' time, not today, is right, because it is true that we are talking about a measure that affects at least 5% of our country's GDP, but we are also talking not about the reason for the crisis, but about one of the factors that led to a longer economic depression within the crisis. We are talking about a measure that perhaps soothes, but does not heal, does not heal a great wound; as Senator Bonfrisco said today, a vulnus that was perpetrated by the State, by public administrations towards the market, but not by the large financial markets, but by the real economy market, a vulnus perpetrated against the domestic market, what is around the 8,000 bell towers, the 8,000 municipalities of our nation. To this market the State in its entirety has given a bad example: it has not paid its suppliers in the agreed times, it has paid them late, so as to compromise the economic and financial stability of those enterprises and, as Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri recalled yesterday, this is detrimental to our social pact, it is detrimental to a rule of law. The proverb says that the bad currency drives out the good currency and this is a bad example, because from the state to private companies the late payment then moved from the companies, especially the big ones, towards the small and medium suppliers, and thus to scale. The causes of this delay are widely known, but they will have to be taken into account in order not to maintain this permanent state of delays. If we look at these causes, at reading them (the Stability Pact, late transfers, the accounting system, linear cuts), we find that they are all causes that denote the selfishness of the public, an ability to actually overshadow the weaker positions, the weaker economies, and for this reason we do not subscribe to the measure in the chapter of growth. Of course, it brings liquidity, but we consider it in the account of an act that had to be carried out in order not to be, we state, we public institutions, those who vex in our country the economic and entrepreneurship world. However, businesses, I would like to remind you, need a lot of other things. Of course they need debt to be paid, but they need more intervention, and in this direction the government's action must go. Italian companies must be supported in their capacity to innovate, in their capacity to internationalise, to adapt their economic dimension, to capitalise, to increase their size as enterprises. This is what we ask the government and we ask it to happen quickly. Finally, there is another disconcerting aspect to this unediting affair, which I believe is touched on by all the groups and rapporteurs, namely that we have gone on in spans over the past few years. I wonder if it is possible that a country that has one of the first economies in the world, despite everything, can afford to formally conceal the debt, not to make sure, to be indicated by third parties, however authoritative, the estimate of this debt. I think, however, that a serious state must know absolutely how many debts it owes, direct and connected. We have acted in this direction in the Commission by trying to work also through the system of state guarantees to resolve the credit, obviously without financial burdens, and to ensure that from the 20 plus 20, insufficient to deal with at least 90 billion debts, we could have the resources to be able to enlarge the audience, not to create children and stepchildren in companies and above all not to create companies exodus even in this circumstance. Mr President, I recall that, of course, if we had drawn up the decree, we would have formulated it differently. We have brought to the Commission a number of amendments which have been collected. I thank the President of the Commission, the rapporteurs and the Government for the changes that have been made, but certainly much more could be done. Nevertheless, we are voting in favour of this measure as it is important to secure the social cohesion pact in our nation. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u175	I would inform the House that, regardless of the timetable, we will complete the examination of the measure with the final vote and then there will be some speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u178	Mr Lezzi (M5S). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say at once that our vote will be in favour only in order to promote the measure that accelerates payment to businesses, especially at this time. We are doing this despite the inexplicably bureaucratic process, in our view, and despite our amendments that were all aimed at simplification, it has been left very complex. It is clear that this Government's intention, which we define by the extravagant understandings, is to make a great publicity with the slightest effort. In fact, I invite colleagues to reread the explanation of vote at the DEF of the 5 Star Movement in the part that refers to the payment of debts of the public administration, in which it is remembered that nothing is mentioned regarding the hidden debt, in particular the at least 100 billion euros remaining due to the enterprises, if in the estimate made by the Bank of Italy they consider also the creditor enterprises with less than 20 employees, that - according to the definition ESA 95 - is not included in our official public debt. For the DEF, the additional 100 billion debt is as if it did not exist and has been programmed by ignoring the real size of the debt. The new government is continuing along the same lines, with the addition of making fun of businesses because, despite the statements, proclamations and advertising that we have had the opportunity to listen these days on television networks and also in the newspapers, Senator D'Alì, as rapporteur of the measure in question today, announces that the decision of greatest importance taken by the Budget Committee is the one that expects that in 2014 the entire stock of debt against companies will be paid. Now, unless there is another budget Commission that I do not know of, I do not understand that in the one in which I am also Vice-President it was decided what the rapporteur announced. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, the amendment adopted - we shall try to analyse it here - states: In order to allow the full payment of public administration debts accrued at 31 December 2012, as well as due to justified financial needs, the Ministry of Economy and Finance may authorise the transfer of State guarantee to national, Community and international financial institutions. Therefore, the Ministry can authorize, it is only one possibility; other would have meant the must authorize. Moreover, how could he commit himself if the full payment of debts - and I quote the text again - is an illustrious and mysterious unknown? Let us also reflect on this other inscribed: -... as well as on reasons for economic and financial needs. What are they? We translate: it is like inviting an entrepreneur on the verge of bankruptcy to pay his debts when his economic and financial conditions allow him to do so. Therefore, in essence, the Government has not assumed any obligation to guarantee the claims of the companies. It would be honest, in the presence of the real intention to pay the debt, to act as a worthy institution, starting with quantifying the debt. Only then would it be possible to plan its payment through advance deposits and loans from the Cassa, or through the issuance of public debt bonds, but moving away from the assumptions referring to the financial and foreign institutions mentioned by Senator D'Alì, including the International Monetary Fund. Do not jump in the chair for the indignation that gives you the issue of additional public debt. In fact, there is no need to increase the debt. The public administration's debts to companies are already public debt, if they are guaranteed by the State as provided for in the synthetic amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Public debt is always such, regardless of whether it is BTP or commercial. This too must be honoured and recognised in the total amount of public debt. It's a due act. We would finally tell the Italians the truth about the real value of the debt that weighs on their shoulders and perhaps we would start to take that path to regain the political credibility that President Letta aspires to. The fact that we continue to underestimate is that careful planning for debt repayment would have an impact on the deficit ratio - GDP and debt-to-GDP. This assessment would allow us to understand whether the release of the entire amount of debts, in addition to meaning a due act towards creditors, now a step away from the abyss, can be decisive to remove the stalemate in which the country is pouring in creating positive effects on GDP. We are trenching ourselves on debt, on the numerator therefore, perhaps it would be appropriate to begin to dwell on the denominator, the gross domestic product, and therefore on the productive potential that entrepreneurs and professionals could generate if they returned to the possession of malt. Turning to another kind of assessment, the work done in the budgetary committee on this measure was, in our view, very disappointing, especially for the practice, method and results achieved. It is understood that the self-convoked meetings reserved for the majority only - but in which the League was also included, so we invite to regard the group also for the election of the future presidents of Commissions and Junta - have been aimed at the enslavement to the Government, and only the pride of party has prevented the acceptance of those demands, ours, that the Movement has presented with the sole aim of simplifying the procedures to the enterprises and that they would not have generated any greater burden for the finances of the State. Between one postponement and the other, with calls postponed from hour to hour for almost the entire week last week, we managed to tirefully tear away only the obligation for the administration to indicate the date for payment. In fact, the time devoted to the debate on the measure, its effects and any improvements to be made has been reduced to the bone, giving rise only to changes that can be defined as flagship, to be displayed in the newspapers, but that in fact will produce only modest and very short-sighted results. However, I regret that my fellow Commissioners, including the rapporteurs Mr D'Alì and Mr Santini, have also expressed their appreciation of our proposals for amendments. It is mortifying to find only one in the final text and to find ourselves forced to return to the Chamber. It is so mortifying especially at this time of enormous difficulties for the enterprises behind which, let us remember, there are families. It is mortifying to see how the punitive intent against the Movement prevails over the common good. He has done everything he can to keep our proposals out of the way. I therefore hope that the Budget Committee, on behalf of the Group and the Commissioners of the 5 Star Movement in that Commission, will be given greater adherence to its role and less dependence on the Government. We would avoid continuous postponements, which are not respectful of the people who are part of the Commission, we would give more consideration to the Italians of the work we do and, above all, to the small results that are produced. If we worked in a private company, with such levels of productivity and with such disrespect they would send us all home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Then, if politics is discredited, let us not complain anymore. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement I formally ask my fellow Commissioners for a decisive change of course in the organization of the work, which will henceforth have to produce what we all promise, and therefore growth, development, simplification and deburocratization in order to support companies. I repeat the vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u181	MANDELLI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the seriousness of the economic crisis in our country calls for the immediate adoption of incisive and timely measures aimed at restoring a climate of confidence and hope in the future. The human dramas that we all witness every day directly call citizens into question as people, even before they are economic subjects. Although we do not forget the fiscal discipline which the European treaties oblige us to do, we cannot fail to take into account the scale of this crisis, which is reflected in a social as well as an economic emergency. In other words, the cohesion of our social order is at stake today, with the future of our companies. It is too precious a good that we must safeguard at all costs. The emergency therefore requires us to intervene immediately. The measure that the Senate is preparing to approve is in fact of unprecedented economic scope: it is in fact, after years of austerity measures, the first maneuver of expansionary sign that we give to the Italian economy. It allows the payment of arrears by public administrations towards the business system, giving impetus to the economy. The current economic situation has opened up new perspectives also in the orthodoxy of the doctrine that is the background to the policies of close coordination of the budgets of the European Union, finally focusing attention on the real problem of any market economy: growth. This is now the crucial paradigm of the new political dimension and EU governance itself, on which we need to discuss with our European partners: economic and monetary union exists and has a future if it holds its growth prospects. There's no other way. A first element that characterizes the specificity of this decree is based on the fact that the use of the greater emissions previewed from the same is in reality, in great part, not already destined to the financing of new expenses, but to the speed of the payment in terms of cash of commitments of expenditure already perfected in previous years, whose effects are moreover partially discounted in the tendencys. This is the attempt to remedy the ancient Italian problem of an excess of previous payments, I would say stranded in public administrations, which has a double cause. The first comes from the fact that for many years our public authorities, in particular local authorities, have been subject to strong financial constraints because of the Internal Stability Pact. Many local authorities have accumulated cash reserves and, therefore, although they have liquid resources they have not been able to spend them. The second is that in Italy we still have a criterion of legal competence which presides over the drawing up of the budgets of public administrations, rather than, instead, a criterion of economic competence, as happens in the rest of the European countries. We would be hypocritical if we said that, thanks to this decree, we would solve the problem of late payments by the public administrations in a structural way. Nor would it be enough simply to transpose the new Community directives which impose time limits on payments. In fact, an important contribution will be made by Directive 211/7 against late payment in commercial transactions, a text that has already been adopted in Italy. The Senate, with the changes made to the Commission, has expanded the possibilities of government intervention, authorising it to issue state guarantees to cover the entire stock of debt. By 2014 with reasonable certainty it will be possible to pay all the debt accrued at 31 December 2012. It should also be pointed out that the amount of the debt is not known, but the mechanism introduced with the changes to which I mentioned earlier will allow the government to cope with the expenses. I would like to point out that in the last two years some extraordinary measures have been adopted, even if not the exceptional nature of the measure under consideration, for which new expenditure has been found by means of the use of government debt securities. However, unlike the previous cases, this decree concerns very significant amounts and is part of the re-determination of the objective balances for the current year and 2014, in the specific eventuality foreseen pursuant to article 10-a, paragraph 6, of the accounting law, or in the presence of a special report submitted to the Parliament by the Government. For the first time, therefore, due to the serious economic situation and the undue liquidity needs of the business system, the balance targets are adjusted outside the ad hoc instruments provided for in the accounting law for the cycle of the annual financial decision to create the spaces to be used with the measure under consideration. However, the assessment of the macroeconomic impact of the measure cannot be without an overall assessment of the performance of the public accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the People of Freedom's vote in favour of this measure, which appears to be able to restart domestic demand more quickly since the second half of the current year. This is certainly an extraordinary intervention, which focuses on the two-year period 2013-2014, but whose effects are expected to affect even in the following years, being aimed not already at financing new expenditure, but at healing, for the benefit of the private sector, critical situations in payment flows that should still be brought to completion. It should be emphasized that the connotation of extraordinaryness of the provision does not imply a departure from the path of financial consolidation on which the Government remains firmly committed, but rather constitutes a solid prerequisite for the country to be placed in the condition of overcoming this phase of emergency, relocating on a medium-term sustainability plan also its own balances of public finance. In the near future, our Group will be committed both to reducing the suffocating tax burden and to simplifying bureaucracy and to introducing rules that can create new jobs. Only on this road will we be able to guarantee a path of sustainable growth for our country and, therefore, a more serene future for Italians. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups and the Senators Sangalli and Del Barba. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u184	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, the measure that we are passing and which has already found an important precedent in this House of the Senate when we unanimously voted on the instrument of support for the decree presented by the Government, which referred to many of the parts that we then find in the text, is extremely important. I say this because I have heard many things in the debate these days. I also agree with those who say that in order to drink to the measure it will be necessary to wait for its actual results, especially in terms of the rapid transfer of money to companies. But they are also to invite the Senate - the Senate of the House, the Senate of the Budget Commission, the Senate of the Special Commission that has worked on this provision - not to sing the mass dead before it is necessary. This is an extremely important measure. I believe that in the annals of our Republic an intervention of equal economic dimension has never been seen, because the 40 billion of which we are now talking easily corresponds to about 77-78 billion lire, that is four times, in the years in which the public debt was built, a normal financial one. Therefore, this is not a light measure: it is a very heavy measure, the macroeconomic effects of which will probably not be extraordinary in the short term, although they can be estimated, over the next three years, at 1-1,2 points of gross domestic product. At a time when we have become accustomed to a stable recession, this is not an industrial policy intervention, but it is certainly important from the point of view of the effects on gross domestic product. It will have beneficial effects, it marks a reversal of trend and it is necessary that it also marks a discontinuity. And that is the most important aspect that we will be committed to. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we allow Senator Sangalli to make his explanation of vote in acceptable conditions. Sangalli (PD). Thank you, Mr President. It is therefore necessary that it marks a discontinuity in the sense that, once this debt stock has been paid, in the coming years, no more will be produced immediately. That is why we have advised the Government - as a Group and then as a Commission - to assess mechanisms for clearing debts and loans that can avoid the formation of future debt stocks towards companies. It would also require a comprehensive reform of the Internal Stability Pact and an evaluation and review of public accounts, in order to best harmonise the criteria between the State, the Regions, local authorities and the public system as a whole. A more active use - which is also available - of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti nell'oliare il meccanità economico should also be assessed. EUR 40 billion is an important intervention: they do not represent the whole of the public debt that we have behind us, but they are still a significant share. Perhaps this measure will also make it possible to clarify the data, because in its application it has been envisaged that the data on the debts of public administrations should reach the Ministry of Economy and Finance by a certain date. There is also a requirement for all administrations to register for the electronic platform. I believe that this is a successful operation, which had never been successful before. There is therefore a possibility of making an assessment, not with the pannometer, as many have done and as I have also heard in this House. In 2011 EUROSTAT - in which, for Italy, there is ISTAT - estimated in 67 billion euros the public debt stock of public administrations to companies. (at 12.51) (Follow Sangalli). The Bank of Italy in 2012 estimated it to be 90 billion euros, 10% of which had been sold pro solute and had therefore been moved by the companies to the banks. In the Special Commission, the representatives of the Bank of Italy have told us that part of this amount must be considered functional debt: that is, essentially, the normal movement of the trend between debts and debt stocks. We are faced with a very serious situation and it is also serious that, in order to find the data, we need to do emergency operations like these; but we are still faced with a situation that we are facing as never before and that for many years has not been addressed at all. I would like to add that this measure is made possible by the fact that we have previously settled our public accounts and that we can go to Europe with some dignity to discuss with other European countries. I therefore ask the Government to consider the fact that, while we are bringing out a share of public debt that the markets actually knew and that they simply did not count, similar things must also happen in other European countries, in which the debt stock they have must come out with equal clarity and which must also be accounted for with similar precision for them. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco and Luciano Rossi.]] Otherwise we will always find ourselves playing a different weight in Europe. We are told that we have hidden a quantity of debt: in reality we are making it emerge and we have adopted restrictive actions of the economy and recessionary actions, in the last 12-15 months we have charged our people very high prices, we have sweaty tears and blood to put in place these resources for our businesses and to meet their needs. Germany, Austria and the countries with Triple A must also apply exactly the same transparency! We must ask very strongly. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups]] This measure allows the establishment of a state fund to ensure liquidity with an immediate budget, but it also puts in place a measure that will allow in the coming months to counter guarantee, compared to financial operators, the payment of the share of debts that will emerge further and, above all, to meet the current debt, that which risks becoming stock and that, therefore, is extremely negative. But I want to make the most of the work done in recent months by the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies. Think that there was a great deal of concern among the creditor companies with a greater title towards the State: the construction companies, the companies that have the largest share of stranded in the public administration. It was intended to allow these companies to obtain the payment of debts if in accordance with the DURC, that is, with the single document of contributory regularity, taking, however, as a reference date not that on which the companies had carried out the work and were entitled to be paid, but the one in which they had applied for the payment, that is years later. We have managed to redefine the dates, to make sure that a debt corresponds to an interpretative justice, a more friendly, more direct way of relationship between state and business. Compensation is introduced, although not yet adequate. I conclude because I see that the timetable recommends the conclusion, even if this - in five years of parliamentary experience, from the last parliamentary term to the present day, I think it is the most important measure that this House has found itself to approve and what more than any other can sap and restart our economy. But on two conditions, which I have already mentioned in the intervention I made on the Senate's device and which I want to reiterate. The first condition, which we have seen - unfortunately - confirmed also during the hearing of representatives of the General Accounting Office of the State, is that, in the face of a measure itself complex (and it could not be different from this), all the mandarins of the public administration do not start to create a quantity of difficulties for the money to go from the State to the enterprises. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and LN-Aut groups and Senator Molinari.]] Because the mandarins (sorry if I call them so), from the General Accountant of the State to the great directors-general of the Ministries, find value, in their nobility as Chinese mandarins, precisely in the fact of being able to block the outcome of the political decision, hindering the immediate operation of certain decisions. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and LN-Aut groups and Senator Molinari.]] Politics, governments and parliaments are paying an excessively high price for bureaucracy which is sometimes irresponsible in relation to measures. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups and Senator Filippi.]] We have understood that there is an inability to coordinate and we have understood this by listening to the General Accounting of the State. If we want a new budget law, a new system of national accounts we must think of a direction, and this direction is either placed at the top or there is no direction. It cannot be dealt with by a minister, either by Parliament or by a Commission. Democratic institutions must be occupied with it by the use of great skills, experience and responsibility at the highest level. The second and last issue I want to mention is that we have done a lot of work knowing that the first ones on which this difficulty of payment affects, this carved of the State are mainly small and very small enterprises. We have set ceilings that make it possible for small businesses to stop work if their interventions are not paid pro rata; we have set a priority for sub-contracting companies over the contractor. We have done all this, Mr Undersecretary and my fellow Members, because we know that if a public administration is a bad payer, it will cause everyone to be a bad payer. Since 2002 the European 30-day payment directives have not been complied with, which are in force among private companies, because the public administration has allowed everyone to derogate from a law. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bruno.]] Who paid for this waiver? They paid the little ones, who were the bank to the clients, they were the bank to the big ones, they were the bank to the state and they were the bank to the same banks, when they were in trouble. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] These are matters which, with this measure, Mr Undersecretary, we seek to heal, without thinking that we have done the French revolution, but that we have put back in line a few things, with a government that has assumed responsibility, having done a job that has allowed these results to be achieved first. Today we all assume our share of responsibility so that the measure does not run into the first Ministry or the first implementing decree, but is an immediate measure applicable to our companies. Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, ScpI, LN-Aut and GAL groups and Senator Uras. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u185	Colleagues, the coordination proposal C1 has been tabled, the text of which has already been distributed, which I would ask the rapporteurs to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u186	Mr President, we give it as an illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u187	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote by show of hands the proposal for coordination C1. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u188	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 35 of 8 April 2013 laying down urgent provisions for the payment of debts due by the public administration, for the financial rebalancing of territorial authorities, as well as for the payment of taxes by local authorities. Provisions for the renewal of the Board of President of Justice of the tax authorities, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be authorised to make any changes to the formal coordination which may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 254 Majority 128 Favorable 247 Absent 7]] The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, ScpI, LN-Aut and GAL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u189	Colleagues, the items on the agenda are so exhausted. Therefore, also in order to allow the Commissions to convene in relation to their respective work programmes, I note that the afternoon sitting scheduled for today will no longer take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u192	Borioli (PD). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the historic judgment handed down yesterday by the Turin Court, which sentenced the Swiss industrialist Stephan Schmidheiny, who, together with the recently deceased Belgian baron Louis De Cartier, responsible for one of the most serious environmental, health and social tragedies that our country's industrial history has ever produced and known, to 18 years of age for the crime of manslaughter. I am referring - and I think it is known - to the Eternit affair and to the long, and unfortunately still destined to last, chain of mourning that it produced in the four sites where the plants of the group were located in Italy and, in particular, in Casale and throughout Monferrato, which is a fundamental part of the territory from which I come. The figures for that disaster, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, are impressive: we are talking about just under 1,900 deaths in Monferrato Casalese alone and almost 3,000 deaths in Italy. Unfortunately, a figure destined to grow again because of the long period of latency of asbestos pathologies and, among them, the most lethal: that pleural mesothelioma that does not give way and whose epidemiological peak is expected in the coming decades. It took almost twenty years of struggles and battles on the part of workers and their organizations, on the part of the family members of the victims and local institutions, first to get heard and then to embark on the complicated path along the road to justice. And it took over ten years of investigation, investigation and acquisition of scientific documentation to access yesterday's sentence. And not by chance - I believe - the chief prosecutor of Turin Giancarlo Caselli said that it opens a new page in the legal culture in the matter of work in our country. But, in addition to the legal effectiveness of this sentence, it also compensates an entire community and thousands of families of dignity and humanity offended in the long season of obstinate negationism and an attempt to degrade the reasons of the injured parties, trying to monetize that tragedy by offering families and local institutions a hasty compensation in exchange for their constitution as a civil part. I would like to mention, in particular, an attempt not more than a year and a half ago, which was strongly rejected thanks to the obstinacy of the local community and the courage of a woman: Romana Blasotti [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] 87-year-old President of the Association of the Family of the Victims of Asbestos. Many of these 87 years this woman has spent them in the battle to give justice to the death of her husband, daughter, sister, cousin, grandson and all those who shared struggles and suffering with her. That is why - I apologise if I steal one more minute and finish - I think it is appropriate to say that, if yesterday's judgment is the mature fruit of the intelligent work of the judiciary and the investigative authorities, it must be written first of all to a long cultural and moral march of which the weakest have been the main protagonists, those victims of a tragedy that the Turin court yesterday made an outpost of a new frontier on the rights, civilization and culture of work and enterprise. However, I would like to conclude by stressing this: yesterday's judgment, ladies and gentlemen, marks a very important positive moment, but at the same time it is a port point and the beginning of a path on which many questions arise, which I briefly refer to three points. The first question concerns the concrete delivery of the compensations that have been recognised in the judgment, for which all the commitment of the Government will be necessary to obtain from the Swiss authorities the recognition and application of that same sentence, because the citizen who must give these compensations is a Swiss citizen and therefore subject to the laws of his community. The second concerns the right of access to compensation for families who were linked in their constitution as a civil party to the other defendant, to the newly deceased Belgian. We are talking about almost a hundred families who risk seeing their right completely cancelled. The last point is, of course, what the future battle for justice will be, because the effects of this judgment apply to deaths and diseases acquired before 2008, while, unfortunately, the disease continues to reap victims. On this too, I believe that it will take all the efforts of the State - of course the Government, but also of this Parliament - to be close to us and to find the solutions necessary to give continuity to a battle for justice that is not only the family members of the victims, but is the property of our entire civilization and our community. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups and the Carraro and Mauro Giovanni senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u195	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Party of European Socialists has thrown the mask again. He did so during the votes of an important decree, which unblocks the payment of 40 billion debts of public administrations. A late and partial measure, but urgent and necessary. The 5 Star Movement has interpreted this moment with seriousness and consistency, in merit and style, attending, bringing its proposals improvement and voting finally in favor, so that, moreover, companies were guaranteed the possibility of access to these benefits - which I recall are a right - without additional costs of bureaucracy and for compliance with the criteria of equity and solidarity in payment flows. This did not have reciprocity on the part of colleagues. We recorded a surreal climate with the double votes of the pianists: Senators Roberto Formigoni, multi-stakeholder, and Giovanardi, who defined our complaints as asylum, but fell on things that they teach at kindergarten not to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It has been rejected the proposal to create a revolving fund for the granting of soft loans to small enterprises: in favour of the compact 5 Star Movement and opposed PD, PDL and Civic Choice, abstained SEL. It is a vote that humiliates artisans and small entrepreneurs of the North-East and of the entire country, which sees the parties pay electoral refunds in advance, while their credits must wait and continue to do so again, since perhaps a third of the debts have been unlocked [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Lezzi's proposal for the refinancing of a guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises was rejected by means of a virtuous mechanism which would enable political parties and movements to voluntarily allocate a share of the electoral refunds. In favor was only the 5 Star Movement. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No! ENDRIZZI (M5S). You can correct it, if you feel so. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Not to miss her. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are addressing this House and not individual people. Senator Endrizzi, please conclude because your time is running out. ENDRIZZI (M5S). It also rejected the proposal to suspend the collection of claims against the creditor undertakings of the public administration: if it had been approved, the records of Equitalia would have been at least temporarily suspended. Now, in style and in substance, we have had a bad example of coherence and responsibility. I ask you with what face you are going to talk to workers, small entrepreneurs and artisans, if you have not been able to accept proposals without costs and without additional burdens that would have only brought improvements? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u196	I invite the Parent Company to have these interventions carried out during the examination of the draft laws. I am sorry that many people who took part in the debate were unable to listen to this speech because it was done at the end of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure, no protests on the deliberations of the Senate are permitted: if you speak, they do not appear in the Minutes and in the Minutes of the sitting. I therefore ask you to avoid such statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u199	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to point out that Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure provides for the possibility of proposing parliamentary inquiries. In April, I proposed the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Health Mistakes and Wastes, which was allocated to the 12th Adopted on 15 May. I would remind you, Mr President, that when the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry, as stated in paragraph 2 of Rule 162, is signed by at least one tenth of the members of the Senate, the Commission is obliged to meet within five days and you must set a time limit to report to the House. I would therefore ask you to include the document containing the proposal for the establishment of the parliamentary committee of inquiry which I have tabled, in accordance with Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure, on the agenda of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u202	CASSON (PD). Mr President, my very brief speech is related to that of Senator Borioli just now, about the asbestos deaths and the sentence issued yesterday by the Turin Court of Appeal, to recall an institutional activity of the Senate. As a Group of the Democratic Party, but not only that, we have proposed the establishment of a Senate Committee of Inquiry to deal with accidents at work and occupational diseases, because we are faced with a real tragedy, which affects thousands of people every year. The proposal that we have tabled has already been assigned to the Commission, but I would like to ask the presidency of the Senate to consider it. By analogy with the subject, I would also ask the Senate Presidency to urge the Defence Commission to examine the Commission's proposal for an inquiry into the deaths and diseases that have affected the military who have operated in war scenarios and have been allegedly affected by depleted uranium or nanoparticles or have been subjected to incorrect vaccinations from a scientific point of view. They are in both cases tragic human events and already in the past legislature the Senate has had the opportunity to intervene in a concrete and effective way, even with very correct institutional and legislative proposals. Therefore, it would be appropriate for that work to be completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u203	As usual, your proposals will be taken to the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u206	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 79 of our Rules of Procedure, I declare that the draft law no. 200 and 205 are made up of my group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u207	Senator De Petris, the Presidency takes note of all the resulting regulatory effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u210	SCILIPOTI (PdL). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a very brief comment in a loud voice, with reference to the fact that, in my opinion, it would be good to avoid certain terms in this House when the senators mentioned in the debate are not present. Terms such as 'plurindagato' are in fact very heavy and perhaps also very populist: many times we fill our mouths with what we say, but one thing is to say it outside and at particular times, another is to say it in this House, where all the senators present, without any exclusion, do serious, concrete work and in the interests of the community. If, therefore, there are political assessments which do not agree with our thinking, it is good that they are expressed in this House, but it is also good to have a decent attitude both in form and in verbal language, strong when it is used, in the interests of the first of all of this House and of the role we have, both inside and outside. Having said that, I would like to make a reflection on Equitalia. Many people fill their mouths, but before they do so they should know the facts, that is to say what they have done and what Members of Parliament are doing - not only in the PdL, but also in other lists in the Senate - which have brought and are carrying out battles to protect as much as possible small and medium-sized enterprises and Italian families. Who speaks to you has been spokesperson and has also obtained a result I do not say exalted, but discreet regarding the incorrect behavior of Equitalia with regard to some treatments used against small and medium-sized enterprises. See, for example, the problem facing small and medium-sized enterprises when they had a dispute and, consequently, the seizure of assets was at risk. For a few months - for three or four, to be precise - with companies that have had problems and are in difficulties Equitalia has made an agreement that allows them to continue to operate in the interest of the enterprise itself and of their family. Having said that, I have personally made a proposal that has been shared by most of the colleagues on your right, dear friends of the 5 Star Movement, and to your left, which is that of the abolition of 9 percent of the bow and an interest rate on how much it was due to reach a maximum of 2 percent, reducing the interest that could be of 13, 14, 9 or 10 percent. This means that we are working seriously together with the other colleagues who think differently from us and it would be appropriate that, at 360 degrees, without populism on some subjects, we all put ourselves around a table to bring out something concrete and real. If there really were to be the prerequisites for a common battle, there are proposals for laws that could be signed and, in case someone didn't want to sign them because he doesn't want to share his signature with that of someone who belongs to PD, PdL or SEL, he takes them in full, with small modifications, and present them independently. On these issues we can confront each other and we can certainly achieve serious results, in the interests of the community, because the time for words is over and the time for concrete and real events has come. Stop talking: let's measure ourselves on real, real and concrete issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u211	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-33.ana.u212	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, June 5, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.20 a.m.
