ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, gave a reading of the minutes of the afternoon sitting on 3 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u2	I ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u4	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order, in particular on Rule 16. I do not think that we can start work without stigmatizing what happened yesterday both in this House and in the Commissions... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussolini, any intervention... mussolini (PdL). ...unless the Rules of Procedure of the Senate have changed and we have not been informed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussolini, please, as you know, the rule is at the end of the session. Please, that's the rule. Mussolini (PdL). But why, Mr President, does a senator take the floor and allow himself to be employed as a jaculator? [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u5	No, I gave her the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u6	Mussolini (PdL). For juggling on our skin, because the Commission worked until 11 p.m.! [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM M5S BANKS. Bravo! Mussolini (PdL). See, ma'am? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, you will have the floor at the end of the sitting. [[Senator Mussolini's microphone is disabled.]] I'm sorry. Mussolini (PdL). The Senator Quester makes accounts for electricity and officials and the cost we charge to the 4 Star Movement Group! [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 298. In the session of 3 April last the Assembly, when examining the conditions required by article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution has deliberated the deletion of paragraph 1 of article 2 of the decree-law pursuant to article 78, paragraph 4, of the Regulation. The rapporteur, Senator Bubbico, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Bubbico.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u10	Mr President, I have asked for a long time to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u11	We've moved on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u12	PALMA (PdL). I'm sorry, but you can't deny me the word. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorry, we've set some rules. PALMA (PdL). What rules? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Perhaps you were not present when I read it in this House. PALMA (PdL). Excuse me, it is not a problem of rules that are established. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In the meantime, we have an agenda and we continue with the agenda as we have begun. PALMA (PdL). So you, Mr President, deny me the floor on the order of business? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We started with the agenda. PALMA (PdL). I asked if you would deny me the floor on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At the end of the session, he'll have... [[Protests from the PdL Group.]] We have begun the examination of the agenda. PALMA (PdL). What does that mean? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I gave Senator Bubbico the floor for the affair. PALMA (PdL). I asked to intervene and you gave the floor to Senator Bubbico pretending not to see me asking for the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm talking to you right now, and I'm inviting you to follow the rules we gave you. [[Protests from the PdL Group.]] PALMA (PdL). The rules are those of the Rules of Procedure according to the interpretative practices that have been followed so far and this is the first time, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They're not interpretative practices, they're rules. Please, Senator Bubbico. PALMA (PdL). Mr President, the rules are those of the Rules of Procedure, according to previous interpretations of Senate practice, and this is the first time that we have come to the end of the sitting on the order of business and on the point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Bubbic Senator, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u13	Mr. President of the Senate, representatives of the government... [[Protests from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u14	Mr President, you deny me the floor on the order of business. This is unbelievable! CALIENDO (PdL). We cannot ask for the agenda to be reversed. This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u15	It has not been said that the intervention is about the reversal of the agenda. [[Protests from the PdL Group. Senator Volpi's comments.]] I invite you to maintain civil behavior and to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u18	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I would ask you to speak on the order of business for a very simple reason. At the request of Senator Mussolini for a point of order, you said that this type of speech should be taken at the end of the sitting. I have to tell the truth: since the Senate's work is governed and governed by the Rules of Procedure and by the interpretations that the individual rules of the Rules of Procedure have been given in the past, so as to constitute a precedent, I just wanted to remind you, President, or rather to point out to you, that in the two previous legislatures, in which I had the good fortune to carry out my mandate here in the Senate, something like this has never happened, because the speeches at the end of the sitting did not concern the order of business or the reference to the Rules of Procedure. This would lead to an innovation on practice which, objectively, would also create a number of problems. Consider, for example, the possibility of making a point of order in the context of a debate on a draft law, which has happened repeatedly during the proceedings of the Assembly during the two previous legislative sessions. Similarly, Mr President, think of the possibility of making statements on the order of business when draft legislation is being discussed, speeches on the order of business or points of order which obviously relate directly to the subject of the debate. If you ever had access to your innovative thesis, that is, that all these speeches should be carried out at the end of the sitting, once the discussion of the items on the agenda has been completed, I believe that there would be an unacceptable compression of the functions of the Member of Parliament, given the impossibility for individual Members of Parliament to provide their necessary contributions to the work of the Senate. I believe that, without this clearly taking nothing away from his perfect knowledge of the Rules of Procedure and of previous interpretations, the officials of the Senate can testify and give her an account of how correct my proposition is in relation to those that have been the interpretations of the past with respect to the rules of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u19	Senator Palma, just to define this issue once and for all, I would like to take up what was determined by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Conference of Leaders. The Presidency recalled the group leaders on what was decided unanimously by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on 22 December 2008, with reference to the speeches on items not on the agenda of the Assembly. I therefore reread the principles defined by the Junta, so that they are clear once and for all, since perhaps in this House, even if you are present, there are inattentivenesss: Senators who, at the opening of or during the sitting, intend to speak on matters not on the agenda must first inform the Presidency of the subject of their speeches. The object must be specified; a simple indication of "action on the order of business" is not sufficient. Senator Mussolini has rightly asked the Presidency to speak, following this rule we gave ourselves and announcing a speech on the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you have been granted the floor, but, according to the Junta's instructions, the Presidency assesses the actual relevance of the subject of the speech to the subjects before the House, giving the floor when it finds this relevance. When this is not established, it is the Presidency's task to determine when the intervention can take place - (as a rule at the end of the sitting: this is the rule we gave ourselves) - and to harmonise the duration of the intervention itself (in accordance with recent practice: not more than three minutes). This has happened, this has been done, this has been the Presidency's assessment. If there are different evaluations, I would ask the Group Leaders or members of the Board for the Rules of Procedure to make sure that we change the rules we gave ourselves. Of course, the Leaders always have the floor to highlight problems of particular importance that only the Holding Company can represent. These are the rules that we have given ourselves, and I think I have complied with them, without taking absolutely anything away from the parliamentary debate and without taking the floor to anyone. It seems to me that it is up to the President to procrastinate and regulate the work of this House, and we are trying to do so by giving ourselves rules. This has been done, nothing more. We can change the rules, but we must do so in the bodies that are Members of Parliament. [[Senator Palma's comments.]] I do not think we should continue to respond to this issue. If your Holding Company doesn't have any further needs, we can move on. I would ask you to continue your work in accordance with the agenda. PALMA (PdL). Therefore, Rule 92 (1) of the Rules of Procedure is skipped. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I told you that it will be your Parent Company's care to put this matter in the way and in the times that are due. PALMA (PdL). Therefore, Rule 92 (1) of the Rules of Procedure no longer exists.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u20	Let's continue with the examination of bill n. 298. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Bubbico, to do his report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u21	Mr President, representatives of the Government, the Commission has completed its work on the examination of the Decree-Law on urgent health provisions. I think it is worth pointing out that the work has been carried out in depth, with the constant participation of the Minister. During the course of the work it was possible not only to deepen the issues dealt with by the decree, but also to build the convergences that have been produced in a unanimous direction by the Commission on the amendments that have been examined and approved. As is well known, the decree-law in question consists of only two articles of great importance. The first is related to a series of obligations laid down by a law, approved during the past legislature, which has been reported as a conquest of great legal civilization, respect for the person and protection of the community. It was considered by that law to put an end to closed institutions also in relation to subjects subject to the prison regime, but suffering from particular pathologies, ordering the overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals. The overcoming of this institution requires, as the law provides, the establishment of structures and services able to guarantee the responsibility of these patients, not only to protect their psychophysical well-being, but also to protect the relevant interests of the communities. The time required by the law has actually expired. The regions, also due to financial difficulties, were unable to set up facilities and services to assist these people. It was not possible to develop those training courses of the employees, so much so as to put them in a position to face a new therapeutic-rehabilitative dimension for subjects who, although necessary of therapeutic treatments, have been subjected to mere prison regimen. On the basis, therefore, of the evaluations carried out in the specific cooperation group between the Ministry and the Regions, it has become necessary to arrange the translation of the time limits to be fulfilled. The decree also specifies certain aspects to determine the conditions for the National Health Service, in its regional areas, to ensure that it is taken care of to protect the health of those citizens and the general interests of the community. Article 2, as has already been mentioned, addresses the problem of treatment with respect to rare diseases and pathologies for which there is no therapeutic certainty. On Article 2, the Assembly has already expressed its opinion on the non-susistence of the requirements of necessity and urgency with regard to paragraph 1; the Commission has concentrated on a work aimed at making the provisions of the article workable in a framework of double certainty: continuity of therapeutic treatment for the citizens who were guaranteed access to those treatments and, at the same time, protection, through the establishment of a certain regulatory framework, to ensure the health of the citizens themselves who have already undergone that treatment. The subject of the management of an experimental phase in relation to diseases classified as rare diseases was then addressed; and in this sense a deepening has been produced that has led to the development of an amendment that guarantees access, in an experimental dimension and in compliance with specific rules, for those citizens need treatment for which there is no valid and certified therapeutic alternative. In essence, Mr President, the Commission, in dismissing the measure, gives the House a framework of amendments that can make access to those treatments viable and, at the same time, recalling principles of responsibility by the structures of the National Health Service, also in relation to the identification of reference centres for the treatment of these diseases, to centres identified because of previous care activities and previous scientific activity. The matter is extremely complex. A monitoring mechanism is envisaged and, through an agenda, which has been accepted by the Government, the need to organise a system of verification and monitoring is strengthened, in order to offer our fellow citizens who are suffering and who do not yet have the possibility to refer to therapeutic pathways certified by clinical evidence the possibility of cultivating a hope of solving dramatic problems, which mainly concern children at an early age. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u22	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to convert the emergency measure of 25 March 2013 with urgent health provisions into law. Before we go into the substance of the measure, I think we need a general reflection. How can the term "urgent provisions" be used in a decree if the provisions implementing a ministerial regulation are then handed down? Only this Government is aware of this; only this executive of the professors, although resigned, still thinks that he can continue to act without any respect for the most basic norms of constitutional principle. In this way, the extraordinary presuppositions of necessity and urgency, typical of a decree-law, fail. The Commission has, therefore, done well to express an unconstitutional opinion on the part of the measure which provided for referral back to a ministerial regulation, and this House has done well to approve, therefore, the deletion of the relevant provision. In this way, yet another blank delegation has been avoided. It is Parliament, and only Parliament, as a representative of the citizens' will, that can deal with such a sensitive matter as advanced stem cell therapies. In addition, we would like to underline how this decree deals with in the two articles two completely uneven subjects, which are united in a very original way by a generic title and not relevant to the provisions of the decree-law. Associating the subject of judicial psychiatric hospitals with that of experimental care reduces the requirement of regulatory homogeneity, a fundamental requirement for the use of emergency legislation, as repeatedly reiterated also by constitutional jurisprudence. Entering the merits of the measure, the first article postpones the deadlines for the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals and brings some additions to the process of completion. It is a postponement of due terms, also in the light of the requests made to the Government by the Regions. However, it should be remembered that this rule has been flawed since its entry into force, given that the subject of health organisation is the exclusive legislative competence of the regions. Moreover, the postponement of the deadlines for overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals is the result of a manifest inability to plan by this Government. In fact, the Commission itself, by its admission in the introductory report to the Decree-Law, writes: • in a context of delay in the implementation of acts of state competence •. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The deadline that we are going to postpone was introduced in December 2011, so already then it could be deduced that the times were not adequate. How could one think that in one year the new health structures that would have had to replace judicial psychiatric hospitals in total, without any definition of the requirements and without the allocation of resources, if we think that the structural, technological and organizational requirements were deliberated by a ministerial decree only on 1 October 2012 and even only on 28 December 2012, always with a ministerial decree, has been established the division of resources between the Regions and the autonomous Provinces? Therefore, in a month, this Government demanded that the Regions implement the new hospitals or nursing homes: from this it was simple to infer that the date of March 31, 2013 would never be respected. But the government thought well to care (so far by that date there would be a new Executive) and only because it is under the regime of extension was forced to take note of the fact that it was not able to make a careful planning of the process of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals. We now come to the substance of Article 2, which intervenes in order to regulate certain aspects related to the disciplines on advanced therapy medicinal products and those undergoing clinical trials. Far from us to address in the conversion into law of this decree-laws the technical-medical-scientific aspects that concern the question of compassionate care. We believe that such an issue should be dealt with in the right time and in the legitimate parliamentary fora. Therefore, if, on the one hand, urgent action is justified in order to regulate the aspects of the matter which, at the moment, would otherwise be entrusted solely to the discretionary interpretation of the magistrates, on the other hand, we believe that Parliament is called upon to examine in detail the regulatory aspects in order to prepare efficient legislative novelties that overcome the current regulatory vacuum. It is necessary - immediately - that Parliament begins to discuss how to amend the current legislation, including through the activation of hearings at the Commissions of merit, in order to regulate according to a fair criterion, on the one hand, based on the guarantee of an efficient and effective system of monitoring and evaluation of the new compassionate care and, on the other hand, capable of meeting the legitimate hopes of the patients and families involved. In this case, too, the Commission was right to intervene with its own amendment, preventing the decree from creating discrimination against new patients who are strongly demanding that they be able to adhere to compassionate care. If the Commission had not intervened, the fundamental right to health recognised by the Constitution would have been violated, creating, in fact, an unequal treatment of citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Puglia]] Is it possible that a citizen with severe illness is forced to turn to a judge to be guaranteed his sacred right to health? In addition to the misfortune of being sick, should the cost of a trial also be borne in order to have some hope of healing? We must reason, and therefore legislate, in compliance with a basic ethical principle, largely followed in health, according to which an initiated health treatment that has not caused serious side effects should not be interrupted and should not be prohibited to those who want to undertake it. In the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 218 of 1994 the right to health is understood not only as a right to physical integrity, but - more generally - as a state of psychophysical well-being. The reality now is that this decree-law offers a short-term solution. It is therefore necessary, as has already been said, to take serious and comprehensive legislative action, also in order to avoid, once again, intervening the magistrates, ordering or supporting care without having the competence in this matter, in place of Parliament and the doctors called upon to examine, in the relationship with patients, the methods and types of care to be adopted. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Finally, as a Lombardy, let me thank the hospital company Spedali Civili di Brescia for everything it is doing and for the hope it gives to the sick citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u24	He is registered to speak Senator Marino Ignazio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u25	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, it is with different sentiments that I am speaking this morning in this House. In the last parliamentary term, I had the responsibility to lead the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the effectiveness and efficiency of the national health service, which devoted three years of work to the horror - as Giorgio Napolitano called it - of our psychiatric judicial hospitals. I must say with a certain emotion that when I first entered one of these facilities, precisely in Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto, Sicily, in June 2010, I did not even remotely imagine what I would find in those rooms. In the so-called containment department I saw a man of my age naked, tied to an iron bed that looked like a medieval structure, no mattress, no sheets. It was tied to the four corners with gauze used as strings; in the middle of the bed there was a hole for the fall of feces and urine in a cockpit below. I don't want to see these things in my country anymore! [[Stretch applause.]] That man's been tied up for five days. That same afternoon we went to another of these hospitals, helped, in our transfers and in all our work by the military, the police and the police, whom I would like to thank. We arrived in Aversa and entering the first room I saw a bottle (that of water of a liter and a half that we all know and use) inserted into the circular hole of the turkish bath. I say this with shame, Mr President: I thought they were crazy. Then I went into the second room and saw the same thing; in the third and again in the next one the same scene was reappeared. Then I thought maybe there was something I didn't understand, and I asked the crazy, criminals, interned in those places. Well, no one until 2010 had ever bought a refrigerator to cool the water to drink in the summer. In those rooms there were almost 40 degrees: so the inmates put the bottle in the circular hole of the toilet because the latrine water cooled it, and then raised it to be able to drink it. In winter that same bottle protected them from the entrance of mice. We made a video and wanted to show it first to the Head of State. We continued our work of denouncing and, with the collaboration of Parliament and the Government, managed, in February 2012, to obtain a law that indicated a certain deadline for the closure of those places. Mr President, those places cannot exist because the dignity of the person must be respected, but it cannot even happen, as we have seen, that a boy (who is no longer such) has been locked in there since 1993 because he entered a bar in Catania and robbed 7,000 lire by putting his hand in his pocket, just as I am doing now. Who was with him, because he was judged capable of understanding and wanting, did not do a day in prison, while that boy was still there, in 2013, after twenty years. That's why I was talking about different feelings. I am pleased that our country is solving this problem, which is truly a disgrace to all of us. I am pleased that last year, despite the economic crisis and the difficulties that hit the country, 272 million euros were identified to put an end to a reality that has existed since 1925, when the first of these structures, precisely that of Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto, was inaugurated by Minister Rocco. Now, however, in this important Chamber, I ask all the institutions to make a commitment that today's is really the last extension. There can be no further extension because, while tonight we will go back to sleep in our beds, to take advantage of a shower and to have hot water in winter, those people will not be able to do so. I remember that the sheets are changed once a month and that, even if they are sick and are entitled to treatment, they are visited by a psychologist only when they enter those institutions and then no longer meet any specialist. It would be as if a person with cancer entered an oncology department where there are no oncologists. That sick person, however, can leave that department and go to another place: the people we are talking about are instead interned, deprived of freedom and cannot go to other places. I would really like in the coming months, very quickly, non-socially dangerous people - who are about half of them - to be transferred and welcomed to those places of care where each of us has the right to be welcomed and treated. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, LAG, SCpI and M5S groups]] and do not go back on the decision that we have strongly wanted for the delays that have been there, even if here I do not want to point the finger (because I am not here for this) against anyone. The act we are voting on today indicates that, if there are no solutions, in the coming months there will have to be a single Commissioner for the whole country that will definitively solve this horror, for which we have earned the Council of Europe the definition of torturers. It has to stop! [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and M5S groups and Senator Bianconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Minister, the work we have done in the Commission has been shared and has ensured that the principle of freedom can be declined with the principle of responsibility, which in turn can be translated into the two classic terms that refer to Greek and Latin etymology: on the one hand, to give an answer to those who challenge us in situations of grave discomfort, serious difficulties and serious pathologies; on the other hand, the answer must be declined in terms of a just conjugation in the field of law and scientific research. The difficulty in analyzing this issue is precisely to ensure that different areas can be combined in an interdisciplinary perspective: I am referring to the plan of science, the plan of clinics and ethics, the plan of law and, last but not least, the legislative plan. All this in order to avoid that the suffering of these children (and not only) become the land of no one, where anyone can intervene to anticipate what some have called therapeutic hopes and that I, on the other hand, would more correctly define hopes of treatment. All the work has been enrolled, therefore, in a perspective of relationship of care where the two subjects - the suffering subject and those who can offer a cure - can combine together a virtuous path. Of course, the work we have done has given rise to a balancing result - let me stress this - certainly and severely suffered, where everyone had to take a step back anyway. The theme, in fact, had the purpose of contemplating, in a situation of urgency, expectations that were addressed in the clinical field of particular gravity and that were to combine with ongoing treatments arranged by decision of some courts with, not least of course, the observance of good clinical practice. Health and equality are issues that are mainly confronted with the freedom of care in the Italian legal order, determining its lesser or greater breadth, and each of them, moreover, presents unpublished aspects - we will say - according to the profiles from time to time considered. If the therapeutic choice is a projection of the constitutional protection of personal freedom, law and science must necessarily interact, outlining the perimeters of a space destined to be filled with content, of the relationship - I would say more - of the medical-patient relationship. Judges of merit were faced with the request for inclusion of treatments: these demands based on freedom of care, evidently in the perspective of the patient. On these occasions it has been pointed out that the freedom of reception of treatment tends to coincide with the freedom of self-determination in the therapeutic field or that it also includes a guarantee of the effectiveness of the choice of therapeutic methods. In the first case the guarantee refers to freedom of choice, understood as a negative space in which the order refrains from interfering. In the second case, however, freedom of care assumes the meaning of full and comprehensive protection, in which the order does not only guarantee a choice but takes charge of supporting it, precisely according to a principle of responsibility. The relevance of the treatment to different treatment paradigms poses the need to identify certain criteria that allow it to be considered practicable, such as the absence of valid alternatives and, above all, the indispensability or non-replaceability of the treatment itself. The requirement for scientific validation in relation to the freedom of reception of the cure was clearly explained by the Praetor of Milan on 26 January 1998 in a pronunciation which reads as follows: Article 32 of the Constitution certainly places the right to health as the primary and absolute right of the individual to retain his or her physical and psychic dignity. This right, however, is in absolute form only in negative, that is, as a right not to tolerate any behaviour of others that harms one's own health; in positive, however, when it translates into a claim to the public authority, this right is not and cannot be absolute. The right to health, for those suffering from illness, is only the right for public health to provide them with appropriate health care, if necessary also free of charge. The treatments in question may only be approved and registered as such by a valid medical and scientific body, national or at least international. It is not possible to ignore recognition in the competent technical framework: there would be no criterion for distinguishing medical treatment from any practice, useful, harmless or harmful, which is not only alternative but - it says in an exemplifying way - 'even more strange that, by objecting to a completely subjective interpretation of health treatment ', should be administered, however, at the request of the National Health Service. While it is true that a patient cannot be prevented without any other hope of taking what he wants, a subjective right cannot be invoked for public health to take an active part in the administration of substances and, in general, therapies whose effect is still not scientifically recognized in any technical forum. However, the Constitutional Court, by judgment No 185 of 1998, reads as follows: Only for such medicinal products, which are the subject of clinical trials and a special temporary authorisation for therapeutic use, outside the trial, provided by ad hoc legislation, shall the conditions which distinguish this from all other cases of therapeutic hope placed in any therapy which is supposed to be effective are met. From this point of view, therefore - here is the difficulty of arriving at a shared conclusion, but to which we have come - science helps to provide the parameter of reasonableness of the choices of the legislator also in relation to the respect of the principle of equality which implies, in the same perspective, the mediation of the technical factor in the immediate preceptivity of the social right to health, but obviously must prevail - as I said in the introduction of my intervention - that principle of responsibility which, combined with the principle of non-malificity and of benefitality, can only respond to the right conjugation where the scientific dimension combines with the ethical dimension: the scientific dimension and the ethical dimension place themselves at the service of the medical-patient relationship. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u28	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Minister, in the process of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 24 of 25 March 2013, paragraph 1 of Article 2 did not recognise the criteria of necessity and urgency on the basis of the opinion expressed by the Special Commission. Today, however, the treatment for patients who have already started treatment is still under review. On the one hand, the possibility of continuing therapy to those who have already started it remains standing; on the other hand, more stringent criteria are provided for continuing stem cell treatments. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 to the examination today, therefore, was born to give a response to patients undergoing the treatment based on mesenchymal stem cells and to cope, as highlighted in the explanatory report, with some emergencies determined in the field of production and use of medicinal products for advanced therapies. (at 10:27 a.m.) (Follow Padua). It provides for a transitional rule allowing public structures, in which treatment on individual patients with advanced therapy medicinal products based on mesenchymal stem cells has already begun before the date of entry into force of this decree, to complete under the responsibility of the prescriber of the treatments, provided that they are medicinal products prepared in laboratories of public structures and in accordance with procedures suitable for the processing and storage of cells and tissues, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 191 of 6 November 2007, or made such within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree. The Decree-Law provides that treatment is also to be carried out in relation to treatments which have been carried out in public facilities by the patient or donor of cells intended for therapeutic use and treatments which have already been ordered by the judicial authority. A court case with various outcomes has developed on the case and, in most cases, orders have been issued that determine the continuation (or initiation) of the therapy. With regard to those orders which, on the other hand, have made it possible for the medicinal products concerned to be used in an authorised facility, the report notes that not all the conditions for their implementation have so far been laid down. Therefore, in this context, it is difficult and causes an inner laceration to have to take a stand when it comes to health and even, in many cases, the survival of people in the face of therapies that seem to offer relief to the sick and their families. The dramatic nature of these situations, which came to the fore with the cases of the past few days and supported by the news that thousands of subjects would have required access to the therapeutic protocol used, only increases the sense of responsibility that as legislators, and I personally as a doctor, we feel. The protection of health, precisely because in serious cases affixes to the same survival, cannot be without the proven scientificity of the therapies adopted and, in the case in question, from the punctual knowledge of the components of the mesenchymal stem cell drugs administered to patients with neurodegenerative pathologies. The fact that we have correctly removed the standardisation of the subject from the urgent decree makes it all the more necessary that Parliament should legislate on this subject, with the possibility of the necessary in-depth discussions and comparisons with the scientific community. It is necessary to come to the elaboration of a law that allows not to mortify, not to disappoint the hopes and expectations of those who are in a position to live or to assist loved ones suffering from diseases that today do not have an effective treatment suitable and even less a prospect of healing and at the same time to subtract from any subjects without scruples or without the necessary scientific protocols required to manipulate and Lucrare for economic purposes on desperation and disease. Scientific research, in particular medical research, sometimes, almost always proceeds on non-linear, untracked and often unconventional roads. In this experiment, however, it is necessary not to lose sight of the object of the research: man, in his entirety and in his integrity, which means the need not to submit him to trials that could be more serious and more dangerous than the disease they presume to cure, in the absence of specific evidence and knowledge about the components used in the treatments. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Taverna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u30	Senator Cardiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I address all my colleagues, regardless of their political color. A few weeks ago each of us received from families with sick children - also very seriously ill - dozens and dozens of e-mails from which it was noted that they needed to be helped, and helped by that part of politics that is often called anti-political. Well, I, together with some colleagues from other parties, attended the demonstration held by these families a few weeks ago in Rome. We have collected their requests: instances that come from the bottom of the heart, because they concern sick children, who do not move in their beds. I am a lawyer and not a doctor and, therefore, technically, I cannot address Minister Balduzzi as a doctor or a technician of experimental treatment. I remember, however, that a few years ago, at the beginning of my profession, Di Bella's care came out, which Minister Balduzzi will remember. At the time I was already a Member of Parliament and on that occasion, because of politics, we had to address the magistrates in order to have the authorization to treat Di Bella (I was one of the first). Well, that treatment worked - no matter what the pharmaceutical companies say, the international drug lobby - and it also worked well. On that occasion, politics played its part. Today, after years, Di Bella's cure has been resurrected. Minister, I attended the event a few weeks ago and tomorrow morning, together with many other colleagues, I will take part in another event that will take place in the Pantheon square: families will come with campers from all over Italy and take sick children to the square. Politics cannot escape this duty. I'm a parent, but luckily, I have two kids who are fine. I address you, Mr Minister, as a lawyer, reminding colleagues who in the Commission voted against compassionate care on the terms of the Constitution, starting with Article 2, which reads: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. In short, this article contains, also with reference to the so-called Stamina cure, the guaranteed and inviolable rights of the patient, such as the right not to suffer and the right to obtain all the treatments provided in our State. The constitutional provision under consideration, then, must be understood as intended to remove all obstacles which, in a more or less unlawful way, do not allow the citizen to protect the constitutionally envisaged law. If the Constitution so provides, you, Minister, must explain to me why patients who have been treated with the Stamina method, who have so far had positive effects on the children who have been subjected to it, must be considered as B-series. I then appeal to Article 3 of the Constitution, which reads: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, regardless of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." I repeat that I am not a doctor, but a lawyer who tries to interpret the thoughts of doctors who, however, are often upset by the affairs of pharmaceutical lobbyists. In the text of the measure, in reference to treatment with the Stamina method, it is stated that compassionate care has given positive results. In view of the fact that Article 3 of the Constitution states that we are all equal before the law, if the patient intends to be treated with the Stamina method, which gives positive results and no side effects, you must explain to me why you must deny by decree a right enshrined in the Constitution, in particular in Article 3. Do I have the right to treat myself as I want or do I have to be subordinate to some lobby? Moreover, the Stamina cure does not produce side effects and is lawful In the e-mails I received were also pictures of sick children. The children I am about to mention, thanks to compassionate care and the treatment of Stamina, have had positive effects. You can also check on the Internet: the names of the children are Daniele, Celeste, Desirée, to which I hope to add Cristian, a child for which in these days I have had to file an appeal to the magistrate to be authorized to be treated with compassionate care. In your opinion, is it right that this right should not naturally fall from the Constitution and that it should instead be a magistrate who authorizes one person to be treated by one method or another? I shall conclude by recalling Article 32 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. Well, this is a free cure. So, in this case, citizens are entitled to get all the treatments that can even alleviate the disease, even when it comes to experimental care or not yet tested for that type of disease or compassionate. I am obliged to recall that Article 32 of the Constitution enjoys preceptive and not simply programmatic pregnance, so much so that it becomes a provision which gives the subject an absolute right of personality. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in reaffirming my personal commitment to these families and to these children, I urge you to leave the Group's current thoughts aside for a moment: this is a measure on which, in my opinion, the Groups must leave freedom of conscience. Each of us must decide according to our own conscience. It is not possible, it is not conceivable, in the Senate Chamber to vote because the Group is voting in a certain way: we must rebel, our conscience must be free from today, and we must vote as each of us feels to do. Tomorrow morning, at 10 a.m., we will meet these families with their children and each of you will have to explain that they have been denied a hope, that they have been denied a right enshrined in the Constitution. My appeal to my fellow Members is therefore to vote according to conscience. In these classrooms I have had several parliamentary experiences and sometimes I too have rebelled against what was the Group's commitment and voted according to conscience. This is my appeal. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u32	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mr Senators, it is with regret that, albeit briefly, I am speaking this morning about judicial psychiatric hospitals, because when, at the beginning of 2012, as my colleague Senator Marino mentioned earlier, we had spoken in the Justice Committee and then in the Senate Chamber proposing an amendment for the definitive overcoming of judicial psychiatric hospitals, we trusted that the issue would soon arrive in port. Among other things, what was presented, Senator Marino's first signatory, in the Committee on Justice, had been a laboriously tabled amendment, which had struggled to overcome the threshold of the Commission and then of the House, and it took the intervention of the ministers responsible for this matter, of the President of the Council of Ministers and beyond, to ensure that this shameful, inhuman, and indeed subhuman, situation could find a way out. I must also add that when we spoke on this subject in 2012, we entered a path, in a process that had already begun for a few years, since 2008, so we really thought of intervening with a new stage to overcome the situation. That amendment was precisely about the final abolition of judicial psychiatric hospitals, but today it must be said that the goal does not yet seem very close. Certainly the attention and commitment that have been given in the past legislature by the Commission chaired by Senator Marino and then by the senators who have intervened with a view to resolving the dramatic situation, which concerns about 1,400-1,500 of our fellow citizens who have been forgotten and sometimes, as they say, condemned to a white life sentence, leave hope open, even if in reality, as I said, the rules that establish the overcoming have already existed for a few years, but have not yet been applied. Now, the new law of 2012 and the amendment that we will approve, I trust, this morning set a new deadline and new ways for this to happen. Interventions are planned for each Region for the creation of new psychiatric residential structures in which to transfer the internees; however, it is essential that it is remembered what it is to avoid opening in place of the current psychiatric hospitals new psychiatric hospitals. There is concern that the residential structures planned or the agglomerations of these on the same site may reproduce situations similar to the old psychiatric hospitals, while the so-called asylums have been abolished precisely because they are intended to reproduce, by their nature, discomfort, suffering and social deviance and because they were and are a wrong response in terms of care. It is certainly essential to guarantee immediately decent places in order to respect the dignity of the people who are now interned in unworthy places; however, it is necessary to do so - it is possible, we trust that it is possible - without reopening the handles, small or large. The real goal for every internship is to have a personalized and external path of assistance, aimed at reintegration and support in areas, not only residential, alternative to the judicial psychiatric hospital, and certainly not in structures similar to the same for logic and organization. It is precisely for this reason that we must avoid any peanas. While we fully agree with the rapporteur, Mr Bubbico, when he speaks of a moment of great legal civilization, let us remember that we intervene in a segment of the field of justice and the prison sector that is experiencing a situation of real emergency that must be overcome, really and to the very end intervening on the complex of the criminal system, on the complex of the criminal procedural system and on the system of punishment. If there is not an overcoming of the logic of the code Rocco - we know what origin it has - we will not be able to solve humanly unacceptable situations, such as those that have been reported to us in such a detailed and passionate way by my colleague Ignazio Marino. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups and Senator Uras]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u34	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the decree we are debating and on which we are speaking has shown all its fragility and contradiction, precisely because of the delicacy of the subject. Essentially, what emerges is that there is a need for control of new trials, which must also be monitored in order to verify the benefits, albeit minimal. This cannot take away the hope of those and the families of those with existing cares who have no life expectancy. So it is right and proper to give access to so-called compassionate care. Beyond the Stamina case, I believe that stem cell research that represents the future of medical science should be promoted as much as possible: this is an objective fact. Research must not encounter ideological barriers, which unfortunately too often go beyond ethical issues: it is the case, in my opinion, of the thousands of frozen embryos which, with Law No 40 of 2004, are destined to end up in thin air. Research - as I said - must not meet these ideological barriers. It is a law, Law No. 40, which, in the name of respect for life in all its forms, prohibits the implantation of embryos over a certain number and devotes those made redundant to infinite freezing and therefore unfortunately - let me tell you, even if it is ugly - to the garbage can. It is my personal opinion, but it is rather difficult for me to compare a newly fecundated cell with the life of a child, but this judgment and my opinion sees the world of science, public opinion and this same Assembly divided into two, with different positions, all respectable, precisely because it is a theme that touches the deeper consciousness of each of us. Beyond what you think, I think it is objectively absurd to devote these embryos to infinite freezing, so to ageing and dying, and not to make them available to research to find cures for so many people, so many lives and so many children in the flesh. I conclude, Madam President, with the hope that, as soon as possible, a serious and open debate will be opened in this House on new experiments and stem cell research, which will give us as much space as possible to find answers to the hopes of so many families, and not only of all of us and our children. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u36	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u37	Dear President, Senators and Senators, today we are examining a decree of the Government with two articles of a totally different nature, signals both of a delay of politics and society all towards both civil rights and bioethics. Article 1 de facto postpones the completion of the process of overcoming judicial psychiatric hospitals by a further one year. We consider this extension, even if it is now necessary, a serious act, because in this year we have not done all that was necessary and necessary to comply with the deadline for the closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals. It is a responsibility, this, well shared between Government, Regions and penitentiary administration. Yet we had hoped that technicalism, freed from the constraints of politics, could conclude this bad chapter of our history started with the code Rocco in the fascist era. The President of the Republic has called psychiatric judicial hospitals an inconceivable institution for a civil country. Yet, in Italy people with total infirmity of mind, considered dangerous to society, who have committed a crime, can stay in a psychiatric judicial hospital until an indeterminate time, because the law provides for a minimum time but not a maximum time. Therefore, a person can remain excluded well beyond the time of punishment, until the social danger ends. But social danger often refers more to the relationship between the individual and the environment than to the crime committed. And it is a real paradox because the measure of danger can be extended several times: it is no coincidence that we talk about white life. For years the inhuman and degrading conditions of judicial psychiatric hospitals have been known only to those involved, but in 2011 the inspection visits of the Commission chaired by Senator Ignazio Marino showed that in reality judicial psychiatric hospitals are terrible residues of that logic typical of the manichomas that provided special treatment for the crazy perpetrators of crime. The data, the stories, the videos, the same testimony as Senator Ignazio Marino this morning is a cruel denunciation of how incivilization is still capable of our country. These two years, then, are the real waste of time. It is not acceptable that in a conflict between state, penitentiary and regional administrations the consequences are the people who are still interned. Not to mention the resources used to keep structures still open that need deep structural maintenance and where respect for human dignity does not exist. We ask that this year of postponement should not pass unnecessarily, but that we ask the Government for specific commitments to close down and move to the Departments of Mental Health. This time the time constraints will have to be peremptori starting next 15 May, deadline within which the Regions will have to present the programs for the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals and indication of the stages of the passage, penalty the commissioning. The decree does not provide, in case of delays, no economic penalty in terms of the health fund that will be transferred to the Regions, just as it happened for the closure of psychiatric hospitals, which were definitively closed in Italy only when the 1996 budget introduced a penalty of 2.5% of the resources to be transferred to the Regions. We wouldn't want to be forced to repeat the story in a year. It is necessary, therefore, during this year to extend to concrete facts, to a concrete passage, to the Departments of mental health of the ASLs of the regions that already have the programmes in itinere, of the internees, starting from those who no longer have the social danger, who may finally have the right to individualized therapeutic programs in order to assure them the right to care and social reintegration. We do not hide our concern about the new structures that should welcome people who continue to be socially dangerous, because we would not want to meet again in a few years' time in front of small psychiatric judicial hospitals managed, this time, directly by the health system in agreement with the State to ensure its safety. Last Saturday, we MPs of Left Ecology and Freedom visited many prisons and psychiatric judicial hospitals in Italy. In Florence we had the opportunity to visit the house of custody and care of the female section of the prison of Sollicciano. We found a small judicial psychiatric hospital inside a prison. Sleeping women, asleep from medications that nothing and no one will ever help to recover to reinsert. That is what we must not do; we will follow these steps carefully, but we are well aware that it will be necessary to amend the penal code as soon as possible and those rules that are at the foundation of psychiatric judicial hospitals and future health facilities, as Senator Casson recalled earlier. I would like to thank the Special Commission for the work it has done these days, in particular on Article 2 of the Decree, allowing its substantial rewriting, introducing rules on cellular experimental therapies to restore a healthy relationship between researchers, doctors, patients and legislators. On the cases of sick children, these days everything has been said and it has not been a good show: judges against AIFA and Ministry of Health, the Public Prosecutor of Turin against Stamina, then television broadcasts, and still crowds for collections of signatures, petitions online, our personal e-mails and Senate clogged by hundreds of messages, famous people who have mobilized. In short, around this story there has been a real confrontation between the right to health and the right to care, a confrontation that I believe is not good for either the institutions or the sick. The decree that the Government had presented to us simply allowed all patients who had begun treatment to be able to complete the protocols regardless of how the cells had been prepared: out of all rules, in unauthorized laboratories, without the protocol being submitted to the approval of the Higher Institute of Health and of the AIFA. It didn't make any sense. Nor would it have sufficed to say that, in order to be authorised therapies, the guarantee was to carry out treatment in public facilities. It was therefore necessary to go further and find again the third role of the legislator who has a duty to restore a relationship between research and scientific evidence and the freedom of every citizen to choose how to treat himself. In fact, it is not possible to demand lucidity of choice in patients who are ill and desperate and less than ever in children's parents. Each of us in the same situation would behave in the same way, because when you are desperate you try everything. And this is where the role of doctors and the role of ethics takes over. When we turn to a doctor each of us demands the appropriateness of the cure and certainty of healing, which then can become hope and finally also illusion of healing. Human nature is made up of reason and emotion: the rationality of patients and their family members, however, runs the risk of being reduced in proportion to the severity of the disease, and when one is in despair one is looking everywhere for hold and hope. And it is in these moments that medicine must face irrationality. In fact, the more difficult situations are, the easier it is to find a doctor who feels obliged to treat every disease in all patients, regardless of the limits of the available scientific evidence and underestimating that, despite the great advances of science, often remain large grey areas that cannot be filled with individual experiments, scientifically unusable and ethically unacceptable, especially if conducted on patients in despair available to try any therapy. Doctors should inform the patient that, despite the exceptional advances of science, these grey areas still exist. Even compassionate care, practiced for incurable and rare diseases, must move within the framework of scientific recognition. The State must use science, ethics and generosity in relation to its citizens and must be able to guarantee a balance between them. This story explodes a harsh truth: it broke that therapeutic alliance, as some doctors defined it, between medicine and patients. We will have to ask ourselves all about this: the medical community, the scientific community, the institutions and politics. In fact, it will be necessary to rediscover the human dimension of medicine, far from any ugly speculation of politics, and try to find a new way for a new principle of freedom. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u38	I note that the Presidency has received some further requests for intervention from Senators D'Anna, Fucksia and Panizza. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure, membership of the Presidency must reach the Presidency within 24 hours before the start of the debate, so that we can organize our work rationally. However, exceptionally, given both the sensitivity of the matter and the fact that we are still at a break-in stage for many newly elected colleagues and for newly formed groups, the senators whom I have mentioned and who have asked to speak will be given five minutes each. He is therefore registered to speak Senator D'Anna. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the issue of the use of stem cells, which we are dealing with here, from the point of view of the moral question and of the sensitivity towards children who unfortunately have at their disposal non-existent care (which is therefore palliative or charitable care), is asking this House a moral question of much greater importance. The question is whether man is free to treat himself by using substances, obviously not harmful, that he believes he can use or must necessarily subjugate to the imposition of the State. This is a dispute that liberal thinkers have repeatedly raised, concerning the pervasiveness of legislation in inalienable and unconditional rights, what Isaiah Berlin called negative freedoms, namely those freedoms linked to man, which are not liable to be imposed or conculcated by laws and regulations. The problem in my opinion is not, therefore, whether or not to allow these palliative treatments, but to assess whether, under certain circumstances, the State can impose on those who believe that they benefit from the use of substances - I repeat - not damaging its ban and its denial. As regards, in particular, the issue of stem cell treatment, I should like to remind the Senators that Minister Fazio presented Act No 4274 to the House in the last parliamentary term. The House, with a very large majority, almost unanimously, had to approve the text proposed by Minister Fazio on 28 September 2011. This text referred, precisely, to the delegation to the Government in the matter of clinical trials. Therefore, the House of Deputies and the Minister had already raised the problem of a timely reordering of clinical trial procedures, precisely to prevent there being shadow cones, of nobody's lands, which we were unable to determine because of the improvisation of the procedures to which drugs or other curative substances are often subjected. Obviously, this text has been in the Senate for two years and has not been approved, nor has it been discussed by this House. I believe that an active and proactive contribution can be given to the Minister in proposing this decree as a matter of urgency and in ensuring that there are neither improvisations nor original paths in the field of clinical trials, which some people often intend to adopt, but there are very strict lines and protocols, approved by the scientific community, that can ascertain the actual value and the actual usefulness of the cure. As far as stem treatments are concerned, I shall vote on the basis of conscience and vote no. I shall vote no because, as a biologist, I am well aware of the positive value of stem cells, but also the tremendous negative value, being these of the totipotent cells that can, not only not to alleviate the suffering of children undergoing treatment, but also to generate - as in many cases has happened - cancers, neoplastic diseases that would shorten their lives and complicate their existence. Thank you, Madam President, for derogating from the Rules of Procedure and I shall return, when I have time, to a more detailed discussion of the subject. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u40	Senator Bianconi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u41	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Article 1, I would ask that the words of Senator Ignazio Marino can be fully exchanged. Like him, I myself have been a member of the Commission of Inquiry into the National Health Service and together we have experienced the devastation, horror and shame of the images and stories of those people. Like him, I hope that this disaster will not be repeated, but that - above all - it will be brought to an end and there will be no delay in doing so. Madam President, I would also like to take this opportunity to ask you to take an active part in preparing as soon as possible the draft law on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Health Service, which is a particular and extremely important Commission: we have always considered it a serious and thorough armed arm on all national health issues for the benefit of the Ministry of Health, but also for the work of this House. I would like to say a few more words about Article 2 of the measure, first of all by thanking the special Commission for its fruitful work. On such a delicate subject it has managed to find an important square, a clear sign that the Senate of the Republic, whenever it wants, exploits the best intelligences and skills to find important solutions to those that are the hot themes and the new frontiers, which are what we are discussing today. What is the frame in which you moved? On the one hand, personal freedom and, on the other, ethical profiles, collective responsibility (that is, that of all of us), but also our Constitution and our National Health Service. This is the great frame within which we move and move in the coming months. What is the founding theme? Advanced therapies. It is certainly a new frontier, all that still needs to be described and detailed. It is obvious that the care we are talking about today, if you pass me the term, is illegal: in fact, if they had been legitimate, we would not have needed to legislate in this respect. It is obvious that we absolutely needed to demand, very much to demand serious experimentation. Based on what? On scientific and clinical evidence, guarantee of effectiveness and efficiency, but also guarantee for all the actors involved: from patients to family members, from the competent health structure to the structures of the State and the State itself. It is in fact the state that is asked to regulate on the new borders (i.e. to put itself in this line of the new frontiers), but also to monitor closely, because the social cost, as well as the human cost, is very high. The articulation has been dealt with - if you can say so - on two issues. The first part, the part concerning those who already have this cure, has been more detailed, especially with regard to the objective request for guarantees by the laboratory for Community and national standards. And the Commission has done well to demand that, within 60 days, the institution should establish such clarity, which has also been a source of different interpretations. On the other side there is the whole front of experimentation. In this regard, there are laws (i.e. the border of Legislative Decree No. 191 of 2007), but also the institutes set up (AIFA, Higher Institute of Health, National Center for Transplants, State-Regions Conference) to conscientiously activate an experiment that puts an end, on the one hand, to illations, on the other to false hopes. In this way the State puts everyone in the best position to deal calmly and conscientiously with what is certainly one of the most delicate themes, while realizing that we also come back to this beehive of popular pathos. It is, however, the task of the legislator to be able to abstract himself from this pathos by setting clear points of reference in order to be able to legislate with competence. Allow me, Madam President (I am also addressing the Minister and all of us), to point out that next year, from June 2014, Italy will have a great responsibility: to lead the European Semester. That is, we will have the right to drive Europe for six months. And then I ask whether issues as important as stem cell issues or the problem of GLP and GMP standards are absolutely not relevant to us even in the logic of a new cross-border medicine. This is in order to deal with these new therapies and the problems of medicines together with the whole European community, knowing that this is a mine ground, where every Parliament demands its autonomy. But I wonder if the time is not ripe to tackle these new frontiers together. And I also wonder why the Italian Government should not do so when it has this responsibility. And since we know that we must prepare ourselves in time to deal with such important issues, but also to deal with the European Presidency, I would ask the current Minister, you, Madam President, but also for each of us to start thinking of including the new frontiers of medicine in one of the great chapters of analysis, study and perspective of this Italian semester. [[Applause from the LAG, PDL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u42	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put four issues quickly to the attention of the Minister and of course of the House, and in the end, although it should be discussed at the beginning, a preamble which probably includes these four indications. As far as the first issue is concerned, we will have to pay attention, as many other speakers have already pointed out, to the tragedy of families. The Ministry makes available - we have already pointed out several times - experts of a varied nature in support of those families that have patients who are in a particular dramatic state. With regard to the second question, it is possible to import cells from abroad by simple acts. I find it important to establish a relationship with tissue banks which are and are already active, Minister, in the Italian regions. 11.15 a.m. (NENCINI followed). As regards the third question (probably the most sensitive and the one on which the Commission has been working longer over the last few hours), the measure provides that patients who have started this type of treatment can complete them even if the reference laboratory has not been authorised. It is also said that there is no data on the scientific validity of the method we are discussing. I wonder - and I repeat this question, which has already resonated in this House more than once this morning, and in the Commission yesterday - why patients treated in a research protocol that allows the widest possible scientific comparison and thus allows all patients a certified treatment. It would have been useful simply to transform the cases in question, for which a situation has been created that we know, into a cluster of clinical cases through which to conduct a kind of pilot project with the consent, which seemed to us there, of the family members. Moreover, we are in a context of rare diseases - as you know, Minister - and it is necessary, indeed it is essential to rely on reports. The use of the institution of compassionate care is sustainable. It is true that for the Stamina Foundation it does not bring indications of effectiveness, but it is equally true that in other circumstances, daily in Italian health, hospitals resort to compassionate care to try to solve in safety clinical problems that do not present specific therapeutic solutions. It must then be Parliament, with the aim of rebuilding the gap between health, scholars and organs of the State, to enter into the substance of the procedures for advanced therapies. It has already been said that very often Parliament and the institutional bodies survive under conditions which the judiciary, or other institutions, have already treated in their own way. We often intervene when the oxen have already escaped. The presuppositions of this morning's debate, in some situations, would lead us instead to prevent conditions that could now be at our door. My view is that it would be important for Parliament to address the problem to the AIFA and the Higher Institute of Health (ISS), which, through the operational arm of the National Transplant Centre, could conduct a clear technical support operation. All this would also encourage a rapid analysis of the needs that a central commission, although made up of very authoritative experts, would probably not be able to express. The last issue concerns stem cell production. It was established that stem cells were produced in a structure that followed GMP standards. Now we are also considering an alternative choice, different, which means non-GMP choices. This is an unauthorized practice so far of which there is no trace in international literature; an unpublished practice and therefore not known to date. I think it also serves this clarity: clarity to accompany the production laboratory to the cooperative management of scientific tutors and the CNT that certifies its safety and declares its clinical risk management processes. The last question is, rather than a question, an indispensable preamble to the debate that we are likely to conclude today. Scientific growth, Mr President, Minister, is the most powerful constant in the history of the species. We have just entered the framework of the third revolution, a technical-scientific revolution that follows the agricultural revolution and the industrial revolution. To face each other remain, in the history of humanity, the two great unfinished questions: the incomplete heaviness of the body and the complete lightness of the mind. It is the ancient paradigm put in black on white by Greek philosophers: the spirit that opposes the envelope that contains it, the freedom of our ego against the chains of matter. On the idea of a nature taken away from change, an absolute and insurmountable bond, the Church has refined part of her doctrine. Abandoned physics and abandoned cosmology, today the border to defend for theology is biology, nothing else or especially biology. The clash is on the control of two key points: how you are born and how you can die. The only subject that has absolute priority in the face of these two questions is, in my opinion, science. Our Constitutional Charter promotes and protects the freedom of science. This debate, Mr President, Minister, takes place on the threshold of this border, if I read and reflect on the writings and opinions that have accompanied him out of the Chamber before even inside the Chamber. We do not want to prevent, rather we will favour those family members who want to care for their children at all costs and in any way. However, we must demand competent structures and methods, correct scientific information, verification of studies and, above all, we call for the guarantee of the freedom of science. But for science to be free, research needs to be funded, otherwise science cannot be free without research funding. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI, PD and M5S. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u44	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u45	Mr President, unfortunately, the debate on these sensitive issues, so particular, has been penalized by the fact that we have not had the opportunity to discuss ourselves in the most appropriate and appropriate forum, that of the Health Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Some aspects, in fact, would have deserved much more space and more confrontation. However, we found ourselves very well in the debate because the debate was fruitful and there were some convergences on several points. With regard to prison hospitals, I invite you to quantify the problem involving less than 1,000 people, less than 1,000 inmates, including only 81 women, all of whom are included in the operational structure of Castiglione delle Stiviere. Less than 1,000 people correspond practically to the people who sit in Parliament, including the Senate and the House; therefore, considering the Italian population and even the Italian patients, a relatively ridiculous amount. I wanted to point out that these people do not need particular building structures, they do not care with cement throws but with skills. Therefore, it could be adapted, also at the level of each Region (in some Regions the people among other things are very few), some spaces of hospitals that are often closed. Therefore, with regard to construction structures, with a restructuring that involves a very low amount of expenditure, we could save in this sector, protecting also the territory and making a policy more suitable and more appropriate than the times and investing much more in skills. We must in fact verify that the clinical path of these people leads to a real improvement and therefore to the effectiveness of the therapeutic cure. We also consider in particular that some of these people have already completed their detention period, so they are for all intents and purposes ordinary citizens, so they must follow the same protocols and the same paths as ordinary citizens. On the other hand, I do not think that the speech of the Stamina and stem cells treatment should be left to freedom of conscience (the freedom of individual consciousness on ethical issues that involve us). We need to have certain tools to know at least what is effective and what is not. These are new therapies, so certain certain things we cannot have because we do not have enough data and enough time to give certainty in one sense or another. For example, I do not know how much AIFA can add to the results that can also be achieved indirectly. I remember that most scientific discoveries, since man is not a machine but there are many variables even unpredictable, are unfortunately often due to chance; we have to realize this. Our ethical duty is to use all the knowledge at our disposal and to ensure certain protocols. In the case of such rare diseases it is good to merge research into a single structure, so as to follow a single protocol and thus make it easier to monitor the effectiveness of the therapies, eliminating the referees of free interpretations at a decentralised level and thus giving certainties of this meaning. Where we do not have certainties and have no life expectancy, there is no risk of cancer or anything else; we know very well that the tumor does not fall into an immediate cause-effect relationship, but has periods of latency. On a person who has a minimum life expectancy the risk of incurring cancer practically does not exist. So we don't have to say things that aren't right. Furthermore, we must give all expectations and achieve conditions of transparency and certainty. We must set up a committee which is also characterised by the total absence of conflict of interest, from which often some consultants - I understand - have not been so exempt. Therefore, the committee must be neutral, all parties must participate in it, so that any conflicts of interest cancel each other out, and we must have a certain protocol and clinical procedure, knowing what diseases can be part of these experimental treatments, such as the conditions that allow us to intervene or not on these patients, leaving in fact all the freedom, and also realizing that European legislation is often redundant and useless. That's how it was... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u46	The time at your disposal, Senator Fucksia, is exhausted, however you can conclude the sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u47	FUCKSIA (M5S). ...they engraved because they had an interest in this redundancy at the expense of others. But safety is not done on certifications and blue stamps but on certain data. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u48	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard from the complex and complex debate on these issues, the subject under discussion is very sensitive and has very complex verses. The decree-law in question really unites, in a way that is not even acceptable and presents critical aspects also with respect to constitutional provisions, two issues of absolute diversity and whose examination involves assessments and considerations of completely different nature and content. As regards the first point, it is a matter of discipline on the completion of the process of overcoming judicial psychiatric hospitals. While considering this intervention indispensable, also in the light of the requests - I remember - that have been sent to the Government directly from the Regions, it is important to emphasize that in this case too we are faced with the confirmation that the modalities pursued by the Government Monti in the continuous use of the legislation of urgency and the recourse to confidence have proved completely bankrupt. In fact, we consider it absurd - and I say this in two words - that the regions, which have exclusive competence in the organization of health care, have not even been directly, effectively and immediately involved in providing for the overcoming of psychiatric hospitals. Let's move on to the point where it hurts. Article 2 deals with a subject which is the subject of this particular and very heartfelt debate, including the media, where action is taken to deal with certain emergencies which have arisen in the production and use of advanced therapy medicinal products. In particular, the examination of this second part of the measure is part of a discussion that affects not only patients, but all of us citizens, in that it addresses a very delicate issue, which arouses in our personal sensitivity an apprehension for human events where suffering and pain affect the lives of people, children and their families. These events, which have taken on such an important social and political dimension and not least judicial, must be addressed without further delay. Far from wanting to refer to this forum the scientific evaluation of the therapies concerned or the aspects related to the protocols relating to these treatments, legislative choices cannot obliterate and deny the legitimate and unbearable right of people, children and parents to hope. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Puglia.]] The value of life and the desire for a future push more than any bureaucratic procedure. The remedy of the decree of urgency, used and abused as usual by the current resigning Government, cannot and must not be the seat for the definition of a path, among other things not simple, like that of which we are discussing today, which instead would require a thorough and thought-out discussion in the legitimate parliamentary seat. In fact, with a part of the decree-law - in particular paragraph 1 of Article 2 - the Government had still forced the hand invoking constitutional presuppositions of necessity and urgency which instead conflict with the recourse to a discipline of secondary rank, leaving to a regulation of the Minister of Health the definition of the matter. This led to the extension of a process which, on the other hand, must give an immediate response to the needs and demands of this population afflicted by these distressing human events. It is clear that the Government, also in this circumstance, has proved incapable of finding suitable solutions and of useful application to the problem in question, limiting itself instead through the use of the decree-law to freeze a situation de quo. Therefore, the Assembly has already correctly taken on board the assessment made by the Special Commission on the draft law of conversion, sharing the opposite view in the part which provided for referral to the ministerial regulation. I come to the conclusion because so much has been said and there are many problems that have already been considered. I am satisfied with the work carried out by the Special Commission that it has managed to improve a measure by providing for the deletion of the provisions that provided for a blank delegation to the Government, to fill a current regulatory vacuum and to prevent the provisions of the Decree-Law from creating, in fact, discrimination. But now it is time for all of us to take responsibility for the commitment to deepen the topic by starting an analytical study of the subject at the Commissions of merit, following an orderly path that includes the hearing of interested parties in order to make changes to the current legislation, so that it is able to guarantee the right care to patients and ensure the respect due that also the scientific academy deserves. In doing so, however, we must remember that we must leave it to those who suffer the right to hope. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bignami and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u50	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u51	Mr President, according to the information that the Minister has provided to the Special Commission, it appears that today 1,045 patients are hospitalized in psychiatric hospitals, including 81 women. The first article of the decree-law that we are discussing provides, in the first place, for the extension of one year for the completion by the Regions of alternative structures to psychiatric hospitals, bringing the end to 31 March 2014. This delay has basically been caused by the lengthening of the time allowed to define the requirements that must characterize the structures. The article defines, first of all, the indispensable financial measures to ensure the pursuit of the activities of existing structures (among other things, making a calculation, given the estimated expenditure of about 6 million euros for about 1,000 people, turns out that the expenditure per person amounts to approximately 6,000 euros per year). The article was also an opportunity to refine the legislative system thanks to the preparation of measures aimed at making it easier for the magistrates of surveillance chosen different from the internment through the realization of a series of territorial services, contrasting incorrect interpretations concerning the mere substitution of national structures with regional structures, as well as measures to enhance the aspect of psychiatric treatment compared to that of mere custody, in particular through the realization of individual therapeutic-rehabilitative paths and the training of dedicated personnel. In addition, it contains the forecast of substitute commissioner interventions in case of non-compliance by one or more regions, identifying a single commissioner for all possible defaulting regions, although - it should be remembered - almost all the Regions have submitted an implementing programme that very often provides the possibility to use existing hospital structures readapting them for this purpose, and some of them have already begun to prepare the necessary structures. This article is an important step towards the effective and not only abstract recognition of the status of a person in need of treatment among those who are admitted to judicial psychiatric facilities. The hope is that the whole process can be carried out without further delay. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u52	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u53	Senator colleagues, the debate on the decree-law that we are debating today has brought to the fore the need for regulation that is punctually protecting public health and that, at the same time, allows access to care in a universal way, as provided for in our Constitution. During the discussion in the Special Commission we demonstrated that we had made the exclusive interest of the community and sick children trying to protect both children and the State from speculation dictated by business patterns. We are also pleased to have incorporated the Decree-Law with an amendment calling for transparency in the provision of data, procedures and results, pointing out a need for control over management that commits Parliament to continue its work pro futuro, not by restricting itself to extemporaneous legislation that ends with the adoption of acts of competence, but by monitoring the effects of what has been decided in Parliament and in the Commission. We cannot allow a laxist attitude to be perpetuated over time, which then goes to the detriment of the collective interest, and above all of public health, especially on issues such as stem care, which, although at an advanced stage of study, have not yet given scientific certainty of the result and above all of the safety of the patient. This is an argument that would have deserved much more time for analysis and discussion than the government imposed by this decree-law, which did not leave the opportunity to listen to the citizens involved. With this we return again to the need for the formation of permanent committees, which discuss in physiologically useful times on major issues such as stem treatments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The scientific community takes years to deliver reliable results and it is not conceivable that a special Commission will have to derogate from the law in a matter of hours. We wanted to actually listen to families, doctors, the scientific community and we could not do it, with the awareness of the possibility of making the Public Health Service an excellence by allocating research funding for the most qualified and better structured structures. The transparency and monitoring of the treatment will allow us to act quickly on the possibility of extending to all concretely established and validated treatments, without risking, in an attempt to be of help, to cause greater damage. For this reason, we call for a commitment from the Government to undertake, without delay, in the relevant national and Community fora, pathways aimed at redefining the criteria for the implementation of GMP and GLP procedures, which determine the characterisation of laboratories for stem cell manipulation, in order to allow access and operational feasibility under conditions of absolute safety also to operators with low economic and financial availability. We also ask the Government to simplify in time and economic terms the procedures for obtaining the GMP certification issued in our country, in order to allow a greater development of research for stem cell treatments. We also call for action to be taken to uniquely identify stem cell treatments and their manipulations that may fall within the scope of pharmacological care or the category of transplants. We also call for the technical and economic reporting of the work table opened in September 2012 on studies and the use in Italy of mesenchymal stem cells, as well as to promote, as far as competence is concerned, initiatives that guarantee the development and the definition of a precise regulatory framework on the subject of which in premise, also with reference to stem cells of umbilical origin. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u54	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u55	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration in this House consists of three articles, the first of which concerns psychiatric hospitals and is intended, in a nutshell, to extend the deadline of 31 March 2013 provided for in Decree-Law No 211 of 2011, from which the security measures for the admission to psychiatric hospital and the assignment to nursing homes must be carried out exclusively within structures intended for this purpose. This extension, of course, stems from the current lack of availability of such alternative health facilities. It is up to us to see that, almost a year after that decision, the solution envisaged has not found a sufficient course of implementation. On the one hand, we should express the greatest blame for this delay, because it is an issue which, as we read in the report, concerns a limited number of subjects and whose solution does not seem particularly intricate; on the other hand, the finding of the absolute impossibility of preparing the reception and the permanence in the aforementioned structures justifies the absolute necessity of the urgent extension. Article 2, for its part, contains a number of provisions to deal with certain emergencies arising in the production and use of advanced therapy medicinal products. Last night, the Senate Special Commission unanimously voted on the text as a synthesis between different positions, demonstrating that the Commissions are working to find quick and effective solutions to citizens' demands. As everyone knows, this House last 3 April approved by a very large majority the contrary opinion expressed by the Special Commission, on a proposal from Senator Bonfrisco, regarding the existence of the constitutional presuppositions of necessity and urgency, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to paragraph 1 of Article 2 of the decree under consideration. This provision authorized the Ministry of Health to regulate, with its own Regulation, some aspects of the application of the laws already in force regarding the use of advanced therapy medicines prepared on a non-repetitional basis and its deletion should therefore be welcomed. This is a sensitive matter, involving fundamental human rights, whose regulation reverberates its effects on human and family situations that are often characterized by deep suffering. Precisely for these reasons and temporarily without exquisitely technical and legal assessments, it is not only possible today to authorize a blank delegation to a government of very short duration, but it is necessary, in the immediate future, to enact an ordinary law, a source of primary rank and the result of an adequate investigation to be carried out in the competent parliamentary committees, that offers the necessary guarantees to the process of scientific research in Italy and that at the same time protect the fundamental right of the individual to health care, as laid down in Article 32 of our Constitution. On the other hand, the authorisation to continue treatment on individual patients with advanced therapy medicinal products based on mesenchymal stem cells initiated prior to the entry into force of this Decree-Law is shared. This is a provision which takes into account an ethical principle, which is widely followed in health, according to which an initiated health treatment that has not caused serious side effects should not be interrupted. I would add that it is also a common sense rule, as is demonstrated by the cases of some patients that we have had the opportunity to know both through the media and through the network. I believe that the solution to the problem of the use of advanced therapy medicinal products on a non-repetitive basis and the therapeutic use of medicinal products undergoing clinical trials cannot consist of an unnecessary and disorderly emergency decree, which not only does not solve the problems, but which, on the contrary, can worsen access to treatment by those who may have justified its usefulness and which, paradoxically, could facilitate the treatment of those who are not sure of drawing favourable results or even of those who might suffer harmful consequences. On the other hand, we consider it appropriate to prepare a more organic and rational measure that constitutes a real point of supply by the Public Health Service, and that, also through the Ministry's supervisory bodies, organizes a path in which it distinguishes itself as scientifically already rests on solid foundations compared to some confused theories. In conclusion, I believe that today, when dismissing this decree-law at first reading, this House has a duty to make a serious commitment to those families who, on a daily basis, live in situations of dramatic suffering, that is to say, to implement a law that provides a discipline in the field of scientific research in the field of health and that protects the right to the health of citizens. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u57	Mr President, I rise quickly to thank the Commission and all my fellow senators who have contributed to the drafting of a shared law that really brings something new in the area of health care that is being carried out. I am not referring to all the issues covered by the measure, not least because my colleague, Mr Nencini, has already expressed the Group's position. Moreover, I must also express my appreciation to Mr Laniece, who has expressed all the positions of the Group within the Commission, and has managed to carry out all our requests. I would also like to refer to a subject that has been dealt with several times in this House, which concerns stem cell treatment, because a truly paradoxical situation has been created in our community in particular in our 30s. I refer to the case of a three and a half-year-old girl who had been asked for this treatment and all the proceedings had already been initiated, but to whom this possibility was denied by the Government's decree, on the basis of a discriminatory principle on the basis of which those who had already begun treatment could continue it, while others could not access it, except for a provision of the judicial authority. A total solidarity for this family and for this legitimate battle for the right to health and hope has been unleashed in Val di Non. The Trento Court therefore recognised this right and imposed the administration of treatment. I must say that, once again, Italy has not made a good impression, because entrusting to a court the decision on whether or not to produce treatment is really a dangerous fall in politics. I am therefore very pleased that today the Senate restores the value and significance of legislative action, and therefore not only recognizes everyone's right to hope and equal care, but also initiates a serious experimentation and therefore allows us to start an experimental action that can - we hope all - produce results and give hope to those who unfortunately do not have it today, in the face of a situation that sees patients in particular at an early age moving towards an almost certain end. I believe that today we have really taken a step forward, we have also given credibility to the institutions, especially to Italian health and our health institutions. This has been done not only by taking into account the emotions that exist and we are all aware of them because they are difficult situations, but also by trying to give credibility to science and to give hospital and scientific institutions the means to do their best. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u58	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u59	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are considering concerns two particularly sensitive issues on which the Commission has worked with great commitment and also with the contribution of many Members. I begin with the first article, which provides for a one-year extension of the closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals. Much has already been said by those who preceded me. I merely point out and point out that the process of overcoming judicial psychiatric hospitals has been last disciplined, if we do not go too far in time, by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2008, together with two State-Regions agreements, respectively of 2009 and 2011, and finally by the decree-law that we are going to amend. In addition, we know that a number of judgments of the Constitutional Court, in particular No 253 of 2003 and No 367 of 2004, have also been made in a significant way. The delay that we are now observing regarding the overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals is unfortunately due to a widespread series of failures that we can consider embarrassing with respect to the dramatic situation, because since 2008 these failures by the Government, the Regions, the health companies and also the mental health departments have been aggravated by the cuts that have been made to welfare, in particular to health policies and social policies. The problem, however, is the abandonment of these patients. I would like to say a few words because these sick people are abandoned, as has been said, in unworthy places and, by their very nature, antitherapeutic. They are sick who in some way constitute a cause for great concern for all of us. This situation is a bit the mirror of how mental health services work, which suffer from great difficulties and great restrictions on staff and which, above all, up to now have not been able to claim more attention from those who allocate health budgets within the regions and health services. The measure that we are going to introduce, in addition to imposing on the Regions the preparation with certain times and precise methodologies of the progressive discharge of these patients, demands, precisely because of the dramatic situation, that the Ministry report to Parliament periodically on the discharge of these patients and possibly also provides for the establishment of a single commissioner, so that situations so gravely not respectful, not only of the norms, but also of the dignity of the people who have followed within the institutions, should not be repeated over time. Article 2 is an article that has required a lot of work because it deals with extremely sensitive subjects from the human point of view, as well as a very complex subject in all respects, both legal and clinical. Before commenting on the solutions to which the Commission has unanimously arrived, I would like to point out that we have worked to meet the requests for attention from the people involved in stem cell treatments. I would like not only to express my personal closeness to the families of seriously ill children and to people suffering from pathologies that are unfortunately not healable today. We understand the enormous emotional and care burden that requires assisting one's loved one so that to date there are no treatments or therapies of proven effectiveness and we realize that unfortunately these families are often little supported by structures even public following a dramatic diagnosis and this makes more acute the solitude and the search of every healing means of the same by the same, even with therapeutic solutions that are not always so clearly proven in their effectiveness. We are aware that for these families it is necessary to make innovative treatments available as soon as possible and we absolutely must not decelerate the progression of research. We are equally convinced that all citizens have the right to receive adequate information in relation to the safety and effectiveness of the treatments they are subjected to. We are also aware that health protection requires strictness and scientific validation, while respecting first and foremost the patients to whom the health system must ensure therapies consistent with the rules on the safety of treatments and their benefits. This is why we have worked in two main directions: the first concerns the guarantee of the continuation of the therapies already begun, the second the initiation of an experiment. With regard to the first aspect, the solution that has been proposed is precisely to ensure the continuation of the therapies already begun before the date of entry into force of the decree-law, but not under conditions of non-compliance with the current provisions, but under conditions of suitability for the laboratories and for the procedures that are adopted in accordance with the rules in force. In particular, we have indicated that treatments and laboratories must be consistent with the rules laid down in Legislative Decree No 191 of 2007, adopted in implementation of Directive No 23 of 2004, which concerns the quality and safety of human tissues and cells. This legislative decree provides for slightly less stringent eligibility requirements than those for the preparation of pharmaceutical products on a large scale at an industrial level. We have also provided that, if these skills are not met, laboratories and procedures can be made suitable within 60 days. The second important measure we have been working on is to ensure experimentation, within a framework of certain rules for the protection of patients. Patients can further access treatment within eighteen months of the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree-law, with some precise specifications. Firstly, to those with rare diseases, the number of patients who have access to treatment is limited. This specification includes those children patients who have been the subject of great attention from all, the scientific community, the political world and the media. Advanced mesenchymal stem cell therapies are the treatments we refer to, with the exception of gene therapy medicines and tissue engineering products. I would therefore just like to reiterate that the text has nothing to do with embryonic cells, if anything this clarification was necessary. Also in this case it is expected that the experimentation must be done in compliance with the rules provided for in Legislative Decree No. 191 of which we have just said with regard to the previous case, and of what is provided for in the State-Regions Agreement regarding the requirements of the structures that perform transplants of organs and tissues and the minimum standards of activity, referred to in Article 16 of Law No. 91 of 1999, that on transplants. The objective is that experimentation should be done in a strict scientific context. At the end of the experiment we will have the possibility, as parliamentary committees competent in this matter and as Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, to know the outcome and, starting from this, of course, it will be decided what is the treatment that may possibly be provided within the National Health Service. This is what we considered necessary in order to protect the safety and quality of treatments, in the interest, firstly, of the patients that the National Health Service has in charge. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u60	The general debate is closed. I shall return the replies of the rapporteur and the Government, the examination of the amendments, the explanations of vote and the final vote to the afternoon sitting at 4.30 p.m., so that a number of speeches can now be made on the events which took place yesterday and on other subjects, of which the Presidency was requested at the beginning of the sitting, so that they can have an adequate space, also in view of the planned commitments concerning the Conference of the Leaders, the Presidency Council and other deadlines. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u63	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, I do not want to go back to what Mr Palma and Mr Volpi have said very correctly in relation to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure. This is an issue that we absolutely must address and discuss, because the Rules of Procedure are in force. When we speak on a point of order or on a point of order, we should do so at the end of the sitting, but that has absolutely not been established. Mr President, at the beginning of the sitting I wanted to call the House on what happened yesterday. Mr President, we are talking about democracy and the correctness of the work. I then wondered if perhaps - at nighttime - the Rules of Procedure of the Senate had been changed to allow the House to occupy the 4 Star Movement Group (because every time you do a nonsense you have to remove a star). [[Applause from the PdL Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] For what? I am certainly not naive, and I know that this House has also witnessed major debates, including riots, but underneath there was an idea, a perspective, a political projection. It wasn't a jaculatory happy hour streaming. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Among other things, Mr President, there has been a double violation, because it has taken place, not only a genuine occupation, but also streaming, which is not allowed. In the Chamber of Deputies the meeting of the Conference of the Leaders was also resumed and anticipated before its end. Since I am a member of the Presidency Council (I have the honour of being elected Secretary), I wonder: who pays the costs? I am referring to the costs of lighting, of salesmen, of officials and - at this point - of the House. Is it allowed to all, or only to some? Any capricious kids leaving here at 10:00? [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I am very happy to receive their approval. The 4 Star Movement has a Senator Commissioner. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For this reason, I will ask that the Quaestors do well the accounts for these extras and that they be charged to the Group. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I shall put this issue in the Presidency Council, because if a group is allowed to speak in this House, not democratically, but to do something else and to make itself known on our shoulders, then we must change the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] So, at this point, you have to allow every senator to be happy hour. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] You can also applaud. Yesterday I couldn't turn off the light because there's glass and they didn't let me. Next time, if President Grasso allows it and the Rules of Procedure will be changed, you will bring the motolotti, because you will do your jaculatory in the dark [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : Mocolotti, ramazze, brooms and rags, because you will also clean the benches. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u66	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I would like to start with a costume comment. Given that I agree with the underlying thrust of Mr Mussolini's arguments, I would like to say to my colleagues and friends in the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group that it usually loudly cries out those who have weak thoughts, certainly not in the sense of one of the currents of contemporary philosophy. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] On the question that has been raised with regard to the employment of this House, I believe that this was a violation of the rules. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] Certainly the argument is valid, because this House is the place of the political argument for which it is a sign of the drift - alas almost unstoppable - of the custom and of the political language to replace the argument with the "likes" or the chirping. Politics is based on the explanation of the motivations that are at the origin of each one's commitment and passion. I was saying, beyond the issue of costs and constraints that employees have been subjected to, there is a fundamental assessment that does not allow me to appreciate the behaviour of my colleagues. The subject is as follows: Whereas this House cannot and will not be the bivouac of any handpiece, not even five-star [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and LN-Aut groups]] I believe that this occupation was nothing less than a manifestation of rhetoric than politics. This is because it adds nothing to the reasons behind it. The underlying motivation is the issue on which we are all reflecting the failure to set up the Commissions. Well, just yesterday speaking very quietly, as should be custom of all (I believe that we should all strive to promote a purification of our language, because language is also the mirror of the political soul) I told some colleagues - that I respect - of the 5 Star Movement, that at the origin of the dissidio and, let's face it, of the opposition that at this moment sees us on non-compatible assessments there is a data in my opinion fundamental. Our Constituents - just read the preparatory work of the Constitutional text - when they questioned the regulation of the mechanisms of representation, categorically excluded the figure of the Assembly Government. It is not practicable for the Government of Parliament in a Parliament which is based on that constitutional text and on those ideal and theoretical foundations. Therefore, on behalf of my Group too, I can only dissociate myself from behaviors which we cannot share and which do not add a plausible motivation to the legitimate question that is being asked. We all feel that it is a sort of deprivation that the Commissions are not operational, but the issue of regulating the relations between the majority and the minority and that of defining the rules by which the elections of the Presidents and the Bureaus are defined are not subjects that can be eluded, because above all here the form is the substance of political confrontation. [[Applause from groups of PD, PdL and SCpI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u69	Orellana (M5S). Mr President, my speech will be brief and will simply be aimed at stigmatizing the broken speeches, out of place of my colleague Mr Mussolini: the one at the beginning of the sitting and the one he has repeated now. As the Presidency has pointed out, speeches outside the agenda are only permitted at the end of the sitting, and Mr Mussolini spoke at the beginning. We like the application of the rules, but we did not see the same here on the part of our colleague. It is a way of putting oneself and acting, that is to say the failure to respect the Rules of Procedure which we have unfortunately also noted on other occasions and by other groups. For example, some Groups have not yet appointed their representatives in the individual standing committees 20 days after they were set up. Yet article 21, paragraph 1, of the Regulation imposed the five-day deadline, i.e. March 24 (which was Sunday), moved to March 25 (Monday). This date was then moved to April 4th, but we understand that to date, April 10th, this obligation is still undesired. I would remind the speaker before he also shouts loudly at those who suffer injustice, and it is not just us who suffer it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to the problem - which is quite ridiculous, allow me, Mr Mussolini - of the expenses incurred last night, I would remind you that we have renounced EUR 42 million of public funding for the elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mussolini (PdL). That's enough! Orellana (M5S). In order to return to the reason for our protest, restricting parliamentary work to a single special Commission composed of colleagues allologists - which is not - is unacceptable to us. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Go to the hotel! Orellana (M5S). Going back to Mr Mussolini's initial speech, we were surprised to define which juxtapositions our reading of the articles of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure was. "Ignorant quem portum petat nullus suus ventus est ": no wind is favorable for the sailor who does not know which port he wants to land. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our jaculatories are just a recitation of popular devotion for our port that we want to achieve: the Constitution, the rules and the moral integrity. [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the whole Assembly, I would like to greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Nicola Badaloni in Montefano, in the province of Macerata, who are attending our work from the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u73	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, it is precisely by greeting the students and teachers present in the gallery that I would like to draw attention to the school. Over the past five years, the schools have received 90,990 more pupils, to whom 9,000 more teachers should have been assigned. Due to the cuts referred to in Article 64 of Law No 133 of 2008 and the no reversal of trends by the Technical Government, we recorded 81,614 teachers and 43,878 ATA personnel less. The consequences of these cuts are obvious. The limit of 20 pupils per class in the presence of a student with disabilities is hardly ever respected. The safety standards of classrooms due to overcrowding are also not respected. Families are not adequately answered to the full-time demand and the waiting lists in the childhood school are back to growth all over the country, due to the decommitment of the state and the cuts in the budgets of the local authorities. In the next school year there will be a 50% reduction in the pensions of teaching staff and non-teaching schools. There are 3,500 teachers who were entangled in the Fornero reform - those of the 96 quota that had to meet the requirements in August - while the article voted in the spending review that forces sick teachers to pass in ATA roles, dismissing another 3,500 people. Currently we have rankings that count over 180,000 precarious, but 76,000 of these work in fact every year, hired at the beginning of the school year and fired in June. These people can be stabilised without increasing the costs for the State, in particular by ensuring that children with disabilities - especially teachers - continue to teach, that is to say, a large part of the quality of the school. That is why, Mr President, I would ask you to take responsibility for our request to Mr Profumo to come and report to the House on the conditions of staff for the regular start of the next school year and, above all, on the conditions of precariousness in which the school is placed, with a serious problem for the quality of the teaching offered to our children. Above all, I would like to know how the Minister intends to ensure and make effective the right of children and girls between the ages of three and six, guaranteed by Law No 53 of 2003 defining the school of children and the school of children. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u76	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to report to this House the news of yet another tragedy which has occurred as a result of the economic and social crisis. He was found dead in a grove in the area of Pedavena, a municipality of Belluno where I live, a 46-year-old man from Feltre who had moved away from home on the afternoon of the previous day and whose death had been reported by the family. According to investigative hypotheses man killed himself for fear of losing his job. According to several testimonies collected by the carabinieri, the man, dependent of a company of glasses that announced possible mobility measures, had long manifested the fear of being among the people put on mobility. This is only the last of the long series of tragedies that is consumed in what was a rich and productive area of the North-East. Perhaps this House, which is trying to unravel political matasses from the old Republic, has lost its sense of reality. I have just arrived and come from there, from that territory and from those companies, and do you know what the prevailing climate is, colleagues? It is the fear, the fear of entrepreneurs to close and to be forced to fire, the fear of not being able to work and of not being able to work. There is no work, there is no orders, there is no oxygen represented by credit from the banks, but on the other hand there is, indeed, the game of bureaucracy. Stop. We must act immediately to allow the virtuous Municipalities to use their resources for the development of their territories. We need to loosen the burden of bureaucracy. I am here to bring the voice of both entrepreneurs and workers, who, although unjustly opposed by the economic crisis and by the measures voted by this Government, the Monti Government, feel the same way, i.e. vexed and abandoned by the State. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u79	Mr Paglini (M5S). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 April 1991 the greatest tragedy of the Italian merchant navy took place. Just outside the port of Livorno 140 people died in the moby prince ferry fire. 22 years have passed since that evening of April 10 and, despite two judicial investigations, this tragedy remains wrapped in a halo of mystery. After all these years as an explanation, the cynic destiny and the fog to which the then Minister Vizzini and the commander of the Albanian office have been held responsible cannot suffice. A fog that was initially given for certain, then for years it was said that it was not there; now it would return to be the only responsible one. An anomalous and circumscribed fog that, according to the same commander Albanese, had never seen in the port of Livorno. In fact, many have never seen it, as for example the marine sighter in service that evening, that from his station confirmed a complete visibility that allowed him to see all the ships in rada outside the port of Livorno; a fog bench that, according to the experts, in order to be explainable and plausible, would have had to travel against wind and at remarkable speed. Well, that explanation cannot be enough. After 22 years, it is time to clarify. Perhaps it will be necessary to carefully assess the historical context in which the Moby Prince ferry was transiting. That evening, in fact, was the last night before the official term of the Gulf War and, given that the port of Livorno is located adjacent to the entrance of the great American military base Camp Darby, in that section passed numerous cargo ships militarized back from the war and, presumably, loaded with weapons and ammunition and, presumably, under careful surveillance. There are some new elements in this sense: we read in the newspapers these days that a private technical expertise would finally give a name to what for all these years seemed like a ghost ship, of which, thanks to radio recordings, we knew of the presence on that night on the scene of the accident, but which still had no name and which, according to this study, would be just one of those militarized ships. We ask ourselves questions; friends, relatives, victims' acquaintances ask questions, and no answers come. We do not know if this is the right direction that will lead us to the truth, but we certainly do not have to leave anything of intent. That is why we ask the minister responsible to acquire all the data and report back to Parliament on this. It is possible that it is necessary to look at the picture closest to the incident and to make further investigations on how and why there were tampers on board the ferry once brought back to port, on the deficiencies in the matter of safety evidenced from the investigations and therefore on eventual responsibility of the shipowner. It will be necessary to clarify once and for all the position of the oil tanker AGIP Abruzzo at the moment of the collision, an element never completely established; we must try to proceed to a serious and rigorous search for the truth. In short, it is right that at this moment Italy comes out of the dark, it is no longer forced to be considered the country of mysteries. We therefore ask, although perhaps it will not be possible for the prescriptions around the corner, for Parliament to take responsibility and possibly, even through a committee of inquiry, to shed light, in order to give at least one historical truth to the country, about what happened that evening. We call, Mr President, and colleagues, for the memory of the many victims to be respected with one minute's silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u80	It is a fair request that we share: let us observe a minute's silence to remember the victims of the Moby Prince. [[The Assembly stands and observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u83	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I wanted to draw the attention of this House and the Presidency to a problem that concerns work, one of the many people who is currently living in our country; I want to pay particular attention to the scale of the number and also to the importance of the work we are talking about. I am referring to the reorganization of Selex Es. Since January 1, 2013, all defense electronics have been reorganized into a single company, Selex Es. On 5 April a meeting of the new company with the unions was held and 2,529 redundancies were announced, on a total number of employees equal to 17,700 worldwide, in particular, 1,938 in Italy with a half of the Italian sites, which would be reduced from 48 to 26. Therefore, at a time when the difficulties at work are so fierce in all our territories, there are new critical issues about work that affect several cities of Italy. I know, in particular, the situation in Genoa (which was Elsag-Selex Communications and part of Selex Sistemi Integrati), but this situation is found differently in various territories (some Senators of the Democratic Party of Tuscany yesterday put a question on the subject), and therefore the problem is general and national. It is the largest group of defence electronics in Italy, and therefore a piece of the future technology and development of our country. The need for reorganization cannot simply be linked to cost cuts or jobs, but it must also provide for a revival, because otherwise our country is in crisis. With regard to this situation, I ask for attention from the Government, because - I remember - it is a Finmeccanica group and 32% of Finmeccanica is controlled by the Treasury (so we are talking about the majority shareholder). As for some strategic projects followed by these companies - I am thinking of SISTRI and TETRA - it is in fact the Italian Government, the Italian system, that asks for such work. Therefore, attention is needed not only to the current process of reorganization, but also to the relaunch and the way in which the whole country system, in a revision of workloads, imagines to contribute, so that jobs are not closed, they do not close possibilities, but open new ones on new industrial plans. I think the focus on this should be maximum, not only for the numbers I'm talking about, but also for the quality... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u84	Senator Pinotti, the time at your disposal is over. However, I allow you to conclude quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u85	Mr Pinotti (PD). I've heard much longer surgeries, but still I'm done. I conclude by stressing that on this subject, together with my colleagues, Mr Caleo, Mr Vattuone, Mr Albano and Mr Guerrieri Paleotti, I have tabled a question. I believe that the issue of labour and industrial policies is one that we will have to follow very carefully. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u88	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, I would like to put to the House the fact that yesterday you saw the drafting of 'La Stampa' which was the subject of an attack, fortunately not completed, with a bomb package. The news is from yesterday, and today in the newspapers there is a reminder of what has happened. The gravity of the attack is linked to the chance of the failure of the device that could have killed, unlike equally serious attacks but which had as their goal only - let's say - to be a demonstration, and to the fact that it was implemented against one of the largest Italian newspapers. I believe that this has to do with the attempt by some fringes to strike free information. Of course, certificates of solidarity have been communicated to the newspaper, to the editorial staff, to the workers, but I believe that these certificates require unanimity. That is why I have asked to speak, and - I stress this in advance - mine does not want to be an intervention of low-profile political polemic. Nor do I believe that this issue should concern the political exponent, or rather the political force to which this political exponent belongs, who yesterday made a statement in which, certainly condemning the attack, he felt, however, to emphasize that his political force is fighting for the cutting of funding to newspapers, which could also produce the closure of some newspapers. It is a conditional solidarity: solidarity yes, but letting us know: We are opposed to newspapers and journalists enslaved to the established power. I imagine that the theme concerns the institutional figure (a Piedmontese regional councillor of the 5 Star Movement) and not - I hope so - the 5 Star Movement, because, as this morning says very well in its column Massimo Gramellini, that bomb that could explode would not have hit the system or the caste, would have hit Gianpaolo, a great man with two children, a wife, a mortgage, who for over twenty years stands up at 5 in the morning to go to work. I believe that condemnations and solidarity are necessary, that there must never be ambiguity about such things: it must be remembered that there are people who are affected and who have as their sole fault that they go to work to support their family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u89	I think I can say that the whole House, in addition to the Presidency, joins in its words to express solidarity with the director, the press, the entire editorial staff and the newspaper's staff who are the victims of such a serious threat. As for the events that took place yesterday, I believe that the Presidency should not add anything to the authoritative and responsible considerations that were expressed yesterday evening by the Presidents of the Senate and the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-11.ana.u90	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12:37 a.m.
