ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) Colleagues, the Commissions are organized according to the work of the Assembly, so a few minutes before the opening of the Chamber must be disconcerted. So, who's there and who's not there isn't there. The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.34 a.m. and resumed at 9.54 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u6	Colleagues, let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the quorum to be checked again. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:56 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1014.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u14	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u15	Mr President, the government welcomes him.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u16	Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.208 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u17	Mr President, I welcome Amendments Nos 12,200 and 12.3. I am against Amendments 12.1, 12.2 and 12.4. I withdraw amendment 12.5, on which there is an opinion contrary to the 5th Commission. On Amendments 12.0.1, 12.0.2 and 12.0.3 on which there is an opinion contrary to the 5th Commission, I call for a withdrawal, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u18	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u19	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u22	Are you still complaining about the same problem as yesterday? Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Yes, Mr. President. We can't hear her. You can't hear his microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u23	For me the case that is on the left side of the hemicycle is detached. Already yesterday I reported the problem to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u26	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 12.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u27	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 10.16 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10 a.m. and resumed at 10.16 a.m.) Let's resume our work. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12,200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 12,200, tabled by Senator Villari and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). Colleagues, I invite you to proceed to the vote in good time. With these digital answers I fear for the conversion of this decree! The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 12.1 tabled by Senator Panizza. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u30	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I apologise but I did not understand what amendment we came to because even before, when she spoke, nothing was truly understood. Unfortunately, there is a noise in this House that makes us not understand anything. I wanted to know if there has been any discussion of Amendment 12.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator Panizza, we just voted Panizza (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, then I must point out that I have asked for the floor several times. In this House, however, we can never be understood, neither by gestures nor by words, because there is total chaos. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, unfortunately the repair of the amplification system involves the use of the days of the weekend. In order to be able to proceed in our work, I call for the utmost silence on the part of the House because, otherwise, we cannot proceed. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would ask you to speak on Amendment 12.2, which reflects the same logic as the previous Amendment 12.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I wanted to point out to the Government that this decree-law brings great innovations in the area of the possibility for individuals to deduct the amounts in support of the world of culture. This is really the central point of the decree-law: it simplifies procedures and involves the private in the maintenance and enhancement of the Italian cultural and architectural heritage. At the moment, however, when we continually set limits, we negate the effectiveness of this decree-law. Providing a maximum of 5,000 euros for private donations leads to poor efficiency. I had proposed the amount of EUR 30,000, but I would ask for at least EUR 20,000 proposed by Mr Nencini in his amendment (which I also signed). To give the possibility of increasing this limit seems absolutely necessary to me, if we do not want this measure to become ineffective. When a private person makes his resources available to the world of culture, we can really show a little more willingness rather than limit that availability to EUR 5,000. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u31	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12.2 tabled by Senator Nencini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12.3 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.4 Nominal vote by simultaneous vote by the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 12.4 tabled by Senator Nencini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 12.5 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 12.0.1, 12.0.2 and 12.0.3 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 13 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u32	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 13.1 (text 2) and 13.2 (text 2). I am also in favour of the G13.100 agenda. With regard to the additional amendments, I withdraw Amendment 13.0.500 and I am against Amendment 13.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u33	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u34	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.1 (text 2). FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, on all the amendments referred to in Article 13. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 13.1 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.2 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 13.2 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the G13.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 13.0.500 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 13.0.1, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u35	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw Amendment 14,200, otherwise the opinion is against it. Also with regard to the agenda G14,100 call for withdrawal, because it deals with an issue which is totally unrelated to the subject, because it relates to car taxes: otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u36	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u37	In view of the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 14,200 is impervious. Senator Gibiino accepts the invitation to withdraw the agenda G14.100? Gibiino (PdL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would remind you that Amendments 14.0.2 and 14.0.1 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 15 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u38	Mr President, with regard to Amendment 15.1 there is a correct text and then there is a proposal that incorporates the opinions expressed by the 5th Commission and that is Amendment 15,500, on which I am in favour. I then give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G15.1 and G15.2. I'll take this one because it's over the terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u39	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u40	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.1 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u43	FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u44	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 15.1 (correct text) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 15.500. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 15,500 tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Senator Centinario, do you insist on voting on agenda G15.1? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agendas G15.1, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G15.2 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u47	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I apologise, but I have retabled the G9.208, which the rapporteur asked me yesterday to reformulate, making the system more explicit.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u48	Senator Panizza, the G9.208 agenda has already been adopted. We now come to the examination of an amendment to insert an additional article after Article 1 of the draft law of conversion, which is already intended to be presented. I would remind you that the Commission's 5th opinion on this amendment is contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u51	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in accordance with Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask whether it is possible to vote separately on Amendment X1.1. In particular, I would ask you to vote on the first part of the amendment to the words 'abrogate' and then on the second part, which starts at point 2 to point 4, including point (i).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u52	I submit to the House the proposal to vote on Amendment X1.1 separately, provided that we get to the vote, given the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u55	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we are against the vote both because the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion against Article 81 of the Constitution and for reasons of substance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u56	I put to the vote the proposal to vote on amendment X1.1 for separate parts, tabled by Senator Santangelo. It's not approved. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment X1.1 is impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u59	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE on this measure, which introduces important innovations in the field of culture. In fact, first of all the sector returns to the centre after it has been sacrificed for many years and which has not been recognized the strategic value it has for the development and growth of our country. This decree-law confirms the added value that culture can also give to the productive world and to our society. In particular, I am satisfied because it has dealt with certain issues related to certain sectors that... (Brusio). Mr President, believe me: we cannot talk with this confusion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I first reported a failure in the amplification system. I ask the courtesy of letting Senator Panizza speak. Otherwise, I will suspend the sitting. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). As I said, this decree-law really introduces many new things and puts culture at the centre of even more general interest. However, it also intervenes specifically on some sectors that are in great difficulty, in particular the theatres and lyrical-symphonic foundations. Moreover, many of the amendments and agendas that have been tabled have dealt with a number of specific issues. I am referring, for example, to the inclusion, in yesterday's afternoon sitting, of the G7.15 agenda on a possible exemption from the payment of copyright, both for events with a few spectators and for those organised by voluntary associations. In some ways this decree-law values culture as a factor of excellence, as an area capable of giving added value to our society, and, on the other hand, underlines its social value, the value that can lead to the cohesion of a community. It is therefore a measure that, adjusted and integrated, can really grasp all the positive aspects in the field of cultural growth. I think it is particularly important - as I said earlier - to facilitate donations to the cultural world. The limits have been slightly increased, but above all the procedures have been simplified. We all know how difficult the practice has been to sponsor the restoration of the Colosseum: I hope that, from now on, we can really facilitate private individuals who want to contribute to the restoration and enhancement of our cultural heritage. Clearly, much still needs to be done. Yesterday there was talk of the reform of the SIAE: this is an area that must absolutely be reformed; moreover, in the framework of the law of stability, yesterday the will to put hand was announced. This decree-law then addresses, finally, the need that culture can contribute to the growth of the economy in Italy; therefore, a culture that characterizes, that gives, that is also able to make attractive our industrial and craft production; a culture that gives typicality and that, in particular, can help the growth and development of tourism. We are all aware of the importance of infrastructure and services, but culture gives that something more that loyalty the tourist, which makes him understand that that territory has something different than others, also in the relationship with the community that inside it lives. Today, therefore, culture serves the territory to make it more attractive and competitive compared to the outside, but it also serves to increase the degree of awareness, consciousness and cohesion of its community. For this reason, culture must be accessible. We therefore need to improve the accessibility of our cultural heritage, we need to widen the audience. Young people today find it difficult to access certain cultural proposals. That's why I like to talk about welfare or the well-being of culture. Society needs to expand its offer. We need to create more networks, more systems. We need to strengthen the districts, which do not exist or are incomplete today, just as we need to talk about sustainability. Nobody in this House wants cathedrals in the desert but, on the contrary, structures accessible and used by everyone. Within a cultural and architectural heritage of enormous value like the one that our country owns, we are facing today challenges that we must absolutely win, as I said before. There is that of quality and excellence: without quality and excellence, culture is not able to grow a territory and make it competitive. There is the challenge of participation, because culture must be for everyone and it must be a widespread good. Always with reference to excellence, it is necessary to ensure that cultural volunteering, when it possesses its numbers and talent, turns into professional opportunities. We must therefore see culture not only as an area that adds value to intelligence and creativity, but also creates jobs and cultural enterprises. We also need to improve cross-sectoralism, to connect culture with the business world and also with the world of prevention, because the knowledge society serves to create more aware citizens and, therefore, even more responsible citizens. I also remember that knowledge of other cultures allows our society to be more tolerant: those who know respect and, therefore, there can only be great advantages when a society invests in culture. Finally, I would like to focus on new technologies, an area in which Italy is still lagging behind. Technology helps us spread culture and make it perceptible to everyone. Unfortunately, this issue has been neglected in the decree-law for our examination. I therefore hope that we will be able to spread new technologies more widely because they can help us make culture more accessible anywhere, not only in cities, but also in remote and remote areas. There would still be a lot to say, because the decree-law also addresses the theme of audiovisual and cinematographic productions; in this field the evolution of techniques is really huge and I hope that Italy can overcome this challenge of modernity. Today, I have to say it with great regret, we are really behind. However, we appreciate the Government's efforts and the innovative content that this decree-law has brought. In view of the very short deadlines for its approval, I believe that the result is absolutely positive and I would like to thank in particular the Minister, who has shown great willingness to accept some of our proposals, although I have no doubt that perhaps a little more courage would have been important. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u62	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in declaring the Grand Autonomous Group's vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law in question, I would like to stress that this measure must certainly be seen as a reversal of the trend towards so much inattention of the past in a fundamental matter. That is a good thing. Despite the great work of the 7th Commission, which was marked by a choral commitment by the Commissioners and an excellent synthesis work by President Marcucci, rapporteur of the measure in this House, there are, however, some doubts as to the way in which the measure was designed and brought to the attention of the House. It is a positive note because it underlines the will of the Government to reverse the trend compared to the management of what is the most important good that this country finds to have and that has often been neglected in the past by previous Executives. We want to consider this measure a real, initial, new investment in culture, but it is a path that we have just taken and that must be done without emphasis. It is an opening of credit that we want to give to the Government because there are many elements of concern deriving from the disparity of intervention and attention to the sites and to some different territorial realities of our country. The proposed speeches, as the rapporteur, Mr Marcucci, has honestly acknowledged, continue to be of an extraordinary nature. They still cannot enter into an ordinary logic, an orderly and constant recomposition that culture has been demanding for years in this country. Then, we can only hope that concrete initiatives, regulations finally aim at the protection, recovery, valorization and use of cultural goods, which are the real resource of this country. We need a true cultural revolution; we need a true revolution of politics towards the organization of support for cultural assets and initiatives that are always fertile and rich in Italy. The exclusion of this world from linear cuts is also positive; it is positive that the proceeds from cultural initiatives are re-invested in the same sector. Less positive is the aspect of financial resources, which remain scarce and (as is evident in the provision) unevenly distributed: we deal with Pompeii, well; we deal with the Uffizi Gallery, the National Museum of Judaism and the Shoah in Ferrara and everything else; but we forget other important sites or, better, we establish too low a post for all the other great sites scattered on the Italian territory. With regard to the covering mechanisms, we once again use resources that we had identified for the revival of the economy and once again we turn to excise duties: I am thinking of one example, that of the fall in the price of fuel oils on the costs incurred by industrial production. In any case, in order to make a contribution, I would like to stress what is positive in this measure. With regard to the site of Pompeii, to think of a new organization of management of such an important site, which has received great national and international resources, is good, but this road must be valid for everyone. This innovative management approach must be extended to many other sites: the Hellenistic ones, the Arab-Norman ones already mentioned, the Romanesque sites or the Baroque ones, some of which protected by UNESCO that declared them a World Heritage Site, or the great sites of the Mezzogiorno, with which we still record a deafening silence. Another aspect to be positively evaluated and that we greet, for charity, as an attempt, again in this case, to give a breath of oxygen to the involvement of young people, is that of the inventory and digitization of the Italian cultural heritage. Let us be careful, however: talking about "500 young people for culture" risks being just a slogan, and indeed it is and can lead to frustration in the kids who are hired but only for a year, without considering that we burn a year of experience of young people for whom we must instead think of a definitive insertion in order to enhance the acquired competence. With this hypocritical attitude there is a risk of feeding expectations that come to fall on time. Another aspect to consider is the attempt to launch a system of digitisation and cataloguing in national libraries. We must not forget that national libraries collect the compulsory deposits of publications for the purpose of fulfilling the obligations of the Press and Publishing Act, but Italian libraries are not yet equipped to cope with these burdens. This is, therefore, a serious obstacle to the promotion of online publishing which has implications for copyright, a slowing down of publishing operations and a real manifestation of backwardness in the formation of an online library heritage with the collection of the most recent texts. It is an obstacle that I hope should be considered. We welcome the intervention on tax credit, which plans an attention of resources towards an important world that is that of cinematography. We also welcome the resources that are stationed in favour of live shows. In this context, the LAG Group had proposed a number of amendments which were not accepted and which were transformed into agendas which the Government wanted to consider. In them we asked for greater attention not only for live performances of musical type, but also for the small forms of live show that continue the theatrical dimension: these are precious arrangements that come from the spontaneous initiative of young people, which serve to contribute really to the cultural growth of the territory without having commercial ambitions. A praise, yes, goes to the urgent dispositions for the lyric-symphonic foundations, a precious heritage of our country, that with this provision we hope they can have a breath of oxygen. But even in that case it is essential that the Government imposes a unique management on these foundations to avoid the repetition of the disasters that have occurred (yesterday we heard the former mayor of Cagliari) in some of these foundations and in some parts of the territory. So I repeat, starting with the conclusion, that positive notes are crossed with some underlined doubts. The Gruppo Grandi Autonomie e Libertà will not fail to support this measure, with the commitment to supervise, however, because in the future it starts again with an ordinary reorganization of the protection and revival of this supreme good of our country. One last remark: the world of culture is a reality that still draws positive attention to our country and its valorization demands the involvement of the private market. We therefore hope that, together with ordinary legislation to relaunch, the Government will be able to build that appeal, that public-private partnership that can allow, together with the fruition, also the wealth that derives from a unique and priceless heritage that we should always think about. [[Applause from the LAG Group and the Senators Marcucci and Mazzoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u65	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Commission and the Government for the debate we have had on this decree. I must say that the debate in this House has helped to highlight a reality known to many of us: the great difficulty of the world of culture, not only of cultural heritage, but the difficulty that for years and years has experienced the many forms of artistic expression of which our country is particularly rich. As we have said in the general debate, and we reiterate this now, we certainly acknowledge and acknowledge that the Minister has imposed a decree on the Government of broad understandings to talk about culture, a subject which is not at all present on the agenda of politics and not even in the media. However, it is a topic that speaks to so many workers, to so many citizens, to a country that has always had a great reference point in the world of culture. Unfortunately, as we have already said, the decree lacks an idea of the future of the world of culture: the decree rightly intervenes on emerging situations and on some points that emerged during our discussion. We have said that we would have preferred to think differently, to speak to the whole world of culture, to have time to involve it in this debate. We would have liked to see action taken not only on certain areas, but also on the protection and enhancement of our cultural heritage in the broadest sense, but also on how this sector could be re-launched socially, culturally and morally. But we are also aware that from a government of broad understanding perhaps we could not expect too much. On the other hand, the mark that this majority wanted to give to the decree has been evident in this continuous negotiation that we have witnessed both during the work in the Commission and in the debate in this House these days. I must stress that the political barter applied to the world of culture is indeed a sign of the impoverishment of politics itself. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] It could be done differently, better and more transparently. However we identify a number of positive elements, because they are money invested in culture, and we will keep high attention to the work done with this decree. We reiterate that we are very concerned about the 500 young graduates involved in digitization: a huge job, very useful. We hope, Minister, that the resources will be found to bring it to completion and not to leave it in half simply because it is finished the year; a job - we have said - that begins in experimental form in some regions, but that we hope can be extended to all the national territory; a job that cannot be done at the head of the local authorities and the Regions, but that must see the involvement of the institutions. I am also thinking of significant experiences that have been carried out over the years in some regions; I am thinking of the Charter of Cultural Heritage that has made Puglia and that you will certainly know very well. In my opinion, we will have to start a serious reflection sooner or later on the role of SIAE: not only on the issue of excessive remuneration, but on how copyright should not be considered merely a blockage to the dissemination and development of those very rich basic cultural experiences of which our country is particularly rich. I am thinking of youth and cultural associationism, I am also thinking of young artists who have a complicated and distant relationship from SIAE, to bring our discussion back to a concrete level. It was a bit embarrassing the majority silence and Government on the story of the 400,000 euros at the UNESCO World Forum of Culture in Florence. To date we still do not know which event this money will be destined for; it has not been clarified yesterday whether it will go to the Culture Forum or to Florens. Of course I am biased, I also know Florens and I know that it is a great cultural foundation, but sometimes humility in politics requires, if mistakes have been made, to admit them for an act of transparency towards the senators who have worked these weeks. I come to the question of lyrical institutions: Article 11 has undergone a series of changes; certainly the investment of 75 million euros represents a lifeblood towards all those lyrical entities that are experiencing a moment of great difficulty. We consider it serious, however, while avoiding forced liquidations in this way, that the crucial points of the recovery plans should concern staff. On this point we will continue to pay close attention to the agendas that we have presented, which concern precisely the possibility of protecting the right of precarious workers and redundancies to remain in their roles, and we will table amendments to both the law of stability and the decree on public administration. It must be clear, in fact, that the bad managements of the lyrical institutions are not the responsibility of those who work there, but of those who have directed them in recent years, of the supervisors and the institutions responsible for them. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bignami]] , whether they have the mayor directly on the board of directors or appoint their own delegate. In this regard, one point must be clear to all: given the cultural and even economic importance of our lyric institutions, it cannot be thought that mayors delegate direct responsibility to third parties. And responsibility is not only the legal one, but also the institutional and political one, the guarantee of having a cultural asset to re-launch. We in the Left Ecology and Freedom and the Mixed Group will vote in favour of the decree-law, because the money invested in culture for us is a positive way to try to restore confidence in a world that has been forgotten by politics for too many years. I finish my speech by stressing that we would have wanted more courage in finding the resources, because we would have preferred to find certain resources and not related to excise duties, perhaps choosing not to buy the F-35 and proposing a reduction in military expenditure. But we know that the confidence of this courage may have to place it in another Government, in a Government of change, what we hope Italy will have sooner or later. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u68	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, before I start my speech, I would like to make amends to my colleagues in the League Group, because if I had known what would have happened to the Commission, if I had known how this debate would have ended, we would have tabled only one amendment; we would have amended the title of this measure by calling it: Urgent provisions to try to protect, try to enhance and hope to re-launch cultural assets and activities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Unfortunately, this government of doing and this majority of doing (because at this point, Minister, I do not leave you alone and I leave the government alone in this responsibility) are very good at making the high-sounding titles of the measures that arrive in the Chamber. But then, when we go to see the content, unfortunately we always find difficulties and we always find many negative points. Let's see the downs. I would like to start with the question of tourism, which has been analysed very well in this House by my fellow Council. The amendment on this subject had a watchword: disinterest. You have not heard of tourism once; you have not spoken of it, you have not even touched on it. I am sorry, first of all, for what I have heard in this House from many of my colleagues. Secondly, I am sorry that even in this House alone there are senators who have powers, both in the competent Commission and in other Commissions, that perhaps this Government and this majority should use more. There are fellow senators who, alone, could change the course of tourism in Italy. And once again we haven't talked about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Then we think about the Pompeii problem; we don't remember it anymore because in these days and in these hours we have gone further. On July 23 there was a survey in Pompeii. As I have difficulty remembering things, I write them accordingly. I went to look at what was declared on that occasion in Pompeii. First of all, when we arrived in Pompeii there were all, starting with the President of the Region: the bishop and the priest of the country were missing and then there would be all. Well, certain things have been said. President Marcucci said: There are the conditions for turning Pompeii into an exceptional site. I repeat that we are talking about 23 July. Then architect Recchia said: "Pompei is an opportunity to show that things are doing well. Public opinion has a distorted image of Pompeii. Work is lagging behind, but agreements with the lenders will be respected. This is what has been said, they are textual words. President Marcucci said again: "Things are not as serious as they seem." Perfect. Dr. Fifty-four, the superintendent, reminded us of the need for administrative continuity.Then, worse still, she spoke of "bad press" - there are no journalists here - about the collapses. So the collapses are invented by the press. After 16 days, August 8th, what does the government do? He presents this decree-law in which we talk about Pompeii and upsets everything that was said on that occasion, disguising him. He appointed a general manager and also a deputy general manager: everyone had to be satisfied! [[Applause from the LNP-Aut and M5S Groups.]] We are not opposed to everything that is done in Pompeii, on the contrary, and we have told Pompeii, in the Commission and here. Let us hope that, given what you have approved so far, at least these 100 million will be well spent. We hope, Minister, and we hope that you will be the guarantor of this. Another problem is the 500 young people for culture. We discussed it and discussed it in the Commission and you said it was a beautiful initiative. In our opinion it is an unfair measure because, as I said, only four regions of Italy are used. I raised the problem in the Commission and do you know what I was told? That the amendment that the League has tabled is unconstitutional and unfair. Unconstitutional? We ask that, instead of young people from four regions of Italy, young people from all over Italy be given space, and you say that our amendment is unconstitutional? Your article is unconstitutional, because you always favor the usual to the detriment of everything else! [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group and the Senators Albertini and Rossi Maurizio.]] As for Articles 5 and 6, we are frankly a little concerned. You touch the Uffizi, in Florence, with 8 million euros for a work of 50 million. In this respect, we hope that there will be transparency at least in the companies that carry out the work and that they will not always be entrusted to the usual known ones. The hope is that it is not a fund for someone, but for Uffizi. [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group]] The Museum of the Shoah will be allocated 4 million euros. Here again, to continue the work of a museum that was to cost 15 million and now costs 40, 4 million are allocated: what are they for? The Mausoleum of Augustus is assigned 2 million euros, also thanks to an amendment appeared in the night, between one day and another: the contribution to the Mausoleum of Augustus arrives in enchantment! [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] All right. The MAXXI, of which it has been said, is given EUR 5 million, another contribution arrived thanks to an amendment. It's fine. It's for culture. The problem is that, as shown yesterday by the transmission "Le Hyene", President Melandri promises first that she will not receive any salary, while now comes the contribution to the president along with that of 5 million euros. It's okay. It's for culture, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the LNP-Aut and M5S Groups]] So they are satisfied - and I take the responsibility to say so, I will not have my colleagues tell them - Mayor Renzi, Mr Franceschini, Mayor Marino and Mrs Melandri! [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group and Senators Bignami and Fucksia]] Then I ask two questions, one to the center-left and the other to the center-right: but to the poor Pisapia and Fassino, who are of yours, you give nothing? Their problem is that they are in cities that may not be interesting and unfortunately for them they are in regions of Italy that are not considered. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]] The invitation that I make to my colleagues in the PdL is as follows: if all these contributions to the usual known are good for you, vote on this bill, but take responsibility for your territories for having voted on this decree! [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group.]] And then, where do we go to get the funds available to culture? The funds are being removed from the business-saving decree, the only one that has been voted unanimously by this House. If you remember, we have voted unanimously, with a very large applause from everyone, including the press. Well, where are we going to get this money? From there. And then from where? From excise duties on oils and alcohol. So the more you consume alcohol, the more money you have for culture. Next time we have an aperitif, let's remember that we're funding culture. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] I'll take a lot of my friends for an aperitif. Bring your friends, too, because it means that we are financing the museums of Italy. I am thinking of the various municipalities and their councillors who campaign against alcohol. Then we find a government and a majority that finance culture with the use of alcoholic substances. All right, ladies and gentlemen, go tell your councilmen! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami, Blund and Fucksia]] I may have been a little too intrusive, but we had expectations, both personally and as a League Group. We hoped that culture would emerge from the magna magna magna magna politica and be treated as it deserves. The culture written with the capital C. For us, culture is a serious matter. I'd like it and we'd like it to be the same for this Senate. Our vote will therefore be decidedly negative. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Blondo and Fucksia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u71	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour and confirm the substantial positive assessment of the Civic Choice Group on the cultural value decree that we are about to approve, both in its general system and, in particular, on the measures for the partial reorganisation and refinancing of the sector. Civic Choice considers the decree "Cultural Value" a first, significant political act compared to the guilty neglect of the past and recognizes to the Government of broad understanding not only the sensitivity, but also an assumption of political responsibility, certainly expected, at least from our political side, for nothing obvious and obvious, considering the context in which the majority operates. Senator Giannini has already expressed in general discussion the merit of our political assessment, even with detailed observations, even with some critical observations, to which I refer. We have highlighted the modern vision that inspires this decree: a vision respectful of the non-primary needs of the individual and the citizen, who is, and must remain, the first beneficiary of cultural heritage. It is the same vision that has generated in Europe the principle of cultural exception and on which will be founded, from this year, the reworking of the rules of exchange between the European Union and the rest of the world. In my explanation of vote, I would like to emphasise just one aspect. The issue of financial coverage of the cultural decree has been discussed and is being discussed. This is a fundamental aspect, not just in terms of quantity. The primary source of funding for this measure is to date an increase in taxes (charges on certain consumptions, such as alcohol and smoking) and the transfer of funds to businesses. We can do better if the political will to invest in culture can be combined with the political courage to find qualitatively acceptable resources, perhaps additional ones, perhaps not penalising those same citizens who today I hope will rejoice with us when we approve this measure. We expect, therefore, that the Government will be able to indicate with consistency and head-to-head other ways of supporting and financing all those measures intended to preserve, protect and enhance our cultural and artistic heritage. If we succeed, it will be a real turning point and a revolutionary and peaceful transition from a logic of culture as a cost to a logic of culture as a resource and a priority place of investment, that cultural exception that makes Italy and Europe a unique context. We think it's worth a try. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u74	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, I should like to add to the criticisms already made by Mr Petraglia and Mr Centinario about the working method followed in the examination of this decree, which unfortunately was published on the eve of the summer break and forced us to work quickly and always with the emergency bell ready to ring. My colleague, Mrs Petraglia, has made clear and precise the reason why we should not proceed in this way, so we hope that in the future we will finally abandon this method of work. It would be a great sign of awareness on the part of close parties in the mortal embrace of broad understandings. It is inevitable that a measure such as that which we are called upon to vote comes not only to fill a void but to denounce a delay. Paolo Fallai, on the "Corriere della sera" of 23 September, noted that it is a bit of an effect to witness a series of polemics as soon as a Minister decides to put his hand and put order in such a varied and articulated matter, especially finding ourselves - after many years - in an attempt to enclose themes and occurrences under the aegis of a single bill, and not to pulverize and disperse legislative action in a series of more circumscribed and fragmented interventions intended to unravel the overall vision. But unfortunately the homogeneity of the premises responds to a lack of uniformity of the content or, to say better, of different contents held together by the thread that binds them together, that is the common denominator of cultural goods, rather than by a wide-ranging design. And again this time we missed an opportunity. Even if the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law are quickly examined, we can easily see the concerns about the figure of the Director-General of the project and its substantial and regained autonomy, in particular because of the conflict that could arise at different levels with the Superintendence. It was our concern (in the context of a premium criterion of transparency and effectiveness, which are the principles that always inspire us) to point out with a specific amendment the need to rely on the contracting single station, also in order to avoid conditioning and camorristic infiltrations, as well as to submit to the competent parliamentary committees and to further examine the evaluation of the appointment of the Director-General of the project itself, as well as to evaluate its work in relation to the real and actual objectives gradually achieved. We were honestly hoping that, after what Mr Centinario called a school trip to Pompeii, this amendment would be accepted, but it was not, indeed, on the threshold, in the last few minutes of the sitting of the Commission, an amendment was tabled which even provided for the appointment of the Deputy Director-General. And here I quote Dante: the most "bel tacer" was never written on this amendment. There is no need to comment on that. The Grande Progetto Pompeii ideally welcomes a long series of measures and regulatory interventions that have followed since the 1970s, so much so that, returning to where the moves had taken place, one can only wonder why it has been expected so long to achieve it, after the collapses that have followed, without being able to oppose a state of degradation that has put the very protection of the site in the spotlight of public opinion and national and international press, that someone wanted to see as the real problem of Pompeii. We have also tried to extend the valorization of cultural heritage to the bell area in the broadest sense. In Article 2 we move on to the invention and digitisation of Italian cultural heritage, and it is a necessity, this, that must be evaluated within the great technological and digital transformation. A team of 500 selected young people will provide the task, and we wonder why not 5,000 young people instead of 500. The transparency of selection procedures should then be safeguarded and they should be framed in a more lasting way, using in the future all the skills acquired, without dispersing them as often happens in Italy. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] It would also be useful to use and ensure a strong national coverage in this project, and not let it end up, like many others, in the category of beautiful but unfinished works. If, in Article 3, the actual usability of cultural goods is both a prerequisite and a consequence of their protection, the promotion of reading and acting which we find in Article 4, together with the development of libraries and archives, is treated - I am sorry, Minister - with a short-sighted approach and presbytes at one time, where, in our opinion, a much more sharp, transversal and radical one would be necessary. We have certainly not made a mystery of the fact that there is a decided disproportion between the Grand Pompeii Project and the New Uffizi. Already Mr Centinario, with a gesture of great courage, has appointed the uncompromising in this regard. These are two poles of undoubted excellence worldwide. As for the National Museum of Italian Judaism and the Shoah, in article 5, in this key that takes a little misconceived and doubtful, we would almost think that the substantial funding received was more an oboleum paid by the Government to the city of Ferrara and to those from that city of Ferrara comes and sits among the banks of the PD. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] In Article 6, on the so-called centers of contemporary art production, the approach is emphatic and however farragic. The State Property Agency is even involved, without understanding the criteria by which young artists who should benefit from the intervention should be selected. However, we tried to extend the facilities to young artists who, in the decree as originally conceived, were ridiculous (not to say that they were a mockery), and we did so in order to bring these facilities in line with European standards. Equally emphatic and cumbersome it seems to us, through some amendments which have come to complete the picture, the way to tackle the node of tourism which, it seems superfluous to say, is of vital importance for our country. You announced that you will fill this gap with a decree specifically designed for the tourism sector. We hope that all these inputs and requests that we are giving you will be implemented during the drafting of this decree. Fortunately, the amendment providing for the establishment of a high-training school for the tourist professions has been withdrawn. Finally, we welcomed all the rules that wanted to reconfirm and stabilize the use of financing through tax credit, as well as extend it to the disciplines of music and, at the same time, ensure the simplification in the provision of funding, in particular of private individuals, and the underlying tax reductions. In this case, however, our common sense amendment aimed at ensuring that these donations were not for profit was not accepted. The other fundamental node was that of lyric-symphonic foundations. Alas, in this case too, there is a lack of merit criteria for future administrations and extraordinary Commissioners. Even with regard to staff and its relocation, something more could be done to ensure that the relocation took place on the territory and not to find a flood of people to be relocated, upset in their daily lives because they were located in distant territories. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that we have accepted an amendment on the anatomical interests that may be paid to banks, which will allow, in the case of recovery of sums which, when restructuring and renegotiating the debt, can be used as compensation. I would like to join my colleague Petraglia in saying that we too - and you know it well - as the 5 Star Movement will stand incessantly with our breath on our necks to verify that the norms contained in this decree-law are implemented. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] because the problem in Italy is that good measures are also made with effective rules, on paper because then they are forgotten in oblivion. As a Group, while appreciating the positive aspects of the decree-law under consideration, we are in a position of deep criticism (just think of the MAXXI, as my colleagues have already said), and therefore, in the overall assessment, starting from the assumption that we intend to remain firm to the values and principles that inspire us and the words that make us identify ourselves as Movement in a movement of people that places the values of transparency and merit at the top of its scale, for consistency we will abstain from issuing a judgment on this decree-law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A final consideration, which is an afflate of hope with which I would like to conclude our intervention: culture is the only resource we have not to pass with indifference through the days of our life. I invite you, Minister, to make your own and to hold this consideration dear. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u77	MARIN (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are going to vote on a measure that has had a time and a debate, both in the Commission and in this House, frank and transparent, therefore positive, but also (we do not hide it) a complex process, to use euphemism. First of all, we thank you for following the work step by step with a constructive attitude. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, not only for the form but also for the substance, for the way he conducted his work in the Commission, always showing willingness. We in the Il Popolo della Libertà Group believe that we have improved this measure and have worked in this direction. Frankly, when the decree-law was adopted at the beginning of August, a little triumphalistic tones were used, while she, with intellectual honesty, in her interventions and in her reply brought them back to more real, real and concrete levels, talking about safety. Similarly, in the first general debate on the measure in the Chamber, Senator Martini of the Democratic Party said it was a first step. I believe that there is a lot to be done: we must bring new ideas, think about a reorganization of the system. Today a first step has been taken and we of the People of Liberty want to make a contribution in indicating the way forward. However - I repeat - it was a first step: therefore, less triumphalistic tones, more real and concrete tones. As you well know, Minister, our main concerns began by reading the economic and financial cover of the decree-law. It is good to devote resources to culture (this is out of the question): someone tries to head the culture, but it is transversal and belongs to all of us, and therefore to the whole country. It's just that the cheap covers have immediately left us perplexed, to continue to use soft and simple words. First of all, I am referring to the increase in taxes and excise duties and, in particular, the increase in tax rates and excise duties on lubricating oils, smoking and alcohol. To go straight to the concrete and highlight something specific, I stress that the increase in excise duties on alcohol involves beer, alcohol and some intermediate products. We are talking, for example, about the white wine of Lazio, Veneto, Trentino, Friuli, Tuscany, Marsala wine, the non-white wine of Piedmont, that is, we are talking about wine producers. Not later than last week, we voted in this House for budgetary adjustment, and a Senator of the People's Freedom Group recalled that the increase in excise duties reduces consumption, because of course it affects the pockets of consumers and citizens, and at the same time it also affects producers, who see themselves reduced the sales of their products. This is a mechanism that we do not like very much, of which you, Minister, obviously had to use, but which - I repeat - we do not like very much. Even less we like that the 75 million euros allocated to lyrical-symphonic foundations (then we will analyse the issue) are found from the funds of the decree saves companies or destined to local authorities. You certainly have no responsibility for the matter (among other things, it is a rotating mechanism). Mr Bray, since we do not like this levy (as has been pointed out by several groups, not later than a few months ago it was voted unanimously), we ask you to be vigilant. The €75 million must go back to that fund, because there are companies waiting for that money. It is not your responsibility, because these are previous issues, but let me say that they are debts that the State owes to companies: companies, which, however, fail to pay taxes and employees, and therefore need those funds. In addition, they are destined for something - we shall shortly analyse it - which has not been handled very well, as you also mentioned yesterday. So, we don't like the covers so much, but instead we like that culture has been removed from the linear cuts used to pay for other measures. Well, that is a merit that we stress, but the increase in taxes, the use of saving businesses and local authorities are mechanisms that - I repeat - we do not like. However, we like to point out another way, because when the comparison is frank and constructive, we also propose solutions. I would like to remind you that the Colosseum of Rome has been restored with the contribution of private individuals: the minister was Sandro Bondi. I think it is a worthy act and it represents a path to follow. We are in a time of difficulty, and so we must also follow this direction, that is, the involvement of the private sector. We believe, then, that the de-taxation of liberal disbursements must have a meaning. A small step forward has been taken here (which we will talk about later); we believe that we can follow this path in order to raise funds for our culture, which - I repeat - belongs to everyone. Having said that, I would like to focus on all the articles of the three Heads making up the measure under consideration. We said: good for Pompeii; we act and try to give a turn, even with a deepening that comes from our Group. However, I would like to ask a question about this. The report that has been presented to us rightly states that the European funds allocated to the Grand Pompeii Project are likely to be frustrated. We would have liked to hear a word in this respect: if there are such difficulties and if mistakes have been made, we must know them so as not to repeat them. I would also like to stress an amendment which my Group strongly supports against mafia infiltrations: the history of these days unfortunately teaches us that there is still such a danger and that we therefore need to go in this direction. As regards Article 2, which deals with measures on young people, I would stress that there are 500 young people. I would like to stress one point that I have given a lot of thought to: EUR 2.5 million is earmarked for this article and therefore for our young people. Among other things, it is good that we talk about traineeships, because we have to create jobs and skills, without creating illusions of recruitment: we do not want to deceive 500 young people and find them then to protest because they did not have what they believed was theirs. That said, it is EUR 2.5 million. If there's something that the increase in excise duties could do well for, it's finding work for our kids. The situation is dramatic all over the country, Minister. So, if you want to bring the 500 assumptions within the convergence objective, and then they are assigned to four Regions, which are Puglia, Calabria, Campania and Sicily, we say: "well for these 500 young people of these Regions"; but we have presented an agenda that thinks of the whole country. By the way, we're talking about about about 400 euros a young person, so it's really a little bit. I believe that in this case there could have been an increase in resources, and in this respect we invite you to think in order to create - I repeat - jobs, skills, and not illusions. Article 3, which states that the receipts obtained from the sale of tickets remain within the cultural heritage, does not pass through the Ministry of Economy. This must of course serve the objective of opening up museums and archaeological sites even in the evening, that is to widen the offer that we are able to make. I remember that culture is also the driving force behind tourism and must be an integral part of our economy. The speeches on libraries and reading are also positive: they are first steps, Minister, as you yourself have reminded us, but they are significant and we welcome them. I now come to talk about article 5, which concerns precise destinations such as the Museum of Italian Judaism and the Ferrara Shoah and the project Nuovi Uffizi in Florence. We're not interested in cheap polemics. Let's remember that to the Uffizi, which are the largest Italian museum center, for many years and not a few, even the Berlusconi government had thought of allocating resources. However, 50 million euros are still missing (about 50 million and 600,000 euros that, with the 8 million data, are down), as Ferrara still lacks about 31 million euros. It is clear that the way has been chosen to devote resources to work on the road: we would like some of these resources to work where we begin and end up. Before announcing the Group's vote, I would like to discuss something that has caused so much debate. I am referring to lyrical-symphonic foundations and EUR 75 million. Yesterday Senator Sandro Bondi spoke in this House and you gave him an answer. I do not think you made any different comments than Senator Bondi asked: Senator Bondi, and all of us, ask that we do not go in the direction of chronic assistantism. We use a little crude terms, which are not mine, at this time: we talk about asphalting. Those who have not checked what has happened in foundations and cities that are in the worst conditions should be asphalted, and they are - correct me if I am wrong - Palermo, Naples and Florence. I'm talking about EUR 25 million. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] We need to do - as you said - an industrial plan, but it cannot be yet another pants to pay. We need to know that chronic welfare in this country is no longer spoken of. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Our history deserves that the Government and Parliament work in a certain way: new ideas, different paths, no to assistance, assistance and autonomy. In doing so, I declare the Group of the People of Freedom to vote in favour. [[Applause from the PdL Group and the Senators Marcucci and Puglisi. Congratulations).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u80	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, Minister, cultural value: the Government has chosen to present this decree in this way. We all sighed a little bit of relief. We thought that finally Italy in some way "was awake," appreciating very much the fact that this is among the first major measures of the current Government. Addressing the issue of culture is urgent, very urgent in Italy, and the Minister has urgently put himself to work to bring this measure to the attention of Parliament. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this is the Italy of urgency, and precisely to deal with it, the Letta Government was born, supported by this coalition. A government that has the problem of the IMU, VAT, the problem of exodus and unemployment, with numbers that still some time ago would seem unimaginable for our country. But the Democratic Party wanted to propose forcefully and add that, among the first actions of government, among the real priorities for the real revival of the country and for the flight - I want to call it this - of Italy, culture, school, university and research must have a strong role. We have now dealt with this decree-law and, in a few days, the school provision will be under review. Our party has always shared these priorities, present in our campaigns and which we have always demanded. These are fundamental demands, which we consider to be fundamental for the development of the country. In fact, this is what we promised the Italians: the priorities we had put in place at the very moment when we supported this Government. The government has responded to the appeal with punctuality and courage, because at this moment it takes courage to intervene and choose to do so on culture. We have followed the debate in this House these days and we have actually spoken of courage, because this is what is needed: measures that are thought to be able to give life to what other governments have neglected for too long. We have to realize that. I don't think there's anyone who can argue with that. Important resources have been found, even if not yet sufficient, but nevertheless able to allow us to give a blow to these policies in our country, to give a strong sign of discontinuity and, above all, a strong message - which seems important to me because it is actually a cultural fact - to the Italian citizens and citizens, aimed at letting us understand that culture is important for us, and it must also be important for them. It is not something ornamental: it is something fundamental, and this concept must enter the heads of the Italians. It was not easy, dear Minister, to make a decree that was about culture. We did not know where to start; from urgency, first of all, but, above all, from emergencies, which were so many, but there were also many expectations. First of all, something very difficult had to be set up: this decree had to be set culturally. Remember, ladies and gentlemen: the Minister had already explained this to us in his report at the beginning of his mandate and he had committed himself to bringing us measures that would bring Italy back to the core of the most advanced countries at European level. Yes, it's about bringing us back, because the investment in culture had shamefully become involved in these years. We agreed with that then and we now recognise that philosophy, Minister, in the approach underlying the decree that we are going to vote on today. I would add that we share it with conviction and that we will play our role as a stimulus and collaboration in future government actions in this area. We have important appointments, even shortly, with the law of stability. We will do so as a Democratic Party, because we believe that at the basis of this measure there is a right and winning idea for Italy, namely that guaranteeing and caring for cultural assets and activities must be something structural and fundamental in our civil community. We cannot, therefore, understand culture policy as a sectoral policy, but as a sort of essential substratum on which to lay the foundations of advanced democracy, as we believe it to be ours. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a difficult time; we have, therefore, had to choose a series of interventions in the magnum sea of the abandonment of Italian culture and, in particular, cultural heritage, Pompeii, in the first place: it is the usual example we make, but it is very clear. With regard to lyrical-symphonic foundations, I have followed the debate these days, what has happened in this House and the considerations that are being made, sometimes not intellectually honest. I believe that all of us can only agree that action is needed. There is certainly a dramatic situation within some of these foundations, but it will not be us and we can never be the ones who take responsibility for shutting them down. It is clear, therefore, that it is a compulsory intervention, which will certainly need much more: control, transparency and a new rigour that must be absolutely provided for and, above all, practiced. Therefore, the 75 million that we are talking about, that in the decree are destined to rescue foundations in crisis, are necessary, because we have the duty to safeguard this heritage, which is among the most recognized and recognizable within the artistic heritage of our country. And here, I remember it (and it applies to all the interventions contained in the decree), we have a responsibility. That is what the Minister said, and I have heard it from you colleagues - and I am pleased - also from the Commission: we have a duty not only to Italy, our country, but also to the rest of the world. We are Italy, there is nothing to do. Therefore, we have a great responsibility in the matter of culture. I recall that in this very Chamber Senator Fattorini spoke of "fame of Italy," of "fame of Italian culture" that exists in the rest of the world. This has emerged in our debate, even in the debate in the Commission, I can assure you that you have already said so and it is not my duty to repeat it now. I would like to thank President Marcucci, our Parent Company, Senator Puglisi, the other colleagues, such as the PdL Group Leader in the Commission, Senator Liuzzi, who worked with great passion, thanks to whom we were able to do a serious job, in conjunction with the Undersecretary Borletti Dell'Acqua who followed our work and with Minister Bray who showed great openness with regard to the amendments. I would remind my colleagues who are not part of the Commission that many of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur as amendments from the Commission, and also many of the rapporteur himself, have been formulated on the basis of proposals also coming from oppositions. I think this is a very interesting fact, because it shows that on the subject of cultural heritage we have found a very strong sharing. I believe that a country cannot evolve, cannot grow, has no prospect (I would say so) if its governments do not set up a series of policies aimed at the development of the person, employing the necessary and hopefully huge resources. And this is taught by the history of our civilizations; we can verify it by analyzing also the figures and policies of the most evolved countries where economic growth goes hand in hand with investments in environmental and cultural heritage and activities related to the evolution of knowledge in all its variations. And then, here is that culture and, therefore, a decree on culture, become synonymous with development and growth. We must include this measure - and I am strongly convinced of this - among the decrees for growth. This is a decree for growth, it is a decree for young people, even if few are directly engaged (the famous "500 young people"), but we know that the resources will be allocated to the areas belonging to Objective 1, and it is clear that they must be engaged for those Regions: we cannot think of assigning them, for example, to Lombardy. Of course, we need to identify many other resources for young people, but these must be engaged in those areas. We cannot pretend not to know: it is only those regions where those funds can be allocated. It is, therefore, a decree for growth, a decree for young people, a decree for work, however a decree on welfare. That's what I think. Culture policies are necessarily to be framed within the framework of the welfare of a state; they become something indispensable for being well, something you need to breathe, and until in our schools, within our head, there will be this idea, the need for culture, obviously we will not succeed, we will not be able to sufficiently valorize our heritage, neither as politicians nor as people, especially we who are Italians, who are born here. How many times our children, or those who spend many and long periods abroad tell us of the sense of emptiness they feel when they think about our monuments, our historical centers, the balance of our cultural sites, the squares and palaces of Italy, both small and large cities. Italy's destiny, therefore, is played on this very front, above all on the knowledge and training of its citizens. This is an ancient challenge that interests us, and that interests us, at this moment, that we are the senators of the 17th legislature, of this somewhat strange legislature, but we are interested. Perhaps we can do something about culture in Italy, and it seems to me that this is very important. With regard to the issues directly dealt with by my fellow Members, of course there would be a number of issues that I would like to highlight, but we did talk about them when we examined the amendments. I do not know whether this has already been said, I would just like to comment on the issue of raising the funds for the FUS, which is of course a relative effort, but which we appreciate. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Minister, we are convinced that the development and maintenance of our culture is an inestimable wealth, the only good capable of making people freer, making the country better. For these reasons, I declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of this decree. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u82	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u83	BONDI (PdL). Minister, I would also like to reiterate here the esteem and consideration I have for your person and for your work. The last thing I could do would be to be fierce against his person, who does not deserve it, unlike his party friends, the left, the PD, who have vexed themselves against me in the past in a wild way and without any truth. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] I thought Italy needed courageous reforms, to reduce state spending and, above all, to lower taxes. I was wrong: Italy is a country that can happily continue to spend and spread, that can still cheerfully continue to throw away the money of the State without asking in exchange for rigour and responsibility. We are not, as can be seen from the progress of the work on this decree, a country in crisis: we are Country of Bengodi. In fact, we are not a serious country: we are a happy and forgetful country. I am not happy and I am not forgetful, so I will not be able to vote in favour of this decree. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u84	I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. The C2 coordination proposal has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 91 of 8 August 2013, with urgent provisions for the protection, enhancement and revival of cultural and tourism goods and activities, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorized to carry out any further changes of formal coordination that may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u87	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to thank all the members of the 7th Commission, who have actively worked together to improve this measure. All the groups have taken initiatives, as has rightly been pointed out. I would like to thank the Minister and also the 5th Commission and its President, who helped us to increase the funds available to the Government on this measure. I would also like to thank the whole House and apologise to colleagues in the House, to whom we are sending this measure, alas, with a very short time left. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u90	Mr BRAY, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. Illustrated President, illustrious senators, I am convinced that, by approving and improving the decree of value for culture, this Assembly has given an important signal to the country and its citizens and a signal of attention to the requests that come to us to have more and more attention to culture. 11:49 a.m. (Following BRAY, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism) It is a first measure, but it is a measure that believes in culture as a value, as a glue of a society, of a country that wants to be united and believe united in its future. Culture as a duty towards an extraordinary artistic and landscape heritage, which we must enhance and protect, as indicated in our Constitutional Charter. The scarcity of resources is certainly one of the most urgent problems we have to face, but it also gives us an opportunity to rethink the management of the forms of use of public money. They are chosen, those approved, whose application will be planned and monitored carefully and rigorously. I would like to thank all the members of the 5th Commission and President Azzolini for their sensitivity. The Ministry's tasks will have to be more and more oriented not to administrative activities, but on the contrary to make its operating procedures more agile, guaranteeing ever more efficient dynamics of networks of relations with the structures present on the territory, promoting constructive dialogue with the local authorities. Particular attention will then have to be paid, as many of the speeches have pointed out, to intellectual employment, to the professions of cultural goods, to the many forms of cultural development by the new generations, to the necessary introduction into the system of forms of innovation and dialogue with the world of research. But from today our care will be to put tourism at the center of our commitments. The first signs of recovery this summer give us hope: yesterday's Unioncamere data, positive data, are a positive balance after many years. This is due to the commitment, first of all, of all the operators of the system, who despite the crisis, despite the difficulties, have been able to make system and give our country an important contribution to growth. Now we need to take advantage of these positive data to provide for all those measures that help and facilitate their work. The Senate has given continuous signals of attention to the problems of culture and cultural heritage, and I want to thank all the Groups for their sensitivity. The Government has strongly shared some important agendas and will undertake to identify solutions to respond to the requests that have been made. But my thanks will go once again to President Marcucci, the members and all the staff of the 7th Commission for the valuable work they have done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u91	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1041, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft law of initiative of the MPs Mogherini Federica and others; Marazziti and others and the draft law of government initiative, and 898. The working rapporteur, Senator Corsini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u92	Madam President, first of all, I would like to warn you that I am replacing Senator Amoruso, and I will therefore read the text of the report that my colleague had prepared, not without saying that I fully support it. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft laws before this House concern the authorisation of ratification of the International Treaty on the Trade in Conventional Arms. The Senate Act No 1041 contains the text approved, by unanimous vote, by the Chamber of Deputies on 12 September, while the Senate Act No 898, which the Foreign Affairs Committee intended to absorb in the first, is a bill of parliamentary initiative of substance practically identical to the previous one, and which has as its first signatory Senator Silvana Amati. The arms trade treaty was adopted on 2 April by the United Nations General Assembly, with the approval of 154 countries... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Corsini, I'm gonna interrupt you just to ask who's standing in the hemicycle and who's sitting on my right hand to please give everyone a better listen. CORSINI, f.f. Rapporteur... therefore more than three quarters of the member countries, with the vote against only three countries (which, significantly, are Iran, Syria and North Korea), and with 23 abstentions, including Russia, China, India, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. The Treaty, opened for signature on 3 June 2013 in New York, has so far collected 85 subscriptions, including that of Italy: it will enter into force ninety days after ratification by at least fifty States. To date, only four states have ratified it: Iceland, Guyana, Nigeria and Antigua-Barbuda. The negotiation process for the definition of the Treaty has been particularly laborious and has its roots in the 1990s. New impetus to the negotiation process has been given since 2008 by the advent of the new US administration, just as a central role has been played by the large coalition, consisting of states of Latin America, Africa and many European countries (starting from Italy itself), which has gradually come gathering around the shared objective of regulating on an international scale the trade in conventional weapons. Although the Treaty is in some respects the result of a difficult compromise, it is undoubtedly an important instrument designed with the aim of overcoming that uncertainty or sometimes a lack of regulation in this area, establishing among the States Parties principles of responsibility, transparency, control and cooperation. The aim of the Treaty is to establish common, legally binding international standards aimed at regulating international trade in conventional weapons; at the same time preventing illegal trade, and in particular improper destinations, such as the supply of arms to criminal groups or terrorists by corrupt or conniving state agents. To the inspiration and conceptual reference of the Treaty, the text recalls the pillars on which the whole system of the United Nations is founded: peace, security, development and human rights; pillars which are closely interlinked and which are strengthened according to a criterion of reciprocity, aiming to reduce human suffering. The scope of the Treaty is defined in Article 2, which specifies the eight categories of arms to which the provisions of the document refer: tanks, armored fighting equipment, large-caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles and missile launchers, as well as light and small-caliber weapons. States must also establish a national control system to regulate the export of weapons, with a checklist on the import, export and transfer of conventional weapons. The Treaty also establishes a secretariat to monitor the implementation of the new rules. Of particular significance is Article 6, which provides for the prohibition of arms transfers contrary to the obligations imposed by any security Council measures, such as embarrassments. No State may also authorise transfers of arms contrary to international agreements of which it is a party. No transfer of conventional weapons can be authorised if the State is aware of the likelihood that such weapons will be used for genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity. Article 7 deepens and clarifies the terms in which the competent national authorities will have to regulate the trade and transfer of conventional weapons, assessing the potential impact of this activity on the maintenance or endangering of peace and security, on possible violations that may occur in relation to human rights, international humanitarian law or international protocols on terrorism or transnational organised crime. In this context, a particularly relevant regulatory provision is that contained in paragraph 4, according to which States Parties will have to assess whether conventional weapons, ammunition, parts or components which are the subject of trade or transfer can be used to commit or facilitate serious acts of gender-based violence or serious acts of violence against women and children. Authorisations, if granted, must in any case be adequately detailed and issued before the transfer of the material covered by the transaction takes place. Where, at a later stage, new and relevant information is submitted, the State Party shall review the authorisation, including in consultation with the importing country. A further important forecast is that contained in Article 11, according to which each State undertakes to prevent arms from reaching, through triangulation operations, subjects other than those found to be buyers. To this end, there are national control systems with an information exchange system between the countries concerned. In order to avoid triangulation actions, States also undertake to regulate the transit, transhipment and brokerage activities taking place on their territory or under their jurisdiction. Finally, transparency measures are important. Article 12 provides that each State Party shall maintain national registers of authorisations granted and exports carried out, with specific information on the quantity, types of arms transferred, the importing, transit and so on. The spirit of the Treaty is fully consistent with the international action guidelines which Italy pursues in the field of the protection and promotion of human rights, disarmament, development cooperation and the fight against transnational networks of organised crime and terrorism. Italy, among other things, has already signed and ratified the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime, and in particular its Protocol against the illicit production and trafficking of firearms, which presents several points of contact with the Treaty under discussion. Moreover, the Italian legislation on the control of weapons materials (Law No 185 of 1990) is still today one of the most advanced and stringent disciplines on a global scale. Our country, also thanks to subsequent Community legislation, is therefore already in a position to implement fully the provisions of the Treaty, without the need for further internal intervention. The entry into force of this Treaty can therefore represent another significant advance in the level of protection in the field of arms, strengthening that system of international rules whose importance, if ever needed, is confirmed every day by the many crises with which the international community is confronted. In conclusion, also because of the important ethical-political significance of this measure, I hope that the ratification process of the Treaty will be completed quickly, which would allow Italy to be among the top fifty countries which, through their ratification, will be able to contribute to its effective entry into force. Having said that, I would like the House to approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u93	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Calderoli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u94	Madam President, I am speaking not so much about the substance of the measure as about making an appeal and making an assessment to this House. We are dealing today with this ratification to proceed with the adoption of the relevant bill in view of the United Nations General Assembly, where the President of the Council is currently present. I would therefore urge all Members to take action to allow approval before the end of the afternoon sitting, so that we can reach the approval of ratification by giving a mandate to the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from Senators Corsini and Torrisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u95	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u96	Madam President, as the rapporteur has pointed out, with today's ratification of the International Arms Trade Treaty, Italy is among the first States to conclude the accession process after the vote of the UN General Assembly on 2 April. I would also remind you that on that occasion a broad cross-cutting coalition of countries was expressed, including Italy, with only three votes against - Iran, Syria and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea - and twenty-three abstentions. Madam President, calling countries against the principles and content of the Treaty offers us all the opportunity to understand the extraordinary topicality and strength of the document to our attention. The Treaty, although in some areas the result of a difficult compromise, aims to make the arms trade more restrictive, with two specific objectives: to raise international standards for better regulation of the international arms trade and to prevent and eliminate illegal trade in this area of activity. At the same time, however, we cannot forget the fact that this document finds its origin in an extraordinary mobilization of international civil society, starting from the campaign launched in 2003 by Amnesty International and some other organisations. A movement followed by the opening of close diplomatic negotiations between the international political community, until the vote, as said, of the United Nations General Assembly. It has been years of hard-working diplomatic contacts and mediation in which Italy has been one of the main actors in supporting the achievement of an agreement between the parties. It has been a very difficult job, not only because of the clear opposition of the three countries mentioned above, but also because of the role played by some Member States of the United Nations, which have long distinguished themselves in defending their interests in the field of arms trade. On the contrary, Italy has moved with determination along the line that has always distinguished our political choices on the issues of commitment to peace and stability, the protection of human rights, disarmament, cooperation and respect for the norms of international humanitarian law. In fact, the contents of the Treaty fully recall the international policy guidelines supported by our country in the framework of development cooperation and the fight against organised crime and terrorism and in the prevention of conflicts. Some points of the document give credit to the choices and initiatives that have always distinguished our country in the international scenario. In particular, it is made indisputable that the obvious economic reasons underlying the arms trade must be subordinate to the political reasons expressed by the international order, with a view to reducing and mitigating conflicts for the greater protection of human rights. It is, to the point of view, the same principle laid down in Law No 185 of 1990, which placed our country among the most advanced in this matter, to the point that our regulatory system is already ready to implement the Treaty forecasts without any further intervention. I would also point out that the principles contained in the document recognise the fact that conflict areas are territories in which human rights suffer the most serious violations; hence the assumption that conflict prevention is only possible through effective action to combat illicit trafficking in arms. I would remind all of us that such a criterion is the basis of all our participation in international peace missions, where the military dimension, when necessary, is closely interwoven with the components of cooperation and the instruments of stabilisation of civil coexistence. Our country, it is useful to recall it from time to time, in the theatres of crisis has always been recognized as one of the greatest and most tenacious protagonists of any action aimed at restoring a peaceful coexistence between the parties in conflict. Finally, Madam President, I would like to conclude by reminding you, but not least, that the Treaty, in defining precise principles for the protection of women and children, the most vulnerable objectives in the theatres of war, and the recognition of support for rehabilitation and the economic and social inclusion of victims of armed conflicts, incorporates the position of our country repeatedly reaffirmed and confirmed on these issues. A unanimous vote on the ratification by the Senate would therefore be extremely significant, taking into account, inter alia, what has already happened in the Chamber of Deputies at the last sitting of the 12th. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u97	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u98	Madam President, as the previous senators have already said, we are voting today on the ratification of the International Arms Trade Treaty, which the United Nations General Assembly approved in April 2013. It is the authorization of an important ratification, which the House has already approved and which stems from the great push implemented in these months by the Integroup . Parlamentari per la pace, also thanks to the work that for years they carry out on the territory the associations and the pacifist movements. The arms trade treaty has a history with roots in international civil society, which since 2003 has met within the Coalition Control Arms (of which in Italy the Italian network for disarmament is partner), which over the past ten years has promoted numerous initiatives to raise awareness of political actors but above all the general public. More than a million people supported the campaign also through an instrument used for the first time, that of photopetition, which was delivered to the UN in 2006. The path to the Treaty is based on the awareness that the arms trade is not just any trade, such as that of fabrics or cell phones. Yet, like clothes or bicycles, weapons are bought and sold, moved from one country to another. It is astonishing that the MP3 trade or even the coffee trade is now subject to greater international controls than the arms trade is. It is precisely on this paradox, therefore, that the Treaty wants to intervene. The Treaty, which is also perfectable because it does not concern ammunition, arms components, as well as firearms that do not have an exclusive military use, will limit illicit arms trafficking and supplies to countries in war and which violate human rights. Weapons are a commodity that brings war and death, so it is particularly important to know who they will be sold to and for what purpose they will be used. It is no coincidence that the United Nations is imposing an embargo on the sale of arms to certain countries. Italy, paradoxically, has one of the most advanced legislative structures on these issues. In July 1990, the Italian Parliament passed Law No 185, which provided that Italy and Italian companies could not export arms to conflicting countries or nations where human rights are violated or to countries subject to UN embargo. The law provides that any arms export must be authorized by the Government and subject to controls. It also provides for the need to indicate both the recipient and the certificate of end-use of the weapon, in order to prevent the recipient from triangulating arms to third countries subject to embargo. It is thanks to this law that the ABI has taken the trouble to draft each year the list of credit institutions that finance arms exports with the related amounts financed and so it has begun to talk about armed banks, to the point that some credit institutions, exposed to the boycott of citizens, have decided to abandon this type of financing. Obviously, this law has been put under attack several times and attempts at change have been numerous. In 2002-2003, in particular, there was an attempt to lighten the verification tools, but also thanks to the strong mobilization outside the parliamentary classrooms by citizens, associations and the pacifist world, the changes made were still limited. If this is the framework, then we must also be clear about what our objectives should be. Even within the boundaries of Law No 185, in fact, Italy has sold weapons in the past to countries in war, often in conflict with each other. We sold weapons to Libya as well as Syria, through Yemen, Lebanon and Bahrain, which were then, in many of these cases, used against unarmed civilians. Between April and June 2011, we sold arms to Belarus, just a short time before the European Union imposed an arms embargo on Belarus on 20 June for the very serious violations of human rights and for the repression carried out by President Lukashenko. More than 1,000 people are killed every day by firearms. These are really dramatic figures. That is why we ask that, once the Treaty has been ratified, Italy should set a great example and that the Government should commit itself to promoting similar ratifications in the European Union and in the NATO countries, but also undertake to apply the Treaty itself, fully implementing Law No 185 of 1990, using it as an international model. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u99	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u100	Madam President, we are preparing for the adoption of the draft law authorising the ratification of a treaty on the arms trade, which, as Senator Calderoli recalled, should already take place this morning. Therefore, by sharing the call for its approval in a short time, I would just point out a few facts. This is an important agreement, which the 3rd Commission has discussed extensively, where all the issues related to the most sensitive aspects of this measure have been dealt with. We believe that there should be no deregulation of the arms trade and, therefore, this agreement is welcome, because it nevertheless regulates the obligations of States in controlling this particular type of trade, which is a delicate trade. The fundamental objective is to eliminate, or at least significantly contain, those that - alas - are illicit arms trafficking (still very widespread today, especially in certain areas of the world), which are then often used against the civilian population, against helpless people who have nothing to do with the war conflicts that can be ongoing in those areas. Our country, with Law No 185 of 1990, certainly gave an example, many years ago, although with flaws in its approval, to other realities and to other countries of the European Union and the Western world about the address that was to be taken. We see that this has been included in the text of the Treaty in our examination and, therefore, we believe that we can share its content, and we hope that the draft law will be adopted unanimously. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can welcome today, because we are about to vote in favour of the ratification and implementation of the arms trade treaty in the near future. This satisfaction is also born because it represents a milestone, in terms of arguments, in the path aimed at limiting the spread of arms and is, in itself, a first internationally binding instrument that regulates the sale of conventional weapons and automatically forbids the contracting States to trade them with countries affected by embargoes or involved in international crimes and against humanity. For the first time, therefore, the prevention and fight against the illegal trade in arms is strengthened, including the aspect of so-called improper destinations, i.e. those involving the supply of arms to criminal or terrorist groups by deviant or collusive government representatives. Monitoring the arms trade is a long-standing need and is a process that starts from afar: we remember that already in 2001 the United Nations adopted an action plan for the control of illicit arms trade and that in 2010, in Kinshasa, a Central African Convention for the control of arms was signed, albeit defined, with a euphemism, small and light (but still weapons). During this period, many other initiatives have taken place and international diplomacy has cleverly woven into the subject difficult relations with all the countries of the UN, but this time the difference has been confirmed by the commitment of international civil society, with the awareness campaign launched in 2003 at world level, and mainly by Amnesty International, Oxfam and Control Arms. It is no coincidence that this role has been recognised by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, who, in his speech on the adoption of the Convention of 2 April 2013 in New York, wished to congratulate the fundamental role played by the members of the various civil associations. With the Treaty, the trade in conventional weapons makes a qualitative leap through the creation of high international standards, common to all acceding countries, on imports, exports and transfers. Among others, these standards provide that in the final destination of these weapons the commercial triangulation of shipment is finally also considered. I could continue in a long list of what have been the fairly widespread uses of illegal, illegal and collusive trade - as I came to define earlier - of weapons, which have supported several wars explicitly and implicitly. But I cannot fail, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, to fulfil a duty, of conscience that characterizes each of us in order to avoid the slippery plan that in believing that we strongly accept a treaty that provides for the limitation of arms, understood in their illegality and diffusion, it seems that almost, for a sort of heterogeneous of the ends, we accept the language of war and weapons, that is, an international language in which the high criteria of diplomacy and harmony at international level are not in force, but only the language of the prevalence of the strongest over the weakest. I have great fear, Madam President, that at this moment this aspect may be underestimated, may pass in the alternative: it seems that by accepting and voting on the Treaty we have cleared our conscience at international level and that our task at the time when the vote begins and ends there. Allow me, therefore, to say that this impiety which comes from a very lived interiority and which has been repeatedly recalled in the various interventions. I say this with great humility, with sobriety and without theme that can be interpreted as an instrumental meaning: Pope Francis has repeatedly reminded us, once again, that the only language, the only word that gives us the chance to talk at world level is that of peace. What does all this mean? That we must be characterized by a political realism of international diplomacy, where weapons sometimes serve to pacify, to create a situation of non-belligerence, and we know how many times our troops at international level do not carry out an action of war but of peace and peace. I would like to conclude, if I may, by recalling what I think is an extremely important passage and that, once again, is suggested to us and indicated by those who look very far away: those whom we call poets. At this moment, Madam President, I would like to give your attention to my fellow senators and to the Deputy Minister's question: I do not know what the solution might be, but I would take as a starting point what Salvatore Quasimodo reminded us, as he said in his poem entitled "Anno Domini MCMXLVII": And now that you have hidden the cannons among the magnolias, leave us one day without arms on the grass to the sound of the moving water, fresh cane leaves in the hair while we embrace the woman who loves us. Don't suddenly sound forward at night curfew time. One day, one day for us, O masters of the earth, before he reels again the air and iron and a splinter burns us in full forehead. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u103	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u104	Madam President, by accepting the invitation of Senator Calderoli and my Group to the need for this treaty to be approved as quickly as possible by the Senate, I ask that I be able to give my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u105	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u106	GRANAIOLA (PD). I would just like to make two very important points here. Illegal or poorly regulated trade in conventional weapons costs a frightening number of lives. According to the European Union, more than 740,000 men, women and children die every year because of armed violence, so the rapid entry into force of this Treaty is of the utmost importance. Although this is a good treaty, thanks also to Italy's commitment, I believe it can be improved with regard to the aspects of arms trade with private groups and trade in arms components and ammunition. In this direction we must commit ourselves, if we really want to contribute to peace, security and international stability and reduce the human suffering in the world, which characterizes mainly, the memory, women and children.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u107	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u108	Madam President, as President Calderoli mentioned earlier, in a few hours' time the President-in-Office of the Council will speak at the Glass Palace in the context of the so-called ministerial session of the United Nations General Assembly, which perhaps represents the highest moment of international policy during the year: it would be nice if he could announce the final vote on ratification of this important treaty by our country. Therefore, we are committed to the final vote before the end of the afternoon sitting. The General Assembly of the United Nations is under way and so, at this moment, our thoughts are in New York. In front of the Glass Palace, on the other side of New York's First Avenue, there is a small monument to peace, on which is carved - obviously in English - the famous biblical verse of Isaiah, drawing with extraordinarily poetic words, the great concrete utopia of peace: And their swords shall be in plowshares, and their spears in sickles; and a people shall not lift up their sword against another people, neither shall they exercise themselves in the art of war. Then, reading the whole chapter, two other important concepts emerge: the first is that this will happen at the end of the days, and then an element of realism is introduced alongside the great utopia of peace; the second is that this will happen when all peoples gather and recognize a judge over them who will judge disputes between peoples. Now, all human history is crossed by doubt that this can only happen beyond history or can, at least in relative terms, be anticipated within the historical story of humanity. Well, the United Nations is born on the basis of this second idea, namely that - while remaining, for those who believe, that perfect peace will be achieved only beyond history - in history it is possible to build concrete elements of pacification, recognizing that there is not only the anarchy of national sovereignty, which is composed through the realistic analysis of the relationships of force; alongside this dimension, which has its undeniable weight, there must be another dimension, which is - precisely - that of international law and politics. The United Nations is born, I repeat, on the basis of this assumption. Yesterday, President Obama, in a great speech - as only he knows how to do - recalled that the leaders who gave birth to the United Nations were not naive people, they did not think that such an institution could eliminate all wars at the root, but, in the wake of the millions of deaths and continents in ruins and with the development of nuclear weapons that could annihilate the planet, they understood that humanity could not survive along that direction of march. So they gave us the establishment of the United Nations, in the belief that it would enable us to resolve conflicts, strengthen the rules of conduct of the Nations and build areas of cooperation that would be strengthened over time. That is the strong idea of the United Nations, and this Treaty is one of the best expressions of this, which is a concrete utopia, of the attempt to translate a great utopia into reality, such as peace. We live in a world of imperfect choices, as the American President said yesterday. And we think that with this Treaty, which has been a very important step in the life of the United Nations, of course, we have not reached the point of turning swords into plowshares or spears into scythes, but probably (I would say certainly), also thanks to it and to the imperfect but extraordinarily valuable work of the United Nations, we will be able to live in a less imperfect world. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u109	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u110	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u111	Madam President, I shall not go into the remarks made by my fellow Members, all of which are valuable and fruitful, and this is because I believe that there is a choral adherence to the reasons underlying this measure and an awareness of the need to speed up the timetable for its approval. I simply want to thank my colleagues in the Commission and those of the other Commissions who have issued opinions and have thus contributed to the definition of this passage.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u112	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u113	Madam President, I just want to thank you, in order to save time and accept the demands that we be able to communicate to the President of the Council, Enrico Letta, today in New York, this important provision of the Senate. I think that the President-in-Office of the Council will be more than happy to include such a procedure in his speech at the United Nations General Assembly. I just want to point out two points that seem important to me. Firstly, it is - as you pointed out both in the rapporteur's introduction and in your speeches - the first international treaty establishing legally binding rules on the import, export and transfer of conventional weapons. Not only that: this is a treaty that makes the arms trade more responsible and transparent. You are well aware - you have mentioned this in your work in the Commission and today too - that Italy has a particularly advanced legislation on this matter which will continue to apply, Law 185 of 1990. This means that we are already in a position to implement this kind of treaty; therefore, we will have no problems of implementation, indeed we consider our law a best practice for other countries as well. As you yourself mentioned, the passages of Article 6 are important: the automatic prohibition of arms transfer in the event of serious violations of the Geneva Convention, and paragraph 4 of Article 7, which refers to the problem of gender violence. I shall conclude with one last point which is very important. As you have seen, Mr Senators, they have not yet signed the Treaty countries which are very important for international arms trade, such as Russia, India, China and Saudi Arabia. When we signed the Treaty, we also announced that, together with the EEAS (European External Action Service of the European Union), we will take very active political-diplomatic action to achieve the signature of the countries that are lacking. Just look at the case of Syria: these are very important shortcomings; they are very important countries for international arms trade. Thank you again for the effort and for the very short time you have taken to achieve this result. In this way Italy will be one of the first countries to ratify the Treaty, as well as the first European country. Germany is proceeding quickly, but perhaps not as quickly as we have. So, thank you very much, and I hope that President Enrico Letta, in New York, will have the opportunity to properly value the work of this Senate. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u114	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u115	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the draft law in title, gives, as far as it is within its competence, a non-obstacle opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u116	We proceed to the examination of the articles of the bill no. 1041. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. I put to the vote Rule 2. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SCILIPOTI (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Scilipoti, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1041 and 898 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SCILIPOTI (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Scilipoti, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1041 and 898
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u119	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, a few words to present my Group's explanation of vote, adding that our aim should not be merely to restrict the arms trade. We hope that Parliament will begin to talk about reducing military spending. We have already said this this morning when we talked about culture and we said it in the debate on the F-35: perhaps we should aim for a European defence that can allow national defence forces to integrate and make economies. The world is rapidly changing and is investing in conflict prevention, disarmament and international cooperation that the world economy can share. Around the military, for all the resources that have been invested over the years, a great research revolves that often has strong civil relapses with the same technologies that can be used. A good starting point, therefore, to talk also about the conversion of the war industry. For this reason, it is inexplicable to us the announced choice to sell and disengage the civil sector of Finmeccanica with strategic sectors, such as that of Ansaldo energy, which has abandoned nuclear strategies and turned towards renewable energy. On the part of the state there seems to be a total lack of interest. At a time when the most advanced countries have, therefore, reduced their military spending, delayed over the years the modernization of the arsenals in order to have resources to invest immediately in a more fruitful way to get the economy back, we have before us clear indications on the things to do on the culture, the research, the new technology and, above all, on the conversion of technologies and experiences, made in recent years in the military field, for civil purposes, producing also goods to export. Even with regard to the massacres that we are witnessing unarmed - let us think about the massacres that occur regularly in the United States and, not least, that of Navy Yard, and the massacres committed by minors with their parents' weapons - it must be strongly said that a society with fewer weapons is definitely a safe society. [[Applause from Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u122	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I repeat what has just been said in general debate and I confirm the support of the North League for the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u125	MARAN (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the Civic Choice Group for Italy. As has already been pointed out, with the ratification of this Treaty we obtain an excellent result: establishing common legally binding rules on the import, export and transfer of conventional weapons, the Treaty makes the arms trade more responsible and transparent, contributing to the consolidation of peace and security at world level. It is also an excellent result in the national perspective, because it accepts our priorities, such as the inclusion of the golden rule for the defence of human rights and the rules of international humanitarian law. In the light of the impetus given to the negotiation by our country and in conjunction with the progress of the United Nations General Assembly in these days, we believe it is even more important that ratification of the Treaty should take place as soon as possible. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u128	MUSSINI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Dassu, who is here. I would like to take a few more minutes than the one we have had in general with the intention of speeding up the voting procedures for an extremely important measure. Apart from the component relating to the constituent elements of the Treaty and the historical framework in which it is incorporated, I would like to make a comment on a situation which is somewhat paradoxical and even somewhat contradictory. We affirm that the ratification of this Treaty puts us in a position to be one of the first countries to help ensure that its provisions can be applied in the appropriate fora and it is important that we do so so that the Italian representatives in the United Nations General Assembly can present Italy as an example of assuming responsibility in this direction. It is true that we have extremely advanced legislation and it is also true that the sensitivity in Italy on this issue is very strong, if we think of the 40,000 people who have been immortalized in the campaign for disarmament. This, however, is paradoxically opposed to another aspect: according to the estimates of the Italian network for disarmament in the last five years our country has exported common weapons and explosives for a total of 1.5 billion euros and so that first place that we try to achieve thanks to the ratification of this Treaty has been awarded exactly in the opposite direction. We have heard with great interest the words of Mr Pegorer who rightly argued that the reduction and control of arms trafficking also aims to reduce and prevent conflicts. It is precisely in this respect that we are going to ask a question with which we will ask whether it is true what we suppose, namely that Italy has carried out a substantial export of arms to Syria. Italy, in fact, exports weapons to various countries: China, Russian Federation, Israel, Syria, Turkey, Malaysia, Afghanistan (country from which I have just returned). In Afghanistan, the situation in which our military activity is intertwined with that of course humanitarian and cooperation has become extremely complex and difficult. I would like the ratification of this Treaty to have a different attitude on the part of an Assembly which paradoxically agrees but also tends to be quite distracted about everything around this issue, the philosophy that ratification of a treaty of this kind must embrace so as not to fall into hypocrisy and not follow the path of appearance and something that does not correspond to the real desire to embrace a different philosophy. Around arms there are banks, the technically most advanced industry, therefore also research, governments (because in a monopsony regime such as that concerning the arms trade governments are the first responsible), civil society, which is interested in the major issues but which must also follow the keyword, which is also contained in the Treaty, namely transparency. Of course, I am voting in favour of our Group's ratification measure, but at the same time, I would like to see a follow-up as soon as possible to the motion tabled on 3 June last at my first signature on the Syrian situation in which we ask Italy to take a clear, decisive, definitive position on everything that also concerns arms trade and trafficking in Syria and other countries. In this way, in the light of the concept of transparency and control, ratification of this Treaty can become the first step to embrace a different philosophy that also goes in the direction indicated by my colleague Petraglia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u131	Razzi (PdL). Madam President, Senators, the PDL Group will vote for the ratification of the arms trade treaty, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in New York. And it will do so not for granted demagogy, but to contribute to international peace and stability. The illicit trade in arms disrupts the balance between men and sows only uncontrolled fury, oppression and violation of human rights. The Treaty, whose ratification we are preparing to authorize, runs to the rescue of serious shortcomings inherent in the lack of legal and objective regulation of the trade in conventional weapons. It is obvious that peace processes are systematically undermined in the absence of common and binding standard rules on the import and circulation of conventional weapons. While recognizing legitimate on the part of every Government continued to sell, purchase and possess weapons, as a guarantee of the security and self-defense of each nation, it felt necessary to intervene in a general and effective initiative to avoid any abuse and violation of human rights and international law. For these and other reasons relating to peace and security between States, the PDL Group will vote in favour of the ratification of this Treaty. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u134	AMATI (PD). Madam President, in declaring the Democratic Group's vote in favour, I would like to draw attention to two issues: one concerning the importance of the Treaty at international level (although I have to say that knowing that only four nations have ratified it to date is obviously not comforting, and we hope that Europe can take a step forward and that we can be a driving force for the European Union) and the other concerning the role that Italy will have within the European Union to give a sign of responsibility to this great Europe of ours. We finally have an international instrument that sets high standards for the control of conventional arms transfers, recognizing the disastrous humanitarian consequences of irresponsible trade, which is complicit in serious violations of human rights and hinders the economic and social development of entire regions. It is important to stress that, among the various types of arms, the Treaty regulates the trade in small and light weapons. These, as Kofi Annan, formerly Secretary-General of the United Nations, had said in the past, constitute real weapons of mass destruction, accessible and easy to use, which feed the so-called low- and medium-intensity conflicts, still causing a very high number of civilian victims. Think of the drama of child soldiers, kidnapped, beaten, drugged, armed and put at the service of warlords. Human rights, moreover, are interdependent and cannot be promoted without also intervening in the structural causes of their violation. In this respect, very important progress has been made with the adoption of instruments banning anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs. It has been recalled here that important countries have not adopted other important conventions. I recall that the United States, Israel and other countries have not even adopted conventions concerning cluster bombs. International conventions represent important steps, to which we are adapting and trying to follow subsequent important acts, but they are essential in the way of global democracy in the world. However, to date there have been no binding international instruments in relation to the trade in conventional weapons and national standards in this area are uneven. The Treaty now, while recognizing the leading role of States in establishing national disciplines, nevertheless lays down common standards. Also the Italian Network for disarmament recognizes the thirty-year experience gained by Italy as a legislative reference in the humanitarian implications of the choices of the sector. The adoption of Law No 185 of 1990, which has been mentioned several times in this House, has enabled our country to take a decisive step forward. I do not want to go too far, and I would ask you to hand over the full text of my speech because I want to be able to vote on the act before 1 p.m., even though we could have better distributed our time, if I think that we were summoned yesterday and did not work at all. I conclude by saying that fundamental rights cannot and must not be put in competition with economic reasons. Precisely for this reason, the Democratic Party Group is voting in favour of the draft law under consideration by putting this principle at the basis of each assessment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u137	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u138	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the bill No 1041, as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] The draft law No 898 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u141	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, this is rather embarrassing, but I pressed the white button instead of the green button. Having made the explanation of vote in favour, I believe that this correction should be made.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u142	The Offices take note of this. The speeches at the end of the sitting, as a result of the continuation of our work, will be held at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-110.ana.u143	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.53.
