ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 9 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). There are many Commissions gathered! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I now have - if someone has not already done so, but there should be self-regulation - that the Commissions should be immediately disconcerted. But it is the responsibility of the Presidents to do so when the sitting of the House begins. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 3.07 p.m. and resumed at 327 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u6	Colleagues, the session is resumed. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u13	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, I and the other members of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities were absent from the first check on the quorum because at the same time we were engaged in the work of the Council. On the contrary, it was the same 5 Star Movement Group - which I believe has asked the House to check the quorum for a few more minutes - that in Junta asked to move forward. Let's agree on what to do, because that's not possible. [[Applause from the PDL, PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u16	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I confirm what Senator Caliendo said earlier. I would like to point out that we stayed in the elections because we were dealing with very sensitive issues and because the President, at the end of his work this morning, said that the work of the European Parliament would begin at 2 p.m. It is obvious that we should have stopped, however, because of the delicacy of the issues that were being discussed, we paused for a few more minutes and the sitting ended at approximately 15.05-15.10, with the consent of all the Groups, because all those present remained. Moreover, from Palazzo Sapienza, seat of the Junta takes a few minutes before arriving in the Chamber. Mr President, I believe that this situation should be regulated and this contemporaneity should be avoided, at least for a few minutes, if it is known that there are committees that have been convened outside Madame's palace for more.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u19	DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Mr President, I was very fast and arrived in time, but I find myself in the words of Mr Caliendo and Mr Casson. It is a matter of fair play: we agree, we said it explicitly. Otherwise, next time we leave, and the Junta ends as it ends. We took three more minutes in Junta, with the agreement of all the Groups, including the 5 Star Movement Group, after we also specified that we did not ask for a quorum. Otherwise it becomes a little game.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u22	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Mr President, I too would like to join in the comments of my fellow Members. As Vice-President of the Environment Commission, I would like to justify colleagues who were not present because they were engaged in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u23	We'll see if we can organize our jobs better, but if we don't have a quorum once, it's not like the world falls.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u24	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u25	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation starts (15.29 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u26	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 813 and 343. I would remind you that the debate on the articles and amendments relating to them was concluded in the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u29	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in declaring the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies - PSI, I would like to thank in a non-formal way the Commission and its President, above all, for the excellent and constructive work they have done there; I would also like to thank the Minister for the attention he has paid to the work of the Commission and of this House: it is truly non-ritual thanks. I shall be brief, so as not to repeat the points which have already been raised in general debate. I ask three small questions. The first is that many Members who have much more experience than I have at the beginning of this reform process, in the face of my enthusiasm, have always warned me that so much will be yet another attempt destined to end up in thin air. Those who have seen so many before can testify to that. In fact, seeing what happened yesterday, perhaps some doubt came to me too, but in this case we cannot really fail. I believe that this is a test that does not appeal, precisely because we can no longer afford the economic, social and cultural costs, also, of an inefficient institutional system. It is true that something more urgent always comes out at the last minute, but this time frankly we must not allow it to happen. The Committee's work programme is very ambitious. It is also true that the more meat is put into the fire, the more the risk of something going wrong and failing. I am referring above all to the question of electoral law, which, not by chance, has occupied much of the time of the general debate, although, in fact, from the institutional point of view it is an absolutely minor aspect. The fundamental point seems to me to be the need to ensure the systematic nature of the work that the Committee will have to produce, even with reference to the connection that this will have, of course, only informal, with the work of the Committee of Experts installed in the Government. That is why I hope that we will not achieve four revision texts, perhaps coordinated in the most systematic way possible, but only one, precisely in order to try to minimise the risks of unsystematicity of the reform, which seems to me to be the greatest ones that it runs, obviously leaving aside purely political ones. The second question I would like to raise is the following. If we retrace the history, short but already very intense, of this provision we must be moderately satisfied; and moderately it is better than nothing. In fact, it has changed a lot since we left, only two months ago. Yesterday the Minister reminded us that the initial hypothesis was that of a Convention. I say something perhaps unorthodox in this House: I personally believe that perhaps that would have been the best idea for ensuring systematicity (certainly, it would have created other problems in terms of legitimacy). We have reached the text that we have produced. The point is that, in fact, Parliaments, not only the Italian Parliament, have problems in making major reforms. There are aspects on which we should question ourselves, but this is not the place. It is right, however, to see in the process that a very important act of trust in Parliament is going to be adopted, which Parliament, however, will not be able to betray. As I said before, this time you can't fail. There have been very difficult balances between the centrality of Parliament, on the one hand, and the need to ensure those demands of pluralism, popular participation and attention to the technical and not just political aspects that are necessary on the other. These balances are the result of a compromise. Like all compromises, there is never anything perfect, but the fundamental point on which we are called to decide at this time seems to me to be just one: do we mean, or not, to move forward and - possibly - get somewhere with the reform? Do we at least agree that the Constitution requires changes in the general interest, or not? Do we have a minimum common denominator or not? Otherwise, it's hard to leave. We must take advantage of the occasion of the great coalition that, in other countries, is usually the ideal condition to produce great constitutional reforms: in Italy we hope it is. I'll move on to the last point. I am not going to go into the matter, because this is a procedural law. This is the right way to start: start with the procedure and not with the content. That is why - that is to say, because we are talking about a procedural law - I believe that the fears that have been raised in the general discussion of a possible excess of the power of constitutional revision are, at least at this stage, completely unfounded. Also because, as Senator Campanella also mentioned in the general discussion, the Constitutional Court affirmed its power to review the constitutional legitimacy of constitutional revisions if they violate fundamental principles. However, the procedural law is not just that, because it also gives us the scope of the Committee's work, and there are some aspects that are likely to threaten the systematic nature of the work. One of these is the possibility of four different texts which, perhaps subject to referendums, could lead to different outcomes, with rather disastrous systemic consequences. The other is - let me just give one example - article 6, paragraph 2, in which it is written that for the modification of the law or of the constitutional or ordinary laws, approved according to this constitutional law, the norms provided for by the Constitution are observed. This is one way of repeating, in a certain sense, the respect for Article 138 of the Constitution, making it more democratic (and not less democratic) and more guaranteed and to say that it is a one-off derogation from Article 138. However, as an academic I say that then we must always try to find a meaning to the words of the legislator. In this case, the sense is actually a little pleonastic. However, it is essential to start and then focus on content, also hoping constructively. I refer only to the question of the possible - indeed certain - revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, with regard to relations between the State, regions and local authorities. Of course we will fight not to prevail that centralist misunderstanding that occasionally in this Parliament hovers, according to which the State could better manage the complexity of which this country feeds. I believe that this is a gross mistake, and we will endeavour to ensure that there is no place in the Committee's work. In conclusion, it seems to me that the fundamental element is only one: that it takes a minimum of sharing in the basic rules to make a constitutional reform is an obvious thing, but we do well to repeat it. We must not become - or hope to become - suddenly like the British, who have such a rigid Constitution that they do not even need to be completely written, and therefore it is very rigid in its maximum flexibility. We are, however, proving a little too much constitutional suspicion, which also produces too much regulation. I shall conclude my speech with the example of Article 2 (5) of the draft law, in which, by virtue of an amendment adopted in the Commission, it is stipulated that: The Presidents of the Committee shall appoint one or two rapporteurs and, in that case, a senator and a Member of the Committee. It is a detail, an absolute detail, but it is revealing that constitutional conventions do not work, that no one and nothing are trusted. It was clearly an implicit rule that was intended to be explicit precisely for this excess of constitutional suspicion. But that is precisely why reform is essential, because our Constitution, as we know, especially in the field of the form of government, is very wide-ranging and presupposes many conventions. If we are unable to fill these meshes with mutual trust, we need a Constitution that is more precise and more detailed and that can prevent the risks of this institutional suspicion. I would once again like to thank my colleagues in the Commission for their work and hope that we can start working quickly and constructively in the Committee. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator Giannini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u32	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived in the sufficiently fast times we had set ourselves for this first date: we are launching the draft Constitutional Review and we are organizing the first instruments to make the reform that we are about to launch effective, important. We could only be satisfied, although satisfaction must also leave room for some remarks that are necessary for the continuation of our action. In these days we have seen private vices and public virtues exercised. We have seen a Commission which has worked hard and which has found important mediations within it. We ourselves, the Group of the Grand Autonomous Left and Freedoms, have tabled amendment 2.22 which proposed extending the constitutional amendment to those Titles of the Constitution which were not indicated in the Committee's draft that we are going to launch today, which was then absorbed by an overall amendment tabled by the rapporteur (who we thank) who better drew up the limits and action of the Committee. In this same spirit of inactivity and collaboration, all the other groups have worked, including those who have declared themselves opposed to this process of constitutional revision, except then to record behaviour in the Chamber or in the press other than those we have seen in the working tables. I was able to see a rather passionate speech, but I must say a little hypocritical, from my point of view, of a representative of the Mixed Group, who has come to say that we should have taken better the time at our disposal to resolve the economic problems of the country, employment or unemployment, as if anyone who wants to raise the problem of constitutional reform does not have this kind of issue at heart. But how many times have we told ourselves, Senator Uras, that constitutional reform is also an important, fundamental moment of economic development, that and the ageing of our institutions? How many times have we told each other? Yet, for the pleasure of ten minutes of speaking in this House, which we think can grasp the benevolence of those who listen to us, we can also demolish what we can do in the Commission in a spirit of sharing. Or, political forces that have presented themselves from outside and have landed in Parliament as regenerating forces of the system, willing to give new tools to our democracy for a more modern participation and management of our nation and our Italy, are here to hold somewhat obstructive attitudes and to insert elements... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Very obstructive, you are right, because, for example, even the request for verification of the quorum at the beginning of the sitting had no political basis other than to make an easy obstruction; it is well known, then, that the interventions in the phase of illustration of the amendments are always used by those who want to make parliamentary filibustering, and this has also been used in this case, in the face of modernization. But then what about the public statements and the behaviors that are carried out accordingly? Yesterday we heard the head of the Cricket 5 Star Movement announce the accession to the referendum on justice proposed by the radicals of Marco Pannella and everything else. And then, the attitudes held in this Chamber, for example, by Senator Crimi, on the issue of justice: yesterday he even called for scandal, for stir, because in this House there were problems of the justice of the individual or that other. Let's agree on a fact, dear friends. Let us be indignant about the things that really make us morally indignant and from within. When we face reforms, when we want to do a service to the country, we make it full, if we can discern propaganda, the moment of proselytism or electoral campaign from what is substance, from what is necessary. Also on the necessary you can divide, because the recipes for the best can be different. But on these we must divide, and not on taking off our jacket or tie, not on the evidence of gestures that represent a moment of media protagonism, and not of substance. Because then I'm a little sorry to see you put your jacket on just so you can have access to the Senate Restaurant of the Republic reserved for senators. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I understand that more than honor could fast, and therefore the appetite of Senator Crimes needed to be satisfied. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] But I must say, dear friends, that we need to find a way to say it and I already said... I understand it hurts sometimes. Know, however, that being censors always presupposes the right to be recorded or censored when perhaps some behavior is not recorded and censored [[Comments from the M5S Group]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] We already complained at the beginning of the route. We did not have the courage to address the problem of Title IV of the Constitution, the problem of justice. We have excluded it from the Commission's action. But both the rapporteur and the PD leader in the Commission, Senator Lo Moro, have reassured us that this does not mean that we will not discuss the right process and review of the justice system in our country. We'll pay attention to this. In the meantime, we're leaving. It's important to leave in time. It is important to start with cohesion. It is important that those who have criticized the composition of the Commission and certain aspects should also participate in this process, but the constituent process must involve everyone. The Government, Mr Minister, must also be more careful. The government must not, too, let itself be taken by the announcement effects. We did not like the constitutional bill, which intervened 24 hours after the rejection by the Consulta of the legislation for the suppression of the Provinces. We did not like it, also because sometimes the haste is bad counselor. Even in the same wording, you should have been more careful, Minister, because you...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u33	Minister, Mr Mauro is asking for your attention, quite rightly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u34	Thank you, Minister. (Laughter from the benches of the M5S Group). The great laughter of my colleague, Mr Pentastellato, is indeed a pleasure, redundant in this House. As I said, Mr President, the effects of the announcement are not necessary, even when they come from the government, because we need harmonious reforms. The abolition of the Provinces is certainly an important issue. (15:51) (Following MAURO Giovanni) This is an issue to be addressed: Provinces need to be reformed, but not before large-area governance systems have been identified. We are not afraid to address any issues, but it is clear that we care about the problems of the citizens: not the problems of the Provinces, but those of the citizens who live in them and who, in fact, have so many problems, which must be solved. With this absolutely constructive spirit I announce the favorable vote of the Great Autonomous Groups and Freedoms, hoping that this great project of constitutional reform will lead to the renewal of our country. [[Applause from the LAG Group, PdL. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u37	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, during the debate and during the vote on the amendments, we had the opportunity to put a number of absolutely fundamental questions for us, and therefore to emphasise in great detail the points which, in our view, do not go at this beginning of the reform process and in the constitutional bill at our examination. Let me first of all ask a question, I do not know if it is useful for clarification, but certainly useful to understand well what we are talking about. In fact, we would not want our positions, which have highlighted some procedural issues, in our opinion certainly not secondary, to be interpreted, as I have heard from some senators, and to be dismissed as an expression of a division that we would see as conservatives, while on the other hand there would be innovators. Apart from the fact that, being an environmentalist, being a conservative can also please me, because my political action has as its main purpose the conservation of the ecosystem, I believe that all of us, Senators and Senators of the Mixed Group, can also take this definition as a compliment, if being defined as conservatives means being as the never enough regret President Scalfaro, who defended up to the last the Constitution [[Applause from Senators Uras and Campanella]] and that, in 2006, led those committees that rejected constitutional reform - voted by the forces of the then majority, which is partly the protagonist of today's process - to preserve the spirit of the Constitution, not generically, but as a strong and important element also for the future of our country. Even then the members of that majority were called innovators, who voted - by majority only - that proposal for constitutional reform, but fortunately the people, in their wisdom, through the referendum, did not confirm that reform. So they too - I repeat - felt innovative. As you can see - I tell the many who have proclaimed themselves, again in this case, innovators against the conservatives, that is against those who have opposed a series of doubts, substantial from our point of view - it is not all so easy to read: things - alas! - they're much more complex. We do not even feel conservative - I say this quite frankly - because - as I said in various speeches today - we have always said that one thing is to intervene in order to amend the Constitution in some parts in a precise, precise and circumscribed way (but the border has not been drawn in this sense today, indeed, it has been very enlarged), to begin, something on which there is availability, in addition to the fact that even in the wider debate among the constitutionalists there are points quite shared, another account is what has been started here: it has been wanted to do hastyly - I come back to repeat: very hasty - a step that goes far beyond that. I would ask each of the senators, and particularly my colleagues in the Democratic Party, to understand - and perhaps a more frank debate would have been appropriate, which in some way precedes the commitment to the Committee's constitution - what are the most urgent issues, what is the limit that we want to reach and where we want to move. This is not only because of the many issues we have raised today, but, I believe, also because of clarity in the course of our work. I also say that, unfortunately, this somewhat hasty debate - other senators have also mentioned it - is not new in our country. Senator Tocci spoke the other day of some sort of compulsive obsession with reforms. We fully agree, partly because we do not feel that this compulsive obsession has produced significant results to date. Think only of the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, to which everyone says today that it is necessary to put back hand, which has led to an unprecedented conflict at the Constitutional Court in the matter of attribution and competences. Think of the hasty way in which it was incorporated into the Constitution - and I come to a much closer subject at a time - balance of the budget, except then, whenever there is a decree to be passed or a debate on Europe, to have those who regret having introduced balance of the budget into the Constitution as a further heavy constraint. This obsession, then, did not bring good. It has a very specific cause, namely the attempt to place once again on the shoulders of the Constitution the responsibility for the malfunctioning of our democracy, for the enormous detachment between citizens, politics and institutions: a responsibility which, on the other hand, is all about bad politics. And I'm not talking generically about self-form, but I say it as it is: bad politics. I must say that I was impressed, just as it hit all of us very hard, by President Letta's statement that the President of the Republic must never again be voted on with the system used during the last election, as if what happened in those days were the responsibility of the Constitution. Instead, as we know perfectly well, it was the responsibility of bad politics, and I do not want to add anything else. It is this self-absolving, trying to throw it on the Constitution and reforms, perhaps as a panacea of all evils, that we do not share at all. In addition, a path has been chosen, which is the derogation from Article 138 of the Constitution; a path has been chosen which is not a happy compromise compared to the centrality of Parliament. We had an obsessive debate this morning, and you did not want to change this absolutely fundamental point about the right of every Member to participate in the proceedings and therefore to be able to submit sub-amendments, and that is not a secondary issue. I repeat that we had said very clearly that it was not just a matter of majority and opposition, but that it should be a very serious and engaging process throughout Parliament. Instead, you have once again drawn the border of the majority, only and exclusively of the majority. But it will not be good for you: remember the end that other attempts at reform have made from this point of view. The truth - and I end my speech, President, by declaring the opposite vote of the Senators and Senators of the Mixed Left Group Ecology and Freedom on the draft law under consideration - is that you use the reforms (in this case there is, among other things, an instrumentality that really should make you think) as an insurance policy to keep up a strange majority, a strange government, which - as you see - shattered, as happened yesterday, for the personal and judicial events of Senator Berlusconi. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Mixed Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u40	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Quagliariello, on the day of your Government's inauguration, the North League voted to abstain because President Letta, in his speech, spoke wisely of reforms and of certain times for their implementation. But now, after three months, it is time to take stock, both of the general government action and of the reform front. Dear Minister Quagliariello, the government to which you belong and the majority who support it are a real disaster. I've never seen such a large majority of government and so ganghered, but I've never even seen that shooting every day at the President of the Council or one of its Ministers are the highest representatives of the parties that make up the governing body. Let me make a joke: with a Brunetta and a Renzi a day the government is taken away! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] But in opposition there does not seem to be only the majority parties, there also appear to be some Ministers and Undersecretaries who, speaking in vain and freewheel, demonstrate their inadequacy with respect to the role they play and objectively put the President of the Council in difficulty. But let's forget about people and go to content. The measures taken on the IMU and VAT are a real joke. Rather than permanently abolishing the IMU, as we had done with the ICI, and canceling the increase in VAT, you only postponed it, and by the way you did it without cover. A state which, in order to postpone the increase of one tax, calls for the advance of another tax, equal to or greater than 100%, is making a state robbery against the citizen. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Not only that: such an operation cannot cover anything, because, given the growth or rather the decline of the economy, the proceeds of the payments, even if 100%, will be lower than expected by the trends and therefore use this operation as a cover is to make a fake in the budget and certify it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But also on everything else, government action is a tragedy: your motto is not to decide, to differ, to move, not to do. "Supire, truncate, (...) truncate, somire" would have said the old counte uncle of "I Promessi Sposi." Other than making decreto. We've moved from a thousand-pronged decree to a thousand-pronged government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You showed the only decision when it was necessary to make appointments: on those at the first shot you found the square and settled everyone in the cemetery of the elephants of the public administration, friends and relatives, with good peace of public debts and meritocracy. The same decision-making you only demonstrated when you made a decree-law to get thousands of criminals out of prison. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] putting them in a position to return to crime, since it is also a matter of relapses. Dear Government, the number and capacity of prisons must be compared to the number of crimes committed and not the opposite. If a large part of the prison population is made up of non-EU or foreign nationals, who go to serve the sentence in the country of origin [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , resolving on the one hand the problem of prison overcrowding and, on the other hand, releasing resources that make detention an instrument of reeducation and rehabilitation and not only of punishment. But let's forget about general government action (it would take days to comment on it). Unfortunately, we are also in danger of going too far on reforms. In his speech, President Letta had spoken of eighteen months in order to achieve them, but three months have already passed since then, and we are already at twenty-one months, to which we must add the four months necessary for the approval of the Committee, and so we have reached twenty-five months, thus exceeding the gestation period of a pachyderma. Moreover, the original text of the Government was to ensure that the reform was launched within eighteen months, while the Commission's text has gone to a weaker "allow", which in terms of certainty of the times - allow me - reminds me of the line "my daughter" is pregnant, but only a little bit. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Anyway, I still believe it, despite the fact that you're being summoned by other classrooms, they seem to prove otherwise. Dear Senator Mauro, it is not true that there was no mention of Title IV of Part II of the Constitution: yesterday we occupied the day talking about Title IV. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] We have made a contribution to the Commission by approving many of our amendments which have made the Committee and its operation certain, and our contribution has continued to do so in this House too with so many agendas setting out for the next writing of the reform. But when we get to the point, you will not, nor will you, betray our trust. Dear President Finocchiaro, dear Minister Quagliariello, do as many beautiful knots to the handkerchief as there are the points that I will now give you. Firstly, the number of Members of Parliament should not be reduced by fake, it should really be halved, bear that in mind. [[Applause from the LN-Aut groups and Senator Paglini]] Five hundred MPs and senators are sufficient and advancing. Second, the federal senate. President Letta in his speech spoke of a real federal Senate, as we want it, and not of a papocchio made only to please the current senators or those who work in the Palace. Third: premiered strong or semi-presidentialism. Personally, I am not in love with one of the two models, but I am demanding a formula that states that the Government can govern, that Parliament can legislate and direct the Executive and that the opposition can carry out its function of control and guarantee. Fourth: federalism. But this time it is really done by establishing, once and for all, what the state must do, what the regions must do and what the local authorities must do. But be careful! I would never want anyone to try, with the excuse of ordering the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution, to bring it all back to the State by deleting that bit of federalism in our Constitution. Dear Minister, we want more federalism and less centralism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Minister Quagliariello conversa on the phone]] I talked about centralism, not switchboard! [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u41	Minister, please. Anyway, Senator Calderoli, you can move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u42	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We don't like the sketches that come out of your department underground, I'm telling you: Minister warned, Minister half-saved. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Fifth: fiscal federalism. This reform must, as President Letta said, establish a fairer distribution of tax revenue between the centre and the periphery, and it must be an opportunity to give full implementation to the fiscal federalism approved in the previous legislature, starting from the standard costs incredibly put in the drawer by the Monti Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senator Bianconi]] ). If only the per capita health costs of the Lombardy Region were applied in all regions, we would have a structural savings of 27 billion euros per year: an entire financial, other than your cover for IMU and VAT! Tell that to Minister Saccomanni. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Sixth: we are also interested in macro-regions, which should not only concern the North but also and especially the South and those regions which are even smaller than the present Provinces. And with regard to the latter, I refer to what my colleague Mr Mauro has just said: the Government's bill on the Provinces is a disgrace. Enough with the policy of announcements and texts written quickly, which, among other things, with the transitional rules, put the old Provinces back in place as before! I would rather read my proposal, which turns them into regional local authorities, whose exclusive legal competence will be for the regions. Each Region must and will be able to decide on the number and role of the Provinces according to its own needs: this is federalism! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Groups.]] In conclusion, we will vote yes to this law, but from now on the timer will start, which for you and for President Letta will be the timer of a hand-held bomb: if the reforms were not to be carried out in the prescribed terms I will come to take you and President Letta home myself, and pulling by your ears I will bring you to your knees on the chickpeas by President Napolitano to resign the due resignation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] And that's not a joke, it's a threat! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u45	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, I would like to thank President Finocchiaro and the rapporteurs for the work they have done and for the sensitivity with which they have addressed this issue so important to all of us. Today's could be a formal occasion: to be able to say yes to a bill that is merely procedural. But we know that is not the case, we start a difficult journey and you, Senator De Petris, will probably be right to say that this reform path is just a policy on the life of the government. Unfortunately, other clouds are gathering on the horizon, and we hope that the common reference to the founding values of the Republic, including the principle of separation of powers, will help to avoid clouding the wisdom and prudence demonstrated so far by those who also refer to the liberal tradition and have in this tradition their ideal references. But let us have this life insurance policy, if it is such as to give us in just over a year's time a deeply revisited Parliament, reduced in its size but enhanced in efficiency and effectiveness, which is still central to the other institutions. Welcome, if you are able to give us a Constitution that rewrites the relationship between the central state and the autonomy, overcoming the schizophrenia of these ten years often carried on raping it precisely in the name of the autonomy. Welcome if, with a government that recovers full democratic legitimacy and with an electoral law more respectful of electoral rights, politics will be able to sew up a trust relationship, today torn, with the country. It is sad, therefore, to hear above all from those who do not miss the opportunity to remember the centrality of Parliament's comments, criticisms, attacks, words, sometimes even out of their mind, against what we are doing these days. We are doing exactly what we promised during the election campaign in order to regain a compromised credibility: to start a constitutional reform in order to give Italy more efficient and effective institutions, but equally representative, and to allow us to maintain our place in Europe and in the world. Sure, we're just getting started. The route will not be short; much and many will try to interrupt or hinder it. However, we are aware that not only the majority but the whole Parliament will measure its credibility in achieving this objective. We can't afford to fail. It is up to the majority to ensure that this priority, indicated by the President of the Republic and by the President of the Council on the occasion of their investiture, is not disregarded. With the vote in favour of this bill, Civic Choice for Italy intends to adhere unreservedly to this which for us is a duty not only of loyalty to the warning of the highest judiciary of the Republic or to a Government, but of consistent loyalty to a pact that we wrote on February 25 with three and a half million voters. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u48	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have come almost to the end of the urgent procedure by which this House has decided to deal with the draft law for the establishment of the Committee on Constitutional Reforms. The 5 Star Movement believes that the Constitution needs to be updated to optimise the organs and procedures that are foreseen there, to make them more effective and to reduce the costs of the state machine. But it is not only an economic consideration, but rather a sociopolitical need: to avoid the constitution and maintenance of a class that manages the public thing and tends to become a separate body, like a real class. Instead, the parties, which in the last twenty-thirty years have failed to manage the ordinary, promise and promise the Italian people to do extraordinary things. The 5 Star Movement believes that robust doses of direct democracy should be injected into the order drawn by the Constitution [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli]] and any appropriate measures to effectively restore the control of political processes to the citizens. However, the 5 Star Movement is contrary to the constitution of this Committee. We have analysed the reasons for this in recent weeks in our speeches in the Commission and in this House. Allow me now to summarize them. One of the problems is the political origin of this Committee, which is very, very much linked to the political composition of the strange majority that governs the present Government. This majority wanted to take up the President of the Republic's call to carry out reforms, but perhaps it did not take on a nodal aspect. (16.20) (Followed by Campanella). The electoral outcome, which is the basis of the composition of this Parliament, was a very strong alarm for the political parties that have been occupying and managing the institutions for decades. The answer was the declaration of will to implement the reforms. Attention: it is a declaration of will, but of will alone, or just a declaration, because there is no broad agreement between the forces present in Parliament, but there is no general agreement even between the forces present in the majority. We know that one party has no intention of accessing presidential or semi-presidentialist forms and another party is just what it wants. We know that one party does not intend to put its hand in Title IV of Part II of the Constitution; we know that another party is exactly what it wants, where Title IV, for the citizens who listen to us, is the judiciary. There is a part of this Parliament which, in the most transparent and clear way possible, has expressed its intention to put the requisitioning judiciary under control. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is a part of this Parliament which, following its leader, is liberal in a flexible way. It is liberal for the part that interests you, it is less so when it comes to the division of powers. At this point, the tacit agreement seems to be to take time, to give rise to the activity of a Government at a time of objective economic difficulty, very strong for Italy and extremely felt among the citizens, not to face the tragic knot of electoral reform, which is another of the pomes of discord, because we have been accustomed for years to seeing electoral reforms that served the interests of the part that promoted it. At this point, therefore, we take the electoral reform to be done (because it must be done clearly to everyone, especially to the citizens), and we move it to date to be defined, after defining the difficult - I repeat: difficult - agreements at institutional level. In all of this, the will to respond to the needs of the citizens is undermined in order to do this. Gentlemen, we all know here, as they know outside, that the citizens of this dramatic need to change the institutional order, the architecture of the State do not warn it, except for the part that is least wanted to change, as the colleagues of the League mentioned earlier: the number of parliamentarians. And that is also a requirement linked not to an awareness of the excess of the number, as to the awareness of the improdability of the parliamentary classrooms in recent years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The problem, however, is not that the parliamentary classrooms are unproductive because they are full of members who are not able to operate: the parliamentary classrooms are unproductive for reasons that were clearly exemplified yesterday afternoon. They are unproductive because on the one hand there is the interest, now proclaimed, absolutely licensed, to defend a person: not a principle, attention, because to the defects of the malfunctioning of justice there are many people in Italy who are subject, whether it is criminal justice, or civil justice. But to justice, even to the minimum of the judge of peace, we usually respond by putting a jump to access the judgment of the judge of peace. It is not, therefore, a requirement felt in the same way by everyone. Therefore, colleagues from the PDL, when you say that it is a matter of ensuring justice to every citizen, it is not so, because we are talking about a citizen who is very clearly and personally defined, that we would all know better if he were more present in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At this point, in this state of affairs, the first victim is the rigidity of our Constitution, rigidity that the constituent Fathers had placed on guard of the functioning of the Republic, which must be based on some firm points. The beauty, the characteristic of the Constitution is that it gives us a grid within which we can move even with standardization. We, on the other hand, set aside this rigidity, at the moment when it is most needed and at the moment when it is best established, to do it first and to do it better. How? By reducing the prerogatives of the parliamentarians; by reducing the time between one reading and the other of the constitutional laws that would eventually be adopted; basically by compressing the function of Parliament, even for the benefit of the Government which is improperly - forgive me the term - is called to act in the process proposing a bill and calling to collect a large number of academics to advise it...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u49	Conclude, Senator Bell.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u50	CAMPANELLA (M5S). ...almost supporting - I am finishing, Mr President - a sort of legitimacy to operate that is not political. That is not clear, because even in the speeches of some of the previous speakers it has been clearly, clearly and clearly stated that there is a problem in the composition of this Parliament. This is not a formal problem, but a substantial one, to the extent that none of us in this House has been directly voted on by a citizen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Bell. I don't want to take your word for it, but you've been talking for 12 minutes. CAMPANELLA (M5S). A few words and I shall finish, Mr President. We have tried to help by calling for greater participation of citizens and we will continue to do so. This House has committed itself to the adoption of an agenda. We will actually try to achieve this. This House, I repeat, has committed itself and at this point we hope to reduce the damage, because we are aware that within this House we are in a clear minority, but be aware that outside this House we are equally a clearly majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators De Petris, Giro and Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u53	BRUNO (PdL). Mr President, I should like to say straight away that we shall be voting in favour of this measure. The first reason we are in favour of is the one which sets out and reports, by means of this measure, the centrality of Parliament. I remember when, at the beginning of this debate, some people would have liked a Committee made up of Members of Parliament and so-called lay members. The intention of the proposers was not fully understood, but fortunately this path has been shelved. Allow me to add a further comment on this point. I do not understand to what end the Government has opted for the constitution in its own college of wise men, which should have the aim of cooperating for the best drafting of the texts that the Government then will offer to Parliament itself. The experience already gained in the Chamber of Deputies, but also that which took place in the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the hearing, has pointed out, where there was still a need for it, that sometimes there is no need for comparisons with experts. In fact, at the hearing we heard two university professors, who I feel to thank for their scientific rigour and for their depth; but both Professor Pace and Professor Marini have illustrated conflicting thesis that, if amplified in a gathering of 42 experts, little or nothing will be able to contribute to facilitate and support the activity of the Government and consequently the activity of Parliament. On the other hand the rumors of these hours about the different positions of these essays confirm the higher assumption. But so much so: that choice the government has made and we wait confidently, even if with a bit of skepticism, the work that is being produced. Turning back to our draft law, I would stress that this is a measure which aims to establish guidelines, rules and procedures, which must be observed in order to achieve the desired reforms of Part II of the Constitution. The text offered to us by the Government was already in principle shared and tried to leave it, as much as possible, as it was in its original wording, except to intervene on certain points, only to make it more responsive to the debate that has developed in the Commission, both in the general discussion and in what has arisen in the amending phase. In particular, we considered, like PdL, to table a few amendments that would complement and better define certain passages that the Government had assumed. In concrete terms, we felt that it was not clear enough to read the text in the section which indicated the numerical composition of the Committee. Our amendment better specified that the forty members had to be joined by the two Presidents of the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and Senate. We then considered that, in the absence of any reference to the necessary amendments to Title IV and VI of Part II of the Constitution, there could be a real doubt that the Committee could not have intervened on those parts, precisely Title IV and VI, for the corrections that had become necessary as a result of the changes in the form of State and the form of Government. Suffice it to think of the Presidency of the MSM or the criterion of appointment of the judges of the Consulta, where we were to decide on the end of the perfect bicameralism, which would almost certainly see the Senate having its own right to the appointment of a number to be established of the members of the Constitutional Court. Another point that we consider to be a qualifying point was that of examining the draft legislation on the reform of the electoral law, which will necessarily have to follow the new structure that Parliament will decide on in this regard. This being so, the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and the Senate are not precluded from discussing and evaluating electoral laws that are considered necessary and appropriate, evaluation, moreover, all political. I would advise against running forward if not agreed in political terms, because these could have the sole purpose of collapsing the reform process. Another point of particular importance is Article 5, which concerns the referendum. The aim was to strengthen the scope of Article 138 of the Constitution by providing, if requested, for a referendum even when the law was passed with a two-thirds quorum. In conclusion, I should like to thank all those who have spoken both here and in the Commission. In particular, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro and Mr Quagliariello. I have listened to many speeches that have also entertained us touching issues of merit, here certainly out of place and ultrones: there will be time and all the topics that will have to be dealt with will be developed worthily. I insist: this is a measure aimed solely and exclusively at establishing rules and procedures to be laid down on the basis of the heavy work that awaits us. Today's is the second step, after the approval of the motion on constitutional reforms of 29 May 2013, followed by that of the texts on the new configuration of the institutional structure. I hope that this time the reform process can proceed smoothly in order to come to an end. It would be the writing of a beautiful book: today we are all writing together an important page and I - personally - also feel the responsibility. Addressing today's oppositions, I ask you not to waste an opportunity that our country's parliamentary history has entrusted to us. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senators Compañera, Finocchiaro and Lo Moro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u56	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, just now Senator Susta reminded us that the rules that we will shortly approve are not mere procedural provisions; they are not even substantial changes to our Constitution, as others say. Politically, in essence, they mark the start of a reform process, the content of which still needs to be elaborated and defined. In the method, I see in the measure important basic indications: confirmation of the need to respect the spirit and the requirements of Article 138 of the Constitution, but also the necessity and urgency of the reform process. The decision of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of the ordinary law of reduction of the Provinces tells us how little shortcuts are needed. A large part of the public wonders whether Parliament will live up to this commitment, whether it will be able to complete the reform process. This is not an unjustified question, given how much the policy of referral has damaged Italy. I am not talking about postponements of weeks or months: I am talking about the decades-long delays in public debt reduction policies, the solution to the crisis of tax evasion and avoidance, the defence of cultural goods and the landscape, the renewal of public school, the modernisation of public services. And again, Mr President, I am talking about delays in the reform of the public administration, actions to combat oligarchies, serious regulation of the conflict of interest. For years - again - we have postponed widely shared decisions on limited changes to the Constitution, such as the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the revision of the perfect bicameralism and the correction of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, with great respect for the autonomy, President Calderoli. What has changed so that we can say that the policy of postponement will no longer be ours? Here is what has changed: while we were standing still and falling back on ourselves, the world has changed, and those who do not understand it are destined to succumb. Today, the violence and the duration of the crisis, the speed of phenomena and unruly globalisation tell us that, if we are not able to find in ourselves, with the rapid pace of global change, the strength and ideas necessary to beat our diseases and vices, we will inexorably be destined to lose sovereignty and reduce the standard of living and levels of social security. In a word, we will be destined to a rapid, violent and dangerous decline. I say this to my friend Senator Tocci: the defense of democracy by the Democratic Party is out of the question. But so is the urgency of finding right and effective solutions to our very serious problems. And I share the analysis of President Finocchiaro: it would be very, very risky if the idea that Parliament is useless became common sense in the country. And I also say this, with great respect, to the 5 Star Movement: I am not shocked by the protests in this House; I am concerned at the feeling that our House is not preconceived as a place of debate but merely as a political confrontation. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups]] There are aspects of the new constitutional legislation, which we will shortly be approving at first reading, which have a significant political significance. The Committee of Deputies and Senators, which is jointly responsible for drawing up amendments to the Constitution, expresses, precisely because of its mixed composition, an explicit adoption of the limits of bicameralism designed in 1947 by the constituent Fathers. And on this point we need a reflection: not on the bicameralism that in 1947 was chosen with much wisdom, but on its actuality today, after almost seventy years, in a very different historical phase politically, economically and socially. But here we enter the field of content, on which we have to wait for the Committee's answers, starting - I repeat again - from those on the functions of Chamber and Senate, on the number of parliamentarians and on Title V. The text approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs provides for a very special composition of the Committee: its members will be identified according to the double criterion of the size of the Groups and the number of votes obtained on the lists. Never before had it happened that a parliamentary committee was not composed, in accordance with Article 72 of the Constitution, according to the proportion of the parliamentary groups. (16.42) (ZANDA followed). The Democratic Party has given its consent to this change, thus renouncing its legitimate right to be represented in relation to its parliamentary strength. I do not remember any cases in which other groups behaved in the same way. But all the senators, not only of the Democratic Party, are fully aware of the serious reasons which, in these circumstances, impose an exceptional violation of the necessary proportionality which governs the composition of the Commissions in Parliament; and the reason lies in the very serious distorting consequences that the "porcellum" is producing to our democracy and that the Democratic Party does not want to have any effect on the process of revision of the Constitution. Mr President, electoral laws are formally ordinary laws, but in essence they have indisputable constitutional value. A good Constitution (and ours is) can lose much of its democratic strength by a misguided electoral law, out of the principles of a completed democracy. That is why, at the time when a debate opens in Parliament on the amendment of certain limited parts of the Constitution, on behalf of the Senators of the Democratic Party, I address the entire Senate to ask that at the same time an absolute priority be given to the urgent amendment of the current electoral law. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Colucci]] which has already had ruinous effects and which we cannot risk being forced to use again. I know the objection that electoral laws follow and do not precede the reforms on the state and Parliament's set-up. It is such a sacrosanct principle that we would have been told that Italy would have benefited greatly if today those of this principle had taken account of it even in 2005, when the "porcellum" was adopted by majority, for cold political calculation, without any change in the institutional structure. [[Applause from Senators Lepri and Pagliari]] We are in a very dangerous situation. It is the Italians who ask us unanimously to immediately repeal the "porcellum," clearly unconstitutional in the power of choice taken from the voters, in the abnormal award awarded without conditions, in the different systems between the House and the Senate that determine different majorities. We're seriously late. Senators, we do not use the alibi of the long time of the reform process to condemn Italy to the humiliation of the worst electoral law in Europe, totally alien to the legal and democratic culture of our Republic. The President of the Republic, a few days ago, rightly stressed the need for our country to regain confidence in itself. The widespread lack of confidence, beginning with that of the Italians with regard to politics, is one of the elements that weakens us most in the face of the difficulties: distrust of the citizens in their capacity but also, and much earlier, distrust of politics and mistrust in Parliament. Let's be clear. As long as Parliament does not take seriously the unanimous request of the Italians to repeal the 'porcellum', we senators and our fellow Members will have no opportunity to expect their trust. The Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u58	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u59	Minzolini (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is a pact in which the representatives of a people accept a system of values, rules, rules and guarantees in the respect and in the interest of the citizens. It is a simplified definition, but it serves to make me understand what is for me the hypocrisy behind this yet another attempt to modernise our Constitutional Charter and that risks becoming the original sin, the gap that can determine its usefulness. Why am I talking about hypocrisy? Because, while we are talking about rules here, the judiciary, or rather part of it, tries to redesign the Italian political system, eliminating one of the popular representations with a series of investigations and trials in which the rules are bent to this end. But this is just one of the contradictions - to put it mildly - of our judicial system. The chronicles, even the most recent ones, are rich in examples: the controversial affair of Ilva has put in crisis a city; the condemnation of seismologists who did not foresee the earthquake of L'Aquila has put in crisis the Civil Protection; in Milan - news of today - a rapist did not go to jail because a judge, one year after the sentence, had not yet written the reasons. And again, one of the reasons why large foreign groups do not invest in Italy is because there is no legal certainty: a crime that is not prosecuted in Rome is prosecuted in Milan; a crime that is prosecuted in Naples is not prosecuted in Siena. More than a justice system is a lottery. I mean, our justice is sick. Some may not even share this reading of the facts, contest it, say it is not objective or even denounce it as a mystification. What cannot be done, and which certainly cannot be done by a ruling class, is to accept a downward compromise, either out of ignorance or lack of courage. To decide, that is, that argument, that is, the limits and distortions that affect the judiciary, should not be touched on and does not concern the legislator, despite being conditioned on a daily basis. Just read last Sunday's editorial by Galli della Loggia on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) - good last, since there are not few who have said so for years - to discover that what we are putting together is an incongruity. Galli della Loggia discovers in some ways the egg of Columbus, that in our country Government and Parliament have only the power to propose, but that lobbyies, bureaucracy and judicial power can exercise a power of veto over their decisions and condemn the country to immobilism. Well, by deciding not to address the judicial issue in constitutional reform, not to update rules that are now written only on paper, but that have been reinterpreted in practice, in order to support the growing protagonism of this power, we risk legitimizing this right of veto. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Minzolini: time is running out. Minzolini (PdL). Yes, Mr. President. With this sin of omission, we codify it, we accept that that power is untouchable, that it is made up of untouchables, that are not equal, but above the legislative power and the will of the people: a sort of caste, precisely - the real caste - on which we cannot legislate in Parliament, but only perhaps through referendums, which, in fact, is the sign of an institutional impotence. We are therefore changing the form of State and Government in the name of great hypocrisy, and all you can ask me less than to be a hypocrite. That is why I shall abstain from the final vote. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Barani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u60	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of constitutional bill No 813, in the amended text, with the following title: "Institution of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional and Electoral Reforms" with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be entitled to make any changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in first resolution. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups]] The constitutional bill No 343 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u61	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-65.ana.u62	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 15 July, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.54 p.m.
