ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pizzetti, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 10 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.40).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u4	I would like to inform you that Parliament is convened at 10 a.m. on Thursday 18 April with the following agenda: 'Electing the President of the Republic'.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u5	I note that the commemoration of Teresa Mattei, scheduled for today's sitting, will take place on another date in the presence of family members. The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 30 April. It was agreed to postpone to another date the election of two Secretary Senators, pursuant to Article 5, paragraphs 2-a and 2-b of the Rules of Procedure, already scheduled for the afternoon sitting of tomorrow. At the end of today's sitting, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will meet to examine proposals for transitional arrangements for the integration of the Presidency Council into the 17th legislature. In the afternoon sitting tomorrow the secret ballot will take place by electronic procedure on the resignation repeated by Senator Giovanna Mangili. Senator Mangili has declared her willingness to make known to the Assembly the reasons for her resignation. Tomorrow afternoon the Assembly will not hold session, in relation to the obligations connected with the convening of Parliament in common session for the election of the President of the Republic. Therefore, the planned debate on post earthquake reconstruction in Abruzzo and Emilia-Romagna will be included in an information that the Government will make on the topic on Wednesday 24 April. Next week, in the afternoon and afternoon sessions of Wednesday 24 April, will be discussed: the proposal possibly drafted by the Board for the Rules, for whose approval is necessary the absolute majority of the members of the Assembly; the motion on the institution of the Committee for Italians issues abroad; the information of the Government on the reconstruction post earthquake in Abruzzo and Emilia-Romagna. The Conference of Leaders also agreed to refer the examination of the 2013 Economic and Financial Document to the Special Commission. The discussion in the Assembly will take place at the afternoon sessions on Monday 29 and the afternoon sessions on Tuesday 30 April. The debate was devoted to the allocation of time between the groups. Motions for resolutions must be tabled before the end of the general discussion; amendments to the resolution accepted by the Government within one hour of the opinion being delivered.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00007 (text 2), tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, on the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. I call Senator Tonini to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, representative of the Government, I would like to ask the House for critical attention to this proposal, which is being made, because it is a proposal, so to speak, against the climate we are experiencing - I am talking about the political climate in the country - which calls on the institutions to reduce the bodies, the Commissions and the general costs of politics. On the other hand, we are asking here - with the motion that President Zanda has as his first signatory, but which then has as its further signatories the Presidents of all the groups in this House - to set up a new Commission. The motion calls for the establishment of a new Commission, so to speak, by violating the Occam razor principle, for which entity does not sunt multiplecanda praeter necessatem, and by going against the proposal that the so-called Committee of Wise Men, set up by the President of the Republic on 31 March, makes in its final report. In Chapter III, paragraph 18 (g), one of the important proposals of the working group is that of reducing the number of standing committees from 14 to 9. We are in the age of spending review, so all the structures and articulations of the State - including institutions like ours, and therefore the constitutional bodies (the Presidency of the Republic, the Constitutional Court and the Chambers) - are required to do better with less: less resources, less structures and less use of bodies, therefore also less use of economic resources. The motion we are debating is in contrast. Therefore, the motivation that drives us, in order to go against the wind that blows in the country that is largely justified, must be strong, and on this point I ask attention from the House. In the short time allocated to me for the illustration of motion No 7 (text 2) I will try to explain that the reason why an exception (which cannot become the rule, because not for every subject we can set up a special Commission) is that there are strong reasons. We are calling for the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights to be renewed. Motion No. 7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Zanda, seems to me that arguments this necessity convincingly, first of all referring to the Italian Constitution which in Article 2 solemnly states that "The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man." Therefore, the culture of human rights is a foundation, a fundamental pillar of the Republic. More modestly, but in implementing this principle solemnly stated in our Constitution, there is a well-established tradition of Committees, then become Commissions, established on this important subject. In fact, a Committee against the Death Penalty was set up in the 13th legislature to deal with a very precise and very specific profile of the universe of human rights, which in the 14th and 16th legislature became an extraordinary Commission on Human Rights and a special Commission in the 15th. So we are dealing with a constitutional foundation and a parliamentary tradition. However, I believe that these alone would not be sufficient arguments to justify such a demanding and counter-tendant decision. There is another, however, in my view, decisive, that is illustrated in the motion and that is an argument that has to do with what I like to define a change of paradigm that has been in place for some time in international politics. We could say that from an absolutist conception, Hobbesian - pass me the term - of the sovereignty of States, with the necessary corollary that has prevailed for centuries and that for centuries has been one of the foundations of international politics and that is the corollary of the principle of non-interference, so woe to ingest oneself in the internal affairs of a country (and human rights were considered an internal matter in which not to ingest oneself) is passing in a way more decisive, even if with the long times that the great changes involve, and yet with times that are gradually accelerating, to a conception instead relative of sovereignty. We could call it a Kantian concept of sovereignty as a shared status which increasingly requires mutual legitimacy of consensus between States. In order to exercise sovereignty, therefore, it needs the consent not only internally but also of the international community. But there are deviant behaviors that seriously violate human rights within individual states and undermine the legitimacy and legitimacy of States in the international community. No state can escape this verification, this control. All countries, all states are subject to international community verification against standards that are commonly recognised and guaranteed at international level. No one can give lessons to others, no one can escape a verification by others because of the way in which they actually respect and promote human rights. The arguments raised by this Commission in previous years make it clear that this body is so important. In subsequent legislation - we read in the motion - the priorities were the abolition of the death penalty in the world (and in this regard we know that there has been a great success of our diplomacy, of the political action of Italy with the moratorium on the death penalty approved in 2007 by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 2007); the introduction into our legal system of the torture crime (as opposed to which we must instead register a impasse, because we have not yet managed to introduce in our legal system in a convincing, serious and therefore credible way the crime of torture); the protection of the rights of the child; the guarantees for those deprived of freedoms, in particular prisoners; the promotion and implementation of the right of asylum; the fight against trafficking in human beings; the fight against racism, xenophobia, discrimination of minorities; the prohibition of female genital mutilation. These are the arguments, Mr President, on which we are asking, as signatories to the motion which, I repeat, is signed by all the groups, beginning with their respective presidents, to decide on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, made up of 25 members because of the size of the groups themselves. The Commission, which of course elects its Bureau, has tasks of study, observation and initiative, for which it can contact institutions from other countries and international bodies and so on. I believe that on a subject like this one can and must make an important exception to a line, which I believe we must all share and assume together, which certainly goes in the direction of simplifying our internal life in the Senate. However, in the face of such an important issue, I believe that we need an instrument that maintains and preserves a tradition that has honored and I believe it can continue to honour the Senate of the Republic and the Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Cardiello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u8	I take this opportunity to greet the students of the ENAIP Vocational Training Centre in Tione, in the province of Trento. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u9	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] In this session, dedicated to the theme of human rights, the emotional thought of the Senate Assembly goes to the victims and the serious wounded of the tragic attack that struck the city of Boston during a peaceful marathon. In firmly condemning this monstrous crime, I invite the Senate Assembly to observe a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u10	I declare the debate open. Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, my fellow senators, it is true that in certain respects - and Mr Tonini has explained them - this proposal may appear to be in conflict with the specific importance of the Committee of Wise Men which has operated in recent days and which looks forward to reducing the number of Commissions. However, it is equally true that, from the point of view of the history of the Senate, the proposal for the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, rather than in countertrend, is in absolute and clear continuity with previous experiences. I recall that already in the 14th legislature an extraordinary Commission for the protection and promotion of human rights was established, presided over with great prestige by my colleague Pianetta; this same Commission was also established in the last legislature, under the presidency of my colleague Marcenaro. These two experiences have given us the feeling, not so much of the opportunity to trace back to the culture of human rights in the Republican Constitution, but rather - narrowing the field - to trace back to culture and sensitivity to human rights in international politics. From this point of view I have the impression that the reference ground is at least thirty years after the time of our Constitution. I am referring to the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, to the so-called third basket, to human rights, for which the Human Rights Committees, the Sakharov Committees, operated in the West, which many interpreters of the most realistic currents - Mr Tonini would say more Hobbesian - seemed to condemn themselves to failure and utopianism. It was thanks to the Helsinki Conference that the issue of human rights has entered international politics. In this respect, unlike Mr Zanda's motion, I would not refer so much to the United Nations Assembly, but rather to two specific international organisations, certainly within the United Nations system: the OSCE (Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe), which was founded on the very roots of the Helsinki Conference (CSCE), and the old Council of Europe. These two international organisations are specifically sensitive and dedicated to the issue of human rights. The call to the United Nations instead leads us off the road, my colleague Mr Tonini, because at that time - or rather shortly afterwards - when the United Nations, for reasons we later learned, took the shadow of Kurt Waldheim (which, I remind my colleague Calderoli, was blackmailed from the right, and therefore carried the orientation, let's say, far too far to the left) was born an Assembly and procedures, especially in the matter of human rights, often polluted by anti-Semitism, or at least by what, with great elegance, our current Head of State defined that anti-Zionism that is often true and proper anti-Semitism. In my opinion, therefore, the references in the international community must be sought in the two organizations that I have just mentioned and, therefore, in their parliamentary assemblies, at least in the Italian component that we will elect in the coming days. Of course, it is a question of whether it is sufficient to justify the establishment of an ad hoc Commission, which would become, also on the basis of the previous chaired by my colleagues Marcenaro and Pianetta, a specialist sector of our Commission for Foreign Affairs, Immigration. If we want to give a wider spectrum, then we must find a regulatory welding and bring to that Commission the places where human rights, from the constitutional point of view, are heard and on which the Senate can intervene and the Government is required to respond in the inspection union. We cannot therefore leave out the condition of our prisons and so many other issues which Mr Tonini bravely recalled after the abolition of the death penalty and that, not yet completely successful in our system, of the abolition of torture through the prediction of a specific crime. I do not know whether, from this point of view, we are able to ensure that the Human Rights Commission, however prestigious (we have had important feelings, with high international personalities), is not crushed by the daily and weekly rhythm of the other Commissions of merit, risking becoming one of those Commissions in which it is always difficult, between 14.30 and 15, to find a sufficient number of listeners for the international personality that has been convened. Therefore, our Group is overall in favour, in continuity with what the Commissions chaired by Senators Pianetta and Marcenaro have done in previous legislatures. However, we allow ourselves to suggest to the Presidency that it should also be possible for a regulatory welding, which, at least in terms of the response to the inspection union, makes this Commission something a bit wider than a sector, perhaps the third sector, of our Foreign Affairs Commission. [[Applause from the LAG and PdL Groups and Senator Tonini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u12	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Mixed Left, Ecology and Freedom Group very much shares the need to set up an extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, independently - I would like to say - from the opinion expressed by the wise men (and, by making a joke, I would say that not all the proposals of the wise men are always wise). I think that it is very important for this House to note that, already in recent legislation, significant attention has been paid to this issue and that specific and comprehensive action has been taken which we consider useful and important. In the same way, we also express a positive view of that openness to civil society, to non-governmental organisations and to the associationism that has been recalled in the motion and that allows us today to have an organic and not occasional approach to the matter. We would also like to add another fact that the Mixed Left Group, Ecology and Freedom considers almost a fundamental value of its own conception of politics, according to which the quality of democracy of a country is measured first of all by how the weakest are considered and treated: prisoners, immigrants, sick people and children, that is, all those people who live in a condition of suffering or in any case of diversity or difficulties. Of course we recognize that over the course of these years some things have been done. The battle that Italy also saw was cited as the protagonist of the UN General Assembly's approval of the resolution on the moratorium on the death penalty in the world. But we think that in our country the road is still long enough to talk about a real substantial democracy in this area and that, indeed, sometimes, they are unbearable inadequacy. We also think, in this regard, that it has certainly been a result of the Commission in the past years, namely the adaptation of our legal system to the principles contained in the Statute of the International Criminal Court, but that this adjustment has been not only late, but also incomplete, in particular - it has been recalled - due to the failure to include in our legal system some of the offences included in the statute but not in our country, where it is absent, as has already been said, for example the crime of torture. It would have been necessary, from this point of view, to fully respect international obligations, as well as to improve the Italian legal civilization itself, to act as France did, which amended the penal code to include certain crimes, including those against humanity, or the United Kingdom. In short, all this to say that there is still a long way to go and that it is still along the way to ensure that our democracy can be freed from all those conditions, often thought of as an emergency regime, which have, however, caused unacceptable situations from the point of view of the rights of the person. Think of certain provisions of the Italian law, such as that relating to the penitentiary regime provided for in Article 41-a of Law No 354 of 1975, on which I will return more widely, than the revision of which - in our opinion - would require courage and determination, and at least the opening of a debate, given the enormous concerns it raises from the point of view of the protection of the rights of prisoners. I would remind you here that this provision is not reflected in many other laws, especially because the isolation regime appears to be in conflict with various international acts protecting human rights. In addition, of course, the living conditions of prisoners in Italian prisons, which have also recently been the subject of an inspection by our parliamentary groups, whose atavistic overcrowding has long been considered contrary to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms by the Court of Strasbourg. In essence, it would be - in our opinion - to imagine the work of this Commission as a propaedeutic to a higher idea of democracy, without forgetting, as has been authoritatively stated in this very House in the past, that human rights, civil and political, are now part of a single family, where rights are understood as all those pertaining to the human person. That is why we would like to make a number of points for reflection, starting with the parliamentary initiative that we have built these days, which we no longer believe can be postponed. They are at least two. The first point that we would like to share in this House is - as I mentioned earlier - the possibility of introducing the crime of torture into our system, precisely in our penal code. We have tabled a legislative proposal to this effect, in order to fill a particularly serious gap in our legal system in our view. In fact, despite the legislative initiative of the past years, there has not yet been an approval by the Chambers. The rule would be a significant step to clarify clearly the limits of the exercise of force and the use of public authorities in relation to investigative or police requirements. We have also noted that the introduction of such a rule is particularly important in a country like ours, which just over ten years ago witnessed, in the massacre of Genoese days, that authentic suspension of democracy, with the repeated violation of human rights, denounced also by Amnesty International, which unfortunately has continued to occur in many dramatic episodes even during the decade. Several associations, as we know, have called for the rapid adoption of a law to comply with an international commitment that has been undesired for 25 years. The United Nations Convention against Torture, approved in 1984 by the UN General Assembly and ratified by Italy following the adoption of Law No 498 of 1988, provides for an international legal obligation concerning the introduction of the torture offence into the penal code. This has been repeatedly called for by the Human Rights Committee and the Committee established by the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Penalty or Treatment, signed in Strasbourg in 1987. Despite this, however, and despite the ratification of the Convention against Torture signed in New York in 1984, the Italian legislator did not consider it necessary to introduce a specific criminal case into our legal system. We believe that the time has come to remedy this delay and we believe that the extraordinary Commission can make a significant contribution on this subject, just as we think that, President, at least in terms of opening a debate, the Commission that we are going to set up can make an effort on an issue that is often considered taboo, also because of the type of crime to which it refers that, as is clear, it is particularly serious and unbearable, namely the crime of the mob. I am talking about a subject that I have already mentioned, namely article 41- bis of the penitentiary order: the so-called hard prison, introduced in Italy, as we know, after the massacre of 1992, in which John Falcone, Francesca Morvillo and the three escort agents lost their lives. Of course, we are well aware that this is a very sensitive subject, with respect to which the arguments that led to the introduction of this same article, not least of course the effectiveness of the fight against the Mafia, but we believe that the time is ripe to start a discussion on this subject, starting from the fact that 41-bis itself, when it was launched, was imagined as a transitional and emergency instrument, and only later, in 2002, it was made permanent even to widen the cases of offences that could be committed in hard prison. We believe that the extraordinary Commission should investigate the limitations of this legislation, which, as we know, also deprives the prisoner of some basic, fundamental rights, even simply the choice of books he would like to read in prison. We also know that this type is viewed negatively by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and the European Court of Human Rights. Finally, we would like to remind you that since 1992 - think - the frequency of suicides in prisons of prisoners under the regime of 41- bis is estimated at three to four times higher than the rest of the population excluded. Without forgetting, however, that the instrument under discussion is also in use for prisoners awaiting trial, who may then be innocent in court. In short, there are many arguments to be able at least to start a discussion. We hope that the Commission will make a significant contribution to this. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u14	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the previous speakers. There has been talk of counter-trend or continuity with the Commission which has already been in operation in the past parliamentary term. I personally consider this Commission to be indispensable. The motion before us deals with human rights, an issue which is never as topical and binding as it is at present, and which is why, as I will announce in the conclusions, I believe that there can and should not be any kind of opposition. Human rights are such simply because of the fact that you are human beings, and therefore compete with the individual. The right is seen as a privilege, but if we place it within the sphere of human rights it becomes fundamental, because human rights are fundamental - I repeat - for the simple fact that we are human beings: they are not a privilege that can be denied on the basis of the whim of anyone. Human rights are natural, because they are common to all individuals since birth. They are universal, because they are identical for all individuals, without the destination of sex, ethnicity, culture, religion, political opinion, national or social origin. They are indivisible, as they are meant not to be separable: freedom, security and justice are guaranteed only if all human rights are protected. They are inalienable, because they cannot be taken away from any person. Human rights, Mr President, are preserved for the rest of their lives. Human rights are now guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948. It concerns all the people of the world, not only Italy and Europe, without distinction. The entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty marked a further step towards a better guarantee of human rights in Europe thanks, inter alia, to the recognition of the binding value of the Charter of Nice on the fundamental rights of the European Union and the anticipation of the accession of the Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In this regard, the European Union has allocated several million euros to ensure the protection of human rights against the death penalty, torture, violence against children, the protection of children, women's rights, freedom of expression, trafficking in human beings, the rights of persons belonging to minorities, etc. The European Union rightly attaches fundamental importance to respect for human rights, among other things, and the European Agency implements control over respect for human rights. We know that, within the Union, we can count on varying levels of judgment, among other things, up to the European Court of Human Rights, but we also know that, despite the considerable achievements achieved, the path to achieving the same results at international level is still difficult and difficult. It is also obvious, Mr President, that beyond a situation of universally accepted principle, the same attention must also be applied within each individual State by creating an entity that guarantees and works in cooperation with the European Union. Mr President, those who support human rights agree that about seventy years have passed since the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but it is still a dream to be fulfilled in many parts of the world. Reports indicate that human rights are violated and that individuals are tortured or abused in at least 80 countries, face summary and unjust trials in at least 50 countries and are limited in their freedom of expression in at least 75 countries. In particular, it is women and children who are marginalized in various ways. The press is not free and the dissenter is silenced. It is estimated that, only during the 2007 armed conflicts in Afghanistan, at least 6,500 people were killed, of which more than half were non-combatant civilians killed by the rebels, and in many cases in suicide attacks by armed groups. In the same year, in Brazil, the police killed about 1,300 people, for acts considered to be "resistant" (they indicated this wording). In Uganda, 1,500 people die every week in refugee camps, where about 50,000 people are estimated to have died. It certainly is not better in Vietnam, where 75,000 people, between prostitutes and drug addicts, have been interned in some kind of concentration camps, because they are considered dangerous for society, and they have not been given any kind of treatment. Although improvements have been made in recent years, human rights violations are still a global scourge. You are of particular importance, Mr President, to education in human rights. Many people know only some of their rights: the right to food, the right to a place to live, the right not to be tortured, not to be judged or arrested unjustly. What about all the other rights, Mr. President? The scope of human rights is very wide, and when you do not know your human rights, you can be abused by discrimination, intolerance, injustice and slavery. In this regard, the United Nations General Assembly has proposed that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights be disseminated, read and explained especially in schools and schools. In March 2011, the Human Rights Council unanimously approved the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights Education, a very important work in which Italy played a leading role. Mr President, it must also be pointed out, however, that in the face of these very important statements at European level, there are many major scandals affecting human dignity and hindering the enjoyment of human rights, including through social issues, poverty, unemployment and other forms of social exclusion. This inevitably leads to conflicts, and conflicts trample upon the dignity of people. The excellent work of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, chaired by Senator Marcenaro in the last parliamentary term, was evident to me, in line with what has been indicated and proposed in the motion we are debating, for all the reasons I have explained so far. I firmly believe, Mr President, that it is also necessary to set up a body in this legislature which represents for this State the will to defend and develop human rights, not only in our country and in the European Union, but also outside these borders. It calls for and hopes that a dedicated body will become a permanent institution in Parliament. In conclusion, Mr President, I would also like to say that the Commission is certainly not only of use to this House, but above all to this country. Crystalizing ideas and acts indispensable for the development of civil life seems to us as indispensable and binding as ever. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr De Mistura, we are very pleased to take the floor today on the issue of human rights, because the recognition of human dignity is a fundamental guide for the development of democracy. We are convinced, in fact, that it is from respect for man and his intrinsic dignity that we must start, in order to guarantee the defence and promotion of related rights. He remembered Eleanor Roosevelt: "Where do universal human rights begin?" And he said, In small places close to home, so close and so small that they cannot be seen on any map of the world. But they are the world of every single person: the neighborhood where you live, the school attended, the factory, the farm, the office where you work. These are the places where every man, woman or child seeks equal justice, equal opportunity, equal dignity without discrimination. And he concluded: If these rights have no meaning there, they have little meaning elsewhere. Unfortunately, we still have to register in our families, in our cities, in our streets, in our places of work, in prisons, domestic violence, acts of racism and xenophobia, inhuman and degrading treatment, violations of human dignity, in which we often react with detachment and impassibility. And I would add again: lives violated, lives denied, lives denied to the future. Looking at our country, the so-called feminicide, a real social scourge - to mention only a few current phenomena - comes to the eye: more than a hundred cases every year, according to statistics, which represent only the tip of an iceberg: 901 victims since 2005. It should be recalled that on 27 September 2012, Minister Fornero, after the united motion approved by the Senate, signed on behalf of the Government the Convention of the Council of Europe on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, open to signature in Istanbul on 11 May 2011, which today constitutes the most comprehensive international treaty to address the phenomenon of violence against women. Our responsibility is to take a position on a subject of such dramatic topicality and of unquestionable social repercussions. In addition, in Italy we are witnessing, to this day, manifestations of xenophobia linked to the phenomenon of migration. They deserved the efforts of the Monti Government with the establishment of the Ministry for Cooperation and Integration, which gave dignity to political and institutional interventions that for too long had not had the right importance. Recent episodes of violence, and not only, question us: Senegalese citizens killed in Florence; Roma camps burned down; false rape complaints from girls. I remember the torn territories of Castel Volturno and Rosarno. How not to remember then, after having seen the emergency in North Africa, all the problems that today we live in that reality, connected rather to the end of the reception, running the risk that, failing the integration paths, thousands of human lives will be delivered to the road and violence. The Arab Spring has shown us that democracy cannot be exported and that human rights and the rule of law can only spring from the will of peoples; however, if not fed, these movements that claim respect for fundamental freedoms risk regressing into nationalist and extremist drifts or stifling in blood. These interjections, coming from social realities often very degraded, respond to a slogan used many times and which, in this reality, I think is not inappropriate: "Your silence is killing us" (your silence is killing us). However, the international community's response to human rights crises has never been, as in the Middle East and North Africa, so marked by fear and reluctance. As long as we do not understand that immigration can really be a resource for growth and that a real fight against irregular immigration is proper management of regular immigration, and we will not stop feeding feelings of fear for the other, violence will escalate as in the darkest periods of our history. We open our horizons to welcome and to common-union. In other words, stability of immigration and integration are factors that make Europe more united and competitive. I think it is right in this House to echo once again the spirit of Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and must act toward one another in a spirit of brotherhood. Another area, absolutely not secondary, as has just been mentioned, is that of prison overcrowding. Suicides in prison are undoubtedly the representation of the fact that the present conditions of life in prisons undermine the very principle of reeducational function of the punishment and threaten the degree of civilization of our country. Here too, in our very civilized Italy, more could and should be done for the protection of the human rights of prisoners. And we recognise that, precisely thanks to the impetus of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, important goals have been achieved in the last parliamentary term. More than sixty years after its proclamation, however, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which affirms the principle of the defence of the dignity of human beings, the foundation and primary objective to be achieved in the sphere of international relations and beyond the sovereignty of individual States, in some respects represents a utopia, we could say a non-reality. In fact, while the meaning of human rights has been greatly extended, up to now it covers not only the rights linked to respect for human life and the prerogatives associated with the development of his personality, but also social rights and collective rights, on the other hand, the violations of fundamental rights are increasing: restrictions on freedom of expression in at least 91 countries; abuse and torture in at least 101 countries; death sentences carried out in 21 countries; death sentences issued in 63 countries; at least 19,000 prisoners in the arms of death; at least 55 armed groups and government forces enlisting children as soldiers or auxiliary. Every year 500,000 people die of acts of armed violence, millions are human beings whose lives have been denied due to demographic policies. Last but not least, I would like to mention Article 18 of the Declaration of Human Rights, which states: Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. Even this right, alas, is not recognized and respected everywhere. Persecution and oppression of Christians in the world are recurrent: out of 100 people who are persecuted worldwide because of their religious faith, 80 are Christians; out of 100 people who are killed worldwide because of their beliefs, 75 are Christians. Even today we are forced to register Christianphobia phenomena in at least 50 countries in the world; among them: Nigeria Egypt, Libya, Syria, Iraq, India, Pakistan, North Korea, Saudi Arabia. In the world, the Christian testifies to human freedom and freedom for all, pursues activities for humanitarian purposes in favour of the local people who are in dramatic social and economic conditions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, for these reasons, this is the best opportunity in this House today to call for dialogue, interrelationship, reciprocity, common union: the foundations which are precisely the basis for the constitution of the Commission under consideration. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u18	Senator Cardiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a very sensitive and important issue, which we have already completed halfway through the last parliamentary term: the one relating to the Extraordinary Commission on Human Rights. Well, already in the previous parliamentary term this Commission has worked well, so much so that we have achieved significant results, having meetings at international level. The Commission's priorities in the past legislature have been the abolition of the death penalty in the world (we have distinguished ourselves in this battle, together, all the parliamentary groups, making a whole, in this House and in the Commission) and the introduction into our legal system of torture (we have made some progress, but we still need many, we will continue to do so). Mr President, in the previous parliamentary term this Commission was regarded as a B-series. We appeal to your sense of state, to the commitment you have made in the past. I listened a moment ago to my colleagues who highlighted the problems of prison facilities, the problems of the child. I do not want to make any controversy, but the issues relating to prison structures certainly cannot be dealt with by the Extraordinary Commission on Human Rights; there are other forums for further discussion. The penitentiaries - you teach me this - belong to the competence of the Ministry of Justice, they have their seat in the Justice Commission. For the problems of the child there is a bicameral commission dealing with childhood. It has escaped someone who today are thousands of children who are taken away from families, who are taken away from a parent and locked up in family homes; and there are important businesses for these family homes. If we want to focus on the rights established by law and the Constitution, we must say that this Commission must look to 360 degrees at the rights of everyone, of every person. Therefore, it cannot focus on penitentiary law or the right of any individual; we must look at the rights in general and the universal rights of the person. It is time for human rights budgets. Sixty years have passed since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the text that marked a turning point in the international community. But it is difficult to make budgets, because that of human rights is a complex and very rich subject of political, legal and social implications. The human rights revolution was a silent but profound revolution in the international community, which began with the famous message at the Congress of President Roosevelt of 6 January 1941. On that occasion he strongly proclaimed the four fundamental freedoms (freedom of conscience, freedom of religion, freedom from need and freedom from fear) which were to be recognized not only in the few democratic states that existed then, but throughout the world. Since then, the culture of human rights has slowly changed international institutions and relations and urged from above a profound transformation of political and social regimes, also eradicating consolidated myths, including that of the reserved domination of each state, in which no one else could ingest himself, a myth which only China remains clinging to. Today the prophetic concept of Kant has been realized: the violation of a right in a country is felt as such in every other part of the world. Therefore, all states, and perhaps even non-state groups, are entitled to demand respect for human rights from any government. The distinction between a citizen and a foreigner has been overwhelmed. There is now only the human person, a beautiful concept that we owe above all to the Catholic personalism of Mounier and Maritain. The United States is among the very few states that continue to cling to that archaic distinction. The old dogma that made sovereign states the only subjects of the international community died. Today individuals also have a say, although to a reduced and variable extent depending on the geographic area of the planet. Another innovation: the international society, first based on the concept that each State is in practice bound only by the norms it has approved (each State is a legislator of itself), has seen the emergence of some supreme constitutional principles, including the prohibition of genocide, slavery, torture and racial discrimination. These prohibitions, which form the so-called jus cogens, cannot be exempted from agreements between two or more States. They therefore limit the normative power of every international subject, hierarchizing the law in the name of the protection of human rights and peace. It is for these reasons that the People of Freedom joined the initiative together with all the other parliamentary groups, fully signing the establishment of the Commission. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u20	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u21	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the recognition of human rights is the starting point of all modern constitutionalism. From 1679, with the charter of the Habeas corpus, to 1789, with the famous, founded French Declaration of Human Rights and of the citizen, all the Constitutions that succeeded until the contemporary age developed and integrated them, with different inspirations and accents. In the twentieth century they took body from the rubble of the two world wars. Already after the first, the so-called Wilsonism and the Society of Nations attempted, albeit with very poor results, a culture of collaboration, economic aid and self-determination of peoples. But it is with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, which was previously recalled, that the answers to the four freedoms already stated by Roosevelt (of speech, worship, need and fear) are found. I agree with Senator Comrade on the importance of the other major scans, such as the Helsinki Conference and the Sakharov Committees, but that Declaration remains the foundation to which we refer. This is without contradicting the reasoning he made earlier, which valued institutions such as the OSCE or the Council of Europe. The 1948 Declaration remains important because it arose from the concern not to allow the horrors of totalitarianism to be repeated, and in this way it challenged all the concerns and tensions of the Cold War. It is extraordinary and very high principles, the value of which, increased over time, has gradually become more and more topical - we know, for having already heard it - until the years following the Kosovo war and the genocide in Rwanda. In order to reach us, after this very rapid and synthetic historical excursus, I believe that a moment of crisis as acute as that which the whole of the West is going through, similar to the twentieth century post-war period, to which it looks very much, unfortunately invests not only the economic plan, but the very foundations of our coexistence: in this framework so dramatically similar to those years of the 1900s, the theme of human rights must therefore come out of the rhetoric of good intentions. The absolute priority of every human life, to be protected and safeguarded for the sole fact of being in the world, makes the world community as one, the only great family. In this way human rights undermine the traditional and absolute idea of national sovereignty, as well as that of a single and superior cultural identity. We have already heard this reasoning from previous speakers. I would just like to add - and then close on this point - that if human rights becomes a possible reading of globalisation (this is the novelty, which changes its nature) the culture of human rights is not only legal-constitutional, but increasingly historical, ethical and political. The question of human rights, in fact, has long since come out of the secondary and minor sphere which concerned extreme cases or limited persecution, to touch instead the moral and political heart of national cohabitations and of the entire planet. It has become to all intents and purposes - said Senator Tonini well - the theme on which one has been judged, on which a country is judged and on which the level of civilization and civilization is measured, no less than economic or anguish national issues. In this sense, sovereignty is limited and legitimacy is reciprocal: moreover, there is no more international economic or political agreement that does not include conditional clauses, that is to say, does not subordinate the agreement itself to respect for human rights. I am therefore very pleased with this agreement in wanting everyone to continue the practice of setting up a Commission on Human Rights, because it is not just about the international plan but also about the internal plan. One is credible in the demands that are being made outside, if one respects them - we first - inside: this is what gives credibility, and our Country God only knows if he absolutely needs credibility, at least how much he has of economic recovery. In conclusion, how can we ensure that these words do not remain rhetorical and that the Commission is not merely a flagship, which perhaps can also be regarded as plentiful and expensive? We can only succeed through a realistic, but also broad, approach, because the nature of human rights is not to identify with that of civil rights: they must be set aside, we must understand more precisely what they refer to, what nature they refer to. In fact, fogging becomes very improper historically and very ineffective politically, so it is necessary to delimit, to specify what must be understood today by human law and whether and how its nature has changed, in order to understand what is really essential in that search for a secular and shared humanism, of which we need more and more urgent. It is therefore a broader discourse than we have known from our fathers, together more realistic. Delimiting and clarifying what is meant by human rights is important, because they do not identify with civil rights tout court (and I have previously heard a great deal of confusion about it): not everything that is a just cause, it is a human right, and if we identify it in its truth, as it is today, we are also able to defend it more strongly. Returning, therefore, to the essential means protecting life in the first place. I am thinking, for example, of the genocide of female fetuses in the mother's womb in India and China, which reaches frightening proportions. I am thinking of the material conditions of life, the devastating poverty of vast areas of the world, but I am also thinking of the forms of real - I would say - animalization of the new urban poverty of our country: I am thinking of those fathers of families who I see - as I believe you too - as animals looking for in the dumpsters under the eyes of their children. These are the new rights. The substance of human rights is and remains, first of all, dignity: dignity in the new forms in which it is trampled. The dignity of the human being is essential, because it is the foundation of human rights. Dear colleagues, this is the foundation of the past which remains relevant. As previous speakers have reminded me, the Senate has an important history on the subject of human rights for broad reasons combined with the concreteness of the problems faced and the successes achieved, such as those relating to the death penalty and the way in which the rights of the child have changed. I am thinking of paedophilia, a subject which has already been addressed in the previous legislature, but also of organ trade, family houses, all mutilations and other horrors related to the commodification of the body. Then there is the complex issue of immigration, becoming more and more pressing, with the consequent modifications of the traditional relationship between jus sanguinis and jus soli. There are many others that I do not remember, because they have already been mentioned by my previous colleagues; intervening among the last, many things have already been said. Human rights, therefore, today do not only concern extreme cases, but allude to the construction of a new humanism - I insist on this - which has as its starting point and point of arrival human rights, rights that safeguard the dignity of the individual and of the person: a new humanism concrete and not rhetorical, secular and courageous, attentive to rights no less than duties, sensitive to their personal dimension and to community ties. Human rights understood not in an extensive sense, yet capable of distinguishing the new, always evolving. Violations that fall on the weak subjects to be protected, as the best bioethics teaches us: the one that is not previously blinded by opposite and complementary fundamentalisms, but that with a collaborative spirit is able to identify the violations on the body of women, children and the elderly, where life, at its rise and at its end, is more vulnerable. Those who, like you, ladies and gentlemen, have more experience of international relations than I do know that on these issues parliaments can be freer than governments, can find otherwise unthinkable convergences, without this having to mean little realism and too much abstraction of principles. In this sense both Senator Tonini and Senator Compagna are right: the first when he said it was a proposal in countertrend but, as Senator Compagna also said, in great, beautiful continuity with the work done by the Senate in the past. I would like to conclude with an appeal that is absolutely not rhetorical and that comes from my head and heart: let us prove that the hostilities and divisions of which politics shows can calm down in the name not of a politically correct conformist, because human rights are the home of goodness, but of an effective action on the things that unite us and that are really superior to those that divide us. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Albertini and D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u22	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great satisfaction that we note that the motion to set up an extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights is shared. The government strongly supports it. The work carried out in the past very well by both Senator Marcenaro and Mr Pianetta has helped us a lot with regard to foreign policy: Italy often raises the banner of human rights as one of the strong elements of its foreign policy. In 2014, the United Nations Human Rights Council will carry out an analysis of the situation in Italy, so having this extraordinary Commission will help us. As you have heard, we have other appointments besides that with the UN body, such as the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, as well as on the overpopulation of prisons, torture and even forced transfers. In conclusion, Mr President, there are times when being counter-trended in administrative terms can be easily explained and balanced with being perfectly in trend with international aspirations. If you are to set up this extraordinary Commission today (I understand unanimously) you will make a great contribution to the coherence and credibility of Italian foreign policy. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u24	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u27	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, illustrious representative of the Government, I will be brief because the arguments have already been widely put forward by my colleagues. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to express a positive opinion on this motion, because it is a very commendable initiative that we support with conviction. Some of the four reasons why we are in favour of this have already been expressed in the explanatory report by Mr Tonini, to which I refer. However, I would like to highlight a number of aspects. Firstly, as we know, this Commission, albeit with different denominations, is now part of the tradition of this Senate and its importance and scope of the issues dealt with have been growing in the course of previous legislation. So I think it is important that we continue with this practice. Perhaps it is also important to reiterate, as has already been mentioned, that with a view to a possible revision of the parliamentary regulations also in relation to the Commissions, as suggested by the working group of the so-called wise men, it would be desirable not only to transform it into a permanent Commission, but at least, if this is not accepted, to assign its functions to one of the permanent Commissions, adding in the name the mandate on human rights also for symbolic reasons. The second reason for our vote in favour - which is the most important - is of a strictly legal nature. As we know, Italy is part of all the major international instruments on human rights and for this reason it has extensive obligations in the submission of periodic reports for monitoring purposes. Among the many, I mention only the "Universal Periodic Review" in the UN, but also all the various conventions of a universal and regional nature. The parliamentary scrutiny and discussion of these reports can help to improve their quality a lot, which, unfortunately, sometimes (I say this also from direct experience) is very poor and does not honour the extensive work that is often done on the ground. An activity of relationship not well done does not help the image of Italy abroad, which is already compromised for other reasons. Moreover, a Commission on Human Rights is necessary for the internal monitoring of the state of human rights, which unfortunately presents, as other colleagues have already mentioned, serious shortcomings in this country, for example in terms of the condition of prisons, migrants, Roma and Sinti, women: they are all issues on which, unfortunately, Italy is often sentenced in court, with relative costs (it is worth remembering), or at least takes negative reports in the context of international monitoring. And this we could maybe Save it for us. In this respect, it is also important to open up civil society involvement, which this motion provides for, in line with international standards. The third reason is linked to social development, and this has perhaps not been sufficiently highlighted so far. It is widely demonstrated by human development studies that there is a very close correlation between the level of protection of human rights and the level of development, including economic development, of a society. Rights are not a luxury - we know that - but rather a saving; and when - very rarely - these rights have costs, they are valuable investments. It is settled case-law of the European Court of Human Rights that a democratic society is essentially based on two elements: respect for human rights and respect for the rule of law. Therefore, monitoring of these elements is essential for the quality of our democracy. To conclude, there is one final reason, which is a political reason, but also a hope: that the establishment of this Commission, on which there seems to be a unanimous consensus in this House and whose mandate - this is very important - is detached from any logic of relationship between majority and opposition, can also, at last, encourage the start of the work of the Permanent Commissions and give a good example of a work on content, not affected by political-party logic. That is also why the establishment of this Commission - hopefully, at least - would be a contribution to the democratic growth of this country. For these reasons, we are voting in favour of this motion. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI]] and M5S).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u30	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, I would like to avoid an encore. To a large extent, the debate has confirmed that favourable approach which I had already allowed myself to express, on behalf of my Group, during the debate. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the motion tabled - among others - and well illustrated by Mr Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u33	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of this motion by my group and to make a final comment on an issue which I am referring to at the end, but which is probably in the first place in order of importance. I am referring to the fact that, in our opinion, when we talk about human rights in our country, we must never forget to address all those in Italy, regardless of their nationality. Finally, after some dark years, so to speak, the criteria for the enlargement of citizenship to the children of immigrants born on the territory of the State are on the agenda; finally we talk about ius soli and ius domicilii; finally we address in an inclusive way hundreds of thousands of people who live in our country and who still do not have full powers and rights, guaranteed and payable. In conclusion, our hope is that a sad season in the history of this country can be definitively closed: the one in which muscular rhetoric prevailed, the tightening up of immigration policies and that fear of the illegal in which the law No. 94 of 2009 has materialized that, by inserting the crime of illegal immigration in our legal system (Article 10- bis of Legislative Decree 25 July 1998, n. 286), as we know, requires the competent authorities in the national territory to denounce the person defined as clandestine, i.e. the migrant who does not have a residence permit or who may have simply lost him. We hope that this too can be discussed within the Commission of which we are going to decide the institution and that the meaning of human rights in our country is really for everyone and not only for citizens born in Italy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u36	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the construction of the international legal system for the protection and protection of human rights is one of the great achievements that humanity has achieved. The improvement of the system of protection of human rights and the extension of the sphere of rights of individuals and communities organized unfortunately makes it difficult to counter the proliferation of episodes of violence, oppression, war and misery which, at world level, risks having a negative effect on the delicate balance of international relations and the protection of freedom and life itself.In fact, in recent years there has been a dramatic increase in the violation of the most elementary rights, with an increase in interethnic conflicts and civil wars: aberrant crimes such as genocide and ethnic rape, which were believed to have disappeared after the horrors and barbarity of the Second World War, as well as criminal cases now considered extinct, such as the reduction in slavery, have sadly returned to the present day. International terrorism, especially after the terrible events of 11 September 2001, with its powerful load of death and hatred, risks weakening the system of protection of human rights as a whole, not only because, by sowing violence, it denies the elementary respect for the life and dignity of the victims, but also because it fosters a collective climate of insecurity which, by denying the freedoms of some, threatens to undermine the universal dimension of human rights themselves. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights put the principle of defending the dignity of human beings into practice as the primary objective to be achieved in international relations. Since then, the international system for the protection of human rights has developed in an incisive way, not only in the privileged context of the United Nations, but also through the drafting of appropriate international conventions and treaties of a regional and continental nature that have progressively extended the categories of rights and the spaces for their use. A very special role among the solemnly established international documents lies with those intended for the protection of children. However, the scourge of child labour, trafficking in human beings, the involvement of children in armed conflicts and the unwillingness of drugs are all moments of extreme fragility for the planet's childhood. At national level, the construction of the legal system is necessary, but not sufficient. To protect and promote human rights in practice is a duty for every people and it is not only the recognition of the universality of human rights: it is - above all - the recognition that, through human rights, expresses the unique and shared value of every member of humanity. It is the attestation, therefore, that they represent the lowest common denominator of the globalized world. Human rights must be considered as values that precede any state jurisdiction and, therefore, must be promoted and protected by all: institutions and societies. In recent years the Commission has not dealt solely with the death penalty. There have been many other issues, such as trafficking in human beings because of international implications and also national implications. This is a phenomenon that shows that human rights violations find fertile ground where there is a delay in economic and social development. The privileged place where this sharing of basic principles can take place is the United Nations. The work of the United Nations is therefore fundamental, but - unfortunately - insufficient. It is therefore essential to rethink its structure and functions. If we think about the major humanitarian emergencies on the planet and if we add the pitfalls linked to the proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and the threats to global stability caused by transnational organised crime organisations, we see that these are huge and complex problems that states alone cannot tackle and resolve. I believe that the work of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, which we are preparing to set up in this parliamentary term, should continue to develop in this difficult framework, with the hope that it will become permanent. To this end, the Group of the North and Autonomous League votes in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Sciascia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u39	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Minister de Mistura, I have little to add but a few thoughts which, based on an argument of an anthropological and ethical nature, makes even more of the absolute need for the constitution of the Commission under consideration. The vocabularies of life have been declined; the vocabularies that are treated in the sphere of justice and the legislative aspect have been declined. However, I believe that the interdisciplinary nature of the declination of fundamental rights can represent complexity, but also the absolute need that more competences together can work together to build a common path. And I believe that the ultimate aim of the constitution of this Commission is precisely to work against all forms of discrimination and intolerance faced by the national and international communities. Our hope is that the Commission will commit itself to taking action against all forms of discrimination and intolerance in terms of freedom and responsibility. The freedom of everyone and the recognition of the fundamental rights of every man respond together with the demands of justice and peace. The victims of all violence are asking for it because of freedom; the people who wander the world implore it; those millions of victims whose lives had just been conceived and then immediately destroyed. If I were to use two terms that are dear to us, I believe, we should say that the declination of these rights is based on the principles of interrelationship and reciprocity. It is not enough to decline the right to the dignity of life only in terms of interrelationship, to be with another, because this would translate in terms of simple solidarity. It could even be translated into an offensive tolerance. The true being with others is declined in a vision not only horizontal, but vertical, not understood in the religious meaning of the term, but in the valueal and ontological sense of the human being: that of reciprocity, that is to say of being for others. And in that dimension, your right and your dignity are my right and my dignity. Therefore, as Senator Fattorini rightly pointed out earlier, declining rights is not enough: rights, as declined, must translate into a regulatory aspect. And the latter is not only the legislative declination: the normative aspect is the declination of behavior, that is, what should be our daily life of openness for the other and towards the other. In view of these reasons, which were quickly brought to the attention of the Assembly, the Civic Choice Group for Italy expressed its support for the formation of the Commission in the vote. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u42	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us speak directly in an explanation of vote in order to simplify the debate. We have joined without delay the proposal for the creation of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, sharing the idea that human rights, understood as respect for the fundamental rights of the person, are an extremely complex matter that requires specific, coordinated and organic activity. The aim of this Commission, by retracing the paths and experience of previous legislation, should be to implement initiatives aimed at the abolition of the death penalty in the world, the introduction into our legal system of torture, the protection of the rights of the child, guarantees for those deprived of freedom, the promotion and implementation of the right of asylum, the fight against trafficking in human beings, the fight against racism, xenophobia and discrimination of minorities, the prohibition of female genital mutilation. In short, a path towards the affirmation of human rights as a patrimony and conquest of humanity. We want to strongly denounce, however, that the need to resort to a special Commission for the protection of human rights is yet another implicit affirmation of the failure of politics. It is unusual that a special Commission should be set up when it is sufficient to ensure compliance with existing ordinary laws and international treaties. The European Court of Human Rights has issued a report on the sentences imposed on the Member States of the Council of Europe which have violated human rights. From it emerges staggering and shameful data, especially for our country, sentenced to the payment of 120 million euros in compensation of a total of 176 million euros imposed in all the different member countries. In the second place among the most sanctioned states is Turkey with 23 million euros and the third is Russia, with only 7 million euros. This is an issue of grave institutional importance, as well as of social and economic importance, which must not fail to put the issue of law and rights at the heart of our parliamentary debates. To this must be added, as a very specific example, but significant and public domain, the serious situation in which the institutions of punishment in our country, which sees us in the blackberries of another, compelling procedure by the European Court that the Government has also had the boldness to challenge, while it is before the eyes of all that in our prisons there is a record overcrowding rate of almost 70,000 attendances against 43,000 regulatory presences. It is not to be overlooked, and must be included in this Commission's agenda, the serious situation with regard to the legislation governing immigration in Italy, which is currently in practice the creator of an immense reservoir of cheap labour for organised crime. The protection of human rights, however, also goes from guaranteeing access to credit to all sections of the population today in difficulty: something that does not happen, while continuing to operate and prosper financial speculation and the criminal system of usury, stimulated in fact by the current banking situation. Having said that, moving on to a procedural question, we have wondered why it is necessary today to set up yet another special Commission in the interests of the establishment of the Permanent Commissions. The above issues are very important and delicate and concern a dimension that goes far beyond our country, but what country today can stand up to defend human rights if it is not able to safeguard dignity and prevent the tragedies that we have witnessed in these days? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It would be a much nobler and more responsible gesture, and above all effective, to put Parliament in a position to operate and carry out concrete legislative initiatives, aimed at restoring dignity to those families that today face the crisis without seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, as well as ensuring compliance with existing legislation with regard to the protection of the rights of the person. It would be a great gesture to put aside all the established practices and possible greed for seats to give this Parliament the dignity it deserves, to set in motion the legislative machinery necessary to deal with the serious moment we are going through, in order to achieve citizenship income, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and others. Only after starting this process can this country be said to be mature enough to stand up as a defender of human rights, also at international level, with due credibility and dignity. The Istanbul Convention has been cited, which in order to be transposed needs the Commissions because a special bill must be passed. For the above, the 5 Star Parliamentary Movement Group once again stigmatizes the constant delay in setting up the Permanent Commissions and calls for them to be launched. He also strongly asked, Mr President, that, if the House were to approve the establishment of the extraordinary Commission, it should be formed only after the opening of the standing committees. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We believe that human rights, the rights of the child, the migrant, the woman, every other person who sees his rights trampled on in some country in the world, are sacred, but if there is a country that is currently trampling on these rights, it is Italy: it is this deaf Parliament to the demands that come from the citizens in difficulty, which, in the interests of the people, places the need to find numbers that make up a majority. In conclusion, Mr President, I ask a question and I ask for a commitment: first of all, how much will this umpteenth Commission cost? Given the importance of its aims, we are asking the promoters of the motion to commit themselves and the Presidency to activate all the procedures necessary to reduce its costs. In particular, we are asking for the cancellation of any allowances due to President, Vice Presidents and Secretaries, since it should be considered an honour to chair the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Finally, allow us to remove a pebble from our shoe: why, for the establishment of this extraordinary Commission, unlike the Permanent Commissions and the Councils, has not raised the problem of knowing with certainty the composition of the majority and opposition groups? Was it not an indispensable factor in the formation of any Commission? For the above, however, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the creation of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, hoping that the conditions outlined above will be respected. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Compagnone),]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u45	PELINO (PdL). Mr President, the motion we are about to vote on, signed by all the parliamentary groups, which is therefore widely shared, through the establishment of a permanent Commission to protect and promote human rights, wants to stress how important and indispensable it is to respect human life, its rights and its dignity, beyond any difference. In 1993, the UN General Assembly called on all Member States to set up independent bodies specifically for the promotion and defence of human rights and freedom. At such a difficult time of economic crisis, even for our country, we see these human rights disappear at some time: I am talking above all about the right to work and therefore not having to leave our country to find employment opportunities abroad. I believe that at the moment the establishment of this Commission can convey to the Italians the firm feeling that this House wants to bear in mind how important and indispensable it is to protect the sacred human rights. I am also talking about a dignity that must be absolutely respected, precisely because these days' stories place us - alas! - in the face of so many people who, having to face the great discomfort of a country in crisis, no longer have the strength to face their own difficulties and does not apply to them any support, even the emotional one, to deter them from making inconsulted gestures. Therefore, I believe that this Parliament must take full responsibility for everything that is happening in our country and that we would not have wanted it to happen for our fellow citizens. Therefore, on behalf of the People of Freedom Group, I support motion No 7 (text 2). [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u48	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, Mr Senators, in 1948 with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the world tried to leave behind the horror of the Second World War and that Declaration was called the Magna Charta of All Humanity by Eleanor Roosevelt, a beloved daughter of a great country: the United States of America, to which we are all close today - as you recalled at the beginning of this sitting, Mr President - with solidarity for the victims and wounded of the Boston attacks. Terror and stragism are also crimes against the most basic human rights, and this debate today tells us something important: that Mrs Roosevelt's fight for human rights and for the fight against injustice and murderous violence is a timeless challenge that still lasts today. The slow journey towards the universal affirmation of the inalienable rights of the individual also obliges this generation, ours, to play its part in the long journey towards a goal of true justice. In the last 15 years, the Italian Senate can boast good legislative work, widely shared, on the subject of human rights. A long, continuous, quality and successful work: from the Committee's commitment to the 13th legislature against the death penalty to the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights of the XIV and XVI legislatures, without forgetting the Special Commission of the 15th legislature. As Senator Tonini said a moment ago, the Italian Senate is owed a special and important contribution to the adoption of the UN Resolution of 2007 which provided for the moratorium on the death penalty. In recent years the moratorium has been the most concrete and therefore important political act of the United Nations Assembly. If the Senate wants to continue to honour Italy's commitments, there is still much to be done, already in this legislature, starting with the establishment of an independent authority for the protection of human rights and the inclusion, unfortunately very late, in our legal system of the crime of torture. The States, including ours, also gain international honour and respect with the seriousness of their commitment to the defence of human rights. And even for states, as for people, it is difficult to ask others what they can't do in their own home. Senator Fattorini reminded us just now that globalisation, by increasing opportunities for encounter between men, increases the risks of human rights violations in nearby and distant places of the world, where vigilance is absent or complacent with violations and violators. Unfortunately, this is also the case in our country. I am thinking of those prisons in which the living conditions of so many prisoners continue to violate the most basic human rights. Always from us, I also think of when we agree that men, women and children coming to Italy from the South and from the East of the world in search of an opportunity live in a state of social and civil abandonment, if not even in conditions of real detention, with unworthy treatments of our democratic tradition and damage, once again, of the most elementary inviolable rights of man. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a few political comments. The forthcoming approval, I hope unanimously, of the motion for the establishment of an extraordinary Commission on Human Rights is not a mere act of parliamentary routine, but an important political fact that could, only that we wanted to, mark and qualify this laborious and uncertain start of parliamentary life. Today, unanimity indicates the maturity of a Parliamentary House that knows how to find a way to avoid splitting up when general interests, universal values and shared principles are at stake. This is the political reason why we should all, responsibly and with at least equal commitment, work to ensure that the next election of the President of the Republic also takes place with the same broad consensus. It is our Constitution that asks us to elect the President by a large majority, as all Italian citizens ask us: from the centre, the right and the left. If you do not want to risk dying in a swamp of political clashes, of partisan opposition, of struggle between factions, our country needs more than ever unity and sharing. It is now more useful than ever for Italy to make the choice of its President with a united Parliament, to show that politics is mature and serious, in line with its responsibilities. Since I mentioned the election of the President, I feel I must add a corollary which concerns us and which reminds us of our duties, as political groups and also as individual Members of Parliament. The President of the Republic has been elected. The beginning of the legislature must be considered exhausted. It will be our duty to allow the immediate formation of a Government that helps Italy to emerge from the crisis and transform a country blocked and mortified in a dynamic country, capable of rewarding the initiative, enforcing the law, helping young people and women to make room, finally. Furthermore, we must say this (as Senator Crimi has already said and I am addressing him in particular), the establishment of the Human Rights Commission would not make sense if, immediately after the election of the President of the Republic, together with the formation of the Government, we did not proceed to the immediate establishment of the Permanent Commissions, with the aim of making the most of their essential role as a central place in the exercise of Parliament's legislative power. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] I would like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that, in our archives, there are several legislative proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which give and recognize the Commissions a central role. These amendments, I believe, should also be examined and approved by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the House very quickly. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fattorini]] I think that is also the sense of the vote that we will be voting in a few moments. But there is still one final consideration. We must remember that the relationship between human rights and social rights is becoming increasingly inseparable and that at such an acute stage of economic crisis conditions of extreme poverty can produce themselves and blatant violations of human rights. If we do not safeguard rights everywhere, we will not be able to guarantee the observance of duties, and without the observance of duties, the very hypothesis of a Republic capable of removing obstacles restricting the freedom and equality of citizens is shattered. In the main Italian economic newspaper we read that the crisis we are experiencing can prove to be the heaviest in our history. It's very likely that's the case. What is certain is that the crisis will continue for a long time and that the time for rigour is not over. With the decision to set up the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, the Senate is saying that rigour in the economy can never ignore the needs and needs of the last, those who need help, and cannot pretend not to see the needs and rights of those who do not have work, families and young generations. It is important that this message of social solidarity starts from the Italian Parliament and this Senate and arrives in Europe, where decisions are taken that are relevant to our future. Europe too - and indeed, first and foremost, the strong countries of Europe - must receive the support of the Italian Parliament, which, in confirming the rigour of the public accounts, calls for more social justice with a loud voice. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u51	Mr Russo (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u52	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Russo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). It's approved. [[General applause]] I would point out that the motion was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u55	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I do not know if my vote has been recorded, because I did not see the green light lit, even though I had pressed to vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u56	Senator Palma, we note that you voted in favour, so the unanimity of approval is not affected.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u59	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I realized that I did not take part in the vote on the motion because of my own personal incapacity. I would like my vote in favour to be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u60	I take note of that, Senator Cirinna.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u63	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I wanted to acknowledge what happened at this morning's sitting of the Interim Council for the Verification of Credentials, in which a legal and political situation was examined which was certainly delicate but also clear. Following requests of various kinds regarding the convocation of the Provisional Board for the verification of powers, the same was convened this morning, basically (following the minutes that have been drawn up) to obtain the opinion of the members on possible initiatives to take on the not few cases of incompatibility deriving from sources of constitutional rank. The clear reference is in particular to Article 122 of the Constitution, which concerns the incompatibility between Members of Parliament and Members of the Regional Assemblies and Regional Councils. The Board for the Rules of Procedure has already intervened on 9 April and has explained the powers of the Provisional Board on the basis of Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. It was pointed out this morning in the Interim Junta that the Interim Junta could not help but call for the establishment of the Permanent Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to consider inviting the senators concerned, of course well aware of their institutional personal situation, to remove the obvious incompatibility in a very short time. The reasons for this meeting and these requests were clear. The Senators of the Provisional Council who spoke unanimously expressed their opinion, which was summarized in this way: a rapid constitution of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys is desirable, considering that it is the appropriate and competent forum to assess any grounds for incompatibility under the Constitution and ordinary laws; moreover, it is requested that it be given notice in this Assembly of the necessity, precisely for institutional and constitutional reasons, that in a very short time the Senators dissolve their reservation (those obviously interested) communicating to the Senate Offices if they prefer to remain in this Assembly or opt for the regional assembly or for the competent municipal ones. This communication to the House is, I think, necessary to acknowledge the completeness of the work of the Interim Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u66	MALAN (PdL). Mr President, I was also present, as a member of the Interim Committee for the Verification of Credentials, at the meeting we held this morning, chaired by Senator Casson, and I agree with the outcome of the meeting, which he has just reported. It is clear that the Rules of Procedure are absolutely clear in defining that the incompatibility must be examined through the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, as laid down in Article 19 and reiterated in Article 135-b, in which it is established that the Senate decides on the Junta's proposals on incandidability and incompatibility which also took place. I must point out that only this morning I learned of a number of colleagues who were in a situation of incompatibility and who resolved it. Those I heard chose the Senate election by giving up the other incompatible office they were in, so I think the problem is in the process of being resolved. During the last parliamentary term there was a sharp acceleration in the time of examination of the issue and within a few weeks the situation has been resolved, but in the past there had been much longer times, reaching even months before the dissolution of the reserve. I think it is a good thing that we did this last parliamentary term. I went to see the precedents of the legislatures relating to the election of the President of the Republic: in 2006 the Junta was constituted even a month after the election of the President and in 1992 it was the day before but it could operate only a long time later, so the precedents comfort us. However, it seems to me that colleagues, at least to a large extent, are resolving the issue of incompatibility, as is certainly desirable. It is certain, however, that the formal steps must be taken by the election committee and the Rules of Procedure in this respect are very clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u69	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, as I have already asked at the Conference of the Leaders, I will repeat the request to make public the names of those who - I imagine - by the opening of the votes for the President of the Republic will not have exercised the option or dissolved the reservation. We believe that it is necessary for all citizens to know who are the senators and Members who have decided to maintain their double office at the time of the highest democratic exercise in Italy, namely the vote for the election of the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Olivero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u70	It is certainly desirable that large voters should be given great responsibilities, such as opting to resolve the causes of constitutional incompatibility. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u73	TURANO (Mixed). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor and for the minute of silence at the beginning of the sitting in honour of the victims of Boston. I speak to express to the United States of America and President Obama all my solidarity, that of this House and, I know I can say, that of all Italians abroad for the vile attack that in Boston caused the death of three innocent citizens and the injury of over 130 people. I am personally and deeply linked to this terrible affair as I am elected to the constituency of North and Central America and I know very well that such a terrible event will unfortunately once again reopen those wounds that have never been fully healed after 11 September 2001. The American people in this moment of sorrow and despair need the support of all and again by the Italians resident in the United States will come to them a strong symbolic embrace, a sign of a great friendship, which in such delicate moments becomes even stronger and stronger. A special thanks goes also to the Italian consulate of Boston, that already yesterday evening sent a team to the place and to the main hospitals of the city to verify the eventual involvement of Italian citizens, verify that, at the moment, it has fortunately given negative outcome. In the coming days, immediately after the election of the President of the Republic, I will go to the United States to meet the Italian community. I will bring the solidarity expressed by all my fellow senators and, together with my fellow countrymen, I will focus on the importance of reacting courageously and forcefully to the Boston bombing. I'm sure America will make it this time too. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u76	Bianconi (GAL). Mr President, I would like to remind you, together with you and all the senators, of one of our colleagues who died 25 years ago, on 16 April, at the hands of the barbarism of the Red Brigades: Mr Roberto Ruffilli, one of the last to die under the blows of the barbarism of the Red Brigades, a mild, polite and cultural man, as well as a great historian. [[Applause.]] They are still alive in the land of Romagna and in his Forlì the emotion and attention that he has always reserved to that land and students, who are now adult politicians who have also done great things in Italy. To him was named the Ruffilli Foundation, which among its priorities has precisely that of the cultural and political formation of the younger generations. At that time, the state had a thrill of great cohesion and dignity, and together we were able to defeat that barbarism. So we want to remember him today as a mild man who, however, has done great things for Italy, and we want to remember him in order not to forget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u79	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I would like to join in the emotional and deference evocation that Mrs Bianconi has proposed to us in connection with the anniversary of the disappearance of Roberto Ruffilli, a personality of the very first level of Italian political and historiographical culture. I do this first of all for a personal motivation, because I had the privilege of some association with him. I was a scholar at the Catholic University when Ruffilli guided me in reading some texts that I believe have been fundamental to my formation, in a particular way - I say this because it evokes a significant aspect of his personality - the essay "Protestantism and social transformation" of the English historian Hugh Trevor-Roper. Why is this suggestion expressive of a culture, a sensitivity and a cultural orientation that inspired the public commitment, as well as a scholar, of Roberto Ruffilli? Because studying Protestantism means above all to evoke the principle of freedom and obligation of the bond of conscience, which for Ruffilli constituted the fundamental compass of orientation of his choices in his dislocation. Ruffilli was an extraordinary scholar of the evolution of the Italian political system, but not in terms of a purely academic erudition: rather in the sign of a support to politics for it to put hand, in the times of democracy blocked, to that complex of institutional reforms that still constitute in many ways today the winter of our discontent, the measure of our shortcomings, of our delays. On this Ruffilli was undoubtedly a master of life and thought. Finally, one final point. That of Ruffilli was a prominent figure representative of that extraordinary strand of Italian political culture that goes under the name - we all recognize this category - of democratic Catholicism, that is, of a cultural and political line that exalts two fundamental choices and orientations for the commitment of Catholics: on the one hand, the recognition of the secularity of the State as a condition of coexistence (because faiths, passions, ideologies can inspire the existential choices of each of us, while secularism is a principle of coexistence that guarantees the production of norms that regulate the life of all); on the other hand, the aspiration to social progress, to the inversion of Articles 2 and 3 of our Constitution. From that barbaric murder we also draw a further indication that in Ruffilli it seems to me that red terrorism, the Red Brigades struck the credible face of the institutions, struck the credibility of the State in its representatives of public life and society, in their most credible representatives and in their most authentic witnesses. In giving this testimony Roberto Ruffilli fell, and it is in reason - I believe - that we cannot in any way neglect or oblivion his memory and the personal memory that binds us to him. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romano. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u82	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). I am facilitated by asking for the floor, dear President and distinguished colleagues, in remembrance of the very authoritative role that you have previously played in your task today. I am referring to the long trail of blood that spreads through the streets of the city of Bari, to the point of creating a situation of anxiety and anxiety that undermines the state of democracy and civil coexistence in that city. Mr President, knowing your sensitivity, your competence and your previous history, in such tragically crucial facts, but also vital to the democratic holding of our country, I ask your good offices so that the question 4,00058 which I have addressed carefully to the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, and which I reiterated a few weeks ago, can find worthy acceptance and attention from the Government. The problem I represent to you is reported in the chronicles of all the national newspapers, which give us a real war bulletin: until today, we have about 20 deaths killed in the city streets, even in the center and in times of dense traffic, even pedestrian. This leads to a serious discouragement, to which is added an even more disturbing circumstance: I am referring to the statements of the mayor of that city, who unmistakably states that those who are preparing to support the elections for the next electoral competition at the town hall of Bari are already dealing with the gangsters. You will understand, Mr President, that, within an already alarming framework, governed with tenacity and authority by the prefect of Bari and the forces of order, as well as by the prosecutor of the Republic, statements of this kind leave dismay and dismay. That is why I believe - and this is what I am asking you, Mr President, to intervene with the Government in order to hold a meeting of the National Committee on Security and Public Order in Bari and at least one euro of the Single Justice Fund, expressly established to provide economic resources to support the staff of the investigative judiciary and the law enforcement forces, can arrive in a city where the situation of social alarm caused by organised crime is of great concern, with possible contiguity with political and economic powers. Mr President, let us take care of this request, which I warmly entrust to your sensitivity, your competence and your authoritative role. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u83	We will urge the Government to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-13.ana.u85	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 17 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.51 a.m.
