ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 30 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document LVII, No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2013 Economic and Financial Document is submitted to us, as has been pointed out several times, by a Government that is no longer what it had laid down, but we know well that, albeit partially outdated, this Document prepares the country for a choice. The first option is to assert the results of public finance so far obtained and to request the closure of the infringement procedure for excessive deficit against Italy, or to prolong this outcome. In the first case, we would commit ourselves to containing the structural deficit below 3%, also for the current year and for 2014, immediately releasing 12 billion investment in part direct and partly co-financed by Europe; in the second case we would have some half a percentage point of expenditure or less revenue, but we would give up the 12 billion. However, the choice to remove Italy from the infringement procedure cannot be exhausted in these accounts. In fact, what is really at stake is the country's credit rating on the financial markets and the improvement of this credit rating is the prerequisite for accessing money at less costly rates. Today there is much talk of the fall in the competitiveness of the Italian economy, and often it is done superficially, without distinguishing between the bulk of the economy that is languishing and export oriented manufacturing that in the district enterprises and in the medium and large enterprises, the so-called pocket multinationals, continues to detect a high rate of competitiveness, as evidenced by the balance of payments balance relative to this sector of the economy. It is clear to everyone, however, that as long as the economies of Northern Europe, Germany in the lead, can be financed at negative real rates, the competitiveness of the company Italy will always suffer a very serious handicap. I wonder how many articles 18 would it take to stop such a breach. The last ten-year BTP auction ended at rates below 4%: it was a good sign, and yet we are still far from where we should be in order to compete worthily. With the ECB reducing the European discount rate to 0.5% we should still halve returns, but this is not immediately within reach, it is not obvious. Minister Saccomanni says that the spread should be at 100: I personally interpret this statement as an act of confidence, an objective to be achieved and certainly not as a lamentation for the misunderstanding of the markets. On the other hand, the good timing of government bonds is due only partially to the best current rates and current government financial balances. It also stems, to a large extent, from the extraordinary wave of liquidity that the Japanese Central Bank has put on the markets and from the quantitative easing that the US Federal Reserve has not yet interrupted. This liquidity, combined with the lower bond yields of the countries with the strongest assets, fuels a hunger for returns by global investors that also brings money back to the shores of the Mediterranean. The other public finance balances, however, those so to speak assets, are certainly not positive if the public debt in 2014, according to the most prudent estimates, will exceed 130 percent of GDP, and this is not so much because the public debt will increase in absolute figures, but mainly because it will disappoint, once again, the gross domestic product. Now, proving seriousness and reliability in the public accounts remains an imperative also for the Letta Government and yet the credit credit of the Italian company as a whole does not depend only on this: much depends on the holding of its banking system and the ability that it will have to serve the real economy. Much also depends on the government's ability to put money into the economy with public spending and an industrial policy up to the challenge and a lot, finally, could depend on a reduction action, or at least consolidation, of the public debt without recessive effects, even if I fear that this remains what De Gaulle called a "vast program". Italy will exit the infringement procedure as negotiations on the European Banking Union begin to get underway. They deal with many issues. I would just like to remind you of one, because it shows us how we can also review our position within the fiscal compact. In the Banking Union, as you know, the accounting criteria by which banks in different countries weigh assets according to their level of risk should be brought into line. Italian banks have many credits and relatively few securities and derivatives: their risk is linked to the real economy. Northern banks have an opposite balance sheet and risk structure. Well, on the weighting criteria depends on the relationship between assets and own assets according to which banks can or cannot provide credit, beyond liquidity, which is now abundant. The national interest of Italy is clear: our banks are not very strong, but with our accounting standards Deutsche Bank would be hung by a thread. So, in keeping with the balances, we need to discuss what we put into public budgets and how we weigh them. This is why it is worth speeding up the exit from the infringement procedure and then reopening foreign policy action to review the logic of fiscal compact. To reset the IMU, to say the least, is there: in my opinion the priorities are others, but there is, as far as possible. And yet Italy will not find the way of growth again with four or eight billion extra spending or revenue loss: it takes much more! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u6	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u7	Dear President, Senators, Members of the Government, in the DEF we would like the problems of the agricultural world to be regarded as a fundamental national issue. The role played by agriculture in the context of national economies is considerable. In 2012, despite a decrease in the total number of farms, there was a positive employment balance and an export of 31 billion. All this makes agriculture a field of excellence in our economy. Farms demonstrate on a daily basis that they have the ability to impose themselves on national and international markets. In order for this to happen again in the future, we believe that local and regional productions should be valued. The culture of a nation is represented not only by its artistic and literary heritage, but also by that heritage of food, wines and flavors of which every Region in our country can legitimately be proud. The typical products of Italy are appreciated and recognized all over the world: if we can enhance this heritage, we will be able to look with confidence at the challenges of globalization. It is a question of remaining creatively faithful to the best of our tradition, not selling out what is ours alone and that they will not be able to destroy either the economic crisis or international competition. This is the need not to be conditioned by a misconceived modernity, which leads to a type approval of products and the consequent loss of local specificity. Hence our opposition to GMOs. It is certainly due to unsolved health questions: their long-term effects on human nature are still unknown. Equally important, however, are the economic considerations: the risk is to approve Italian agriculture to that of other countries by introducing seed patented by large multinationals, thus gradually destroying the specificities that constitute our strength. Not very different considerations can be made about pesticides. They have very negative effects on human health, as evidenced by a recent study by Dr. Patrizia Gentilini, which identifies a close correlation between their use and the onset of leukemias, melanomas, prostate cancers and childhood cancers. Intensive use of these products also compromises the integrity and purity of aquifers, at a time when, also due to the ongoing climate change, water is preparing to become a valuable and not easy to find asset. To these important evaluations I also add other practical ones: Italian agriculture has everything to gain from an eco-sustainable development, based on respect for the environment and on the natural nature of the products. Connected to this problem is that of the defense and preservation of the Italian agricultural landscape. In its millenarian history it has configured itself in an inimitable original form, in which the cultivated land harmonizes with the buildings of man (houses, villages and villages), suggestively defined by Goethe as a second nature that operates for civil purposes. Unfortunately, in recent decades this immense heritage of humanity has been almost completely destroyed. In my region, Veneto, the landscape of Tiziano and Giorgione, one of the great places of the western soul, was raped by an unregulated and chaotic urban-industrial development: agricultural areas, residential areas, industrial areas overlap without a plan and a rule. Even in this case, the loss of aesthetics and culture risks following an economic loss, first from a tourist point of view, then because the beauty of a country is the main advertising of its products, agricultural ones as well as industrial ones, and depriving it in the name of an immediate gain is the most serious wrong that can be done to future generations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u8	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u9	Madam President, kind senators and senators, my speech will examine the DEF with regard to local administrations and, in particular, the municipalities. Local authorities have been able to contain expenditure in these years with a reduction of 12 billion euros in three years, mainly achieved with the reduction of expenditure on employees and capital expenditure. The primary balance of the sector went from a negative value to positive values in 2011 and 2012. The net debt of the sector goes from negative values to positive values in 2012 (well 2.7 billion euros). The cash account is slightly deteriorating for local authorities, but is largely attributable to the health sector. During the three-year period, current transfers to Municipalities and Provinces are reduced by 3.6 billion euros. Investment contributions for all local authorities are reduced from EUR 9 billion to EUR 7.5 billion. So, as you can see, the contribution was strong. The National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), in the document produced during the hearings held at the Special Commission, pointed out the strong contribution made by Municipalities and Provinces in recent years to the consolidation of the public accounts, and I agree with the requests made in that forum, which I summarize: to integrate the DEF with the prospectuses relating to the individual sectors and to identify a definite and definitive solution of the problems posed by the Municipalities in relation to the Internal Stability Pact. But let us come to the third part of the DEF: the National Reform Programme illustrates the measures that the country has taken to respond to the recommendations of the European Council. I will only focus on a few of them, the most problematic ones. The first concerns the containment of staff: the constraints are now so tangled that not only the bodies but also the Court of Auditors are in difficulty. The Government has done well to initiate a dialogue with the territorial authorities in order to establish the parameters of virtuosity and the identification of criteria for the endowment of organic plants, taking into account the relationship between employees and resident population. As regards the reduction in the number of provinces, which could have saved between EUR 370 million and EUR 535 million under the scheme, the current debate, in my opinion, must be based on the wise proposals of the Union of the Provinces of Italy (UPI), which refer to the functions carried out by these bodies. Another key element is the extension of the Internal Stability Pact to municipalities from 1,000 to 5,000 inhabitants, but it creates constraints and also administrative tasks that small municipalities, with few employees, fail to fulfil. It is preferable to return to some indicators which, differentiated according to the virtuosity, allow the result in terms of aid to the recovery. If IMU and TARES are imposed and municipal taxes, let's leave them to the municipalities: this is a cry that really comes from all our administrations. The IMU is the typical federal tax: it is produced on site, it is paid directly into the municipal coffers and the control of evasion can be carried out independently by the municipalities. When you touch these taxes, you touch the financial autonomy of the institutions. The current embarrassing relationship between derivative finance and own finance must be resolved in favour of proper local territorial finance according to equal criteria. With regard to the IMU, the Ministry has announced that the revenue related to the main houses, including the additional municipal ones, has turned out of approximately 4 billion. The taxpayers involved in the payment were about 17 million. Of the total IMU revenue, the tax rate resulting from the taxation of the main dwelling represents 17%. Personally, I do not agree with the choice of providing facilities on the basis of the ISEE because it creates a new mix of taxations. Many municipalities in recent years have undertaken to have a register of real estate that will allow the recovery of the entire revenue. With the application of the ISEE the control escapes the municipalities and makes the recovery of the escape more complex going to facilitate those who already escape. What is the future of the IMU first home? Delete it for 2013? It's $4 billion, and who's the priority? Not the poorest or weakest sections of the population who, by not owning a house, do not pay the IMU. They need a real home policy, as the President-in-Office of the Council has already pointed out. At this time it is emergency evictions, many are the young couples who would like a home, there are older people no longer able to support with their pension the payment of a rent. With the abolition of the IMU it would not meet those who with effort and sacrifices bought a small accommodation for their family, because already now with deductions pays nothing or little. They would not enjoy large families who already enjoy deductions for their children. There are still situations to be safeguarded, which can be addressed by the introduction of an increase in deductions or by the introduction of differentiated rates for those who pay the mortgage or own only one property or have disabilities, not forgetting those who use real estate for productive purposes. These adjustments would, however, lead to a much smaller reduction in revenue. Why should we not charge for those citizens who have a high-value main residence and who may have other properties and who, in order to be in the high-end consumption groups, normally have a much lower propensity to consume than the lowest-ends? The IMU is experimental and, therefore, I do not think we should make a wall against the wall; I trust in the wisdom of the forces that support the Government, who will also be able to make changes on the main house that really meet the weakest groups and use the most appropriate instruments for the development and relaunch of consumption. On the TARES they all seem to agree for a postponement. The municipalities have very different difficulties because they start from different situations: some municipalities still apply the TARSU, others are in TIA1 or TIA2. In conclusion, in the National Reform Plan, still to be written, we need a strategic vision of the local authorities that are the engine of development, in many realities are important companies for the territory. Thank you, President, senators and senators for your attention. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] I would ask you, Madam President, to be able to attach the full text of my speech to the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2013 Economic and Financial Document there is no programming for the agricultural world in the medium and long term. In 20 or 30 years' time agriculture will be very different for two reasons: firstly, it will no longer be energy-intensive and oil-dependent like the current one; secondly, economic aid will be markedly reduced. Today, many Italian farms, if not all of them, are heavily dependent on the various forms of aid available to ensure their profitability. Our farms are predominantly small and medium-sized, with a strong family component and a utilized agricultural area below the European average. Therefore, all forms of aggregation should be encouraged, not only cooperative and corporate, but also those networks that allow a sharing of knowledge and equipment, while maintaining the peculiarity of each individual company. These new corporate aspects would allow better market access, facilitate short supply chain systems, ensuring product traceability, payment certainty, the protection of Made in Italy with complete labelling of all the production and health information necessary for proper food. We must remember that in Italy there is no food sovereignty, which represents the common platform of vindication of every political horizon in the field of agriculture and food. Therefore, we should change, first, the way in which food is produced, by adopting an ecologically sustainable and socially right food system; second, the way in which food is consumed, by promoting the diversification of food crops and the reduction of meat consumption, which will favour the reduction of cardiovascular diseases and will lead to a saving of energy and water economic resources; third, the way in which food is distributed, by decentralising food supply chains, by promoting markets based on solidarity and fair prices, by promoting direct relations between producers and consumers, in order to counter the expansion and power of hypermarkets; fourth, we should enhance and improve the social working conditions in agricultural and food systems, by fighting for the rights of all women and men who produce food, including seasonal workers, migrants, workers of the processing industry in the commercial sector; fifth, we should claim the law of our common goods: the land, the reproducible traditional seeds, breeds of livestock, fish stocks, trees, forests, water, atmosphere and knowledge. We need to change public policies to ensure vitality in rural areas, fair prices for farmers, safe GMO free foods, the prohibition of speculation on food and on earth. With regard to the structure of government in the agricultural sector, a redundant administrative stratification must be eliminated. There must be a reordering of the bodies under the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, some of which have executives who are subject to judicial investigations. A state-of-the-art agriculture needs knowledge and collaboration with research institutions, seed banks, universities and can be a place where real and useful work is created, including that aimed at people in physical and mental conditions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u12	Madam President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, any assessment of the 2013 Economic and Financial Document cannot be without regard to what the President of the Council, Mr Letta, said during the presentation of the policy lines and subsequently reiterated by Minister Saccomeni at last Thursday's hearing. It is true: as it is written within it, it is a transitional document which does not determine a priority agenda, but identifies the areas of action and whose main merit is to pursue the objective of consolidation and compliance with European commitments. But today the demand that comes strong from the country is to put in the field policies for development, for the revival of the economy and for the overcoming of the crisis. For this reason, as an autonomousist from Trentino and as a Group for Autonomies, we appreciate the Government's will to proceed with an additional note that goes in this direction: that of the revival of the economy, giving oxygen to so many small and medium-sized enterprises that live a phase of great difficulty and marking a line of discontinuity with respect to the previous Government because, unfortunately (we have bitterly experienced it), a policy of only cuts saves on the one hand, but on the other it generates additional economic costs and, above all, social costs. Therefore, the hope is that the Additional Note will go in this direction and take into account all the points indicated by the Head of Government and the Minister of Economy during his hearing. We will wait to know its contents, but we can say from now on that the ways in which the Government and President Letta are moving in these first days make us confident. We appreciated the President's language of truth, the one that correctly identifies issues and indicates possible and feasible solutions without mocking anyone. Just as we share a number of proposals: from the multiannual plan for innovation and research to employment measures (especially for young people and women), to the new pact between businesses and bureaucracy (especially the part relating to new investments to allow those who do business to feel the protagonist of the revival of the country), or as the proposal - for us of vital importance - to reduce the tax burden on companies and families. Just as we are convinced that we must move towards a new phase, that of social cohesion, in an effort to unite institutions, banks, businesses, social and trade union forces, local authorities and all other actors working in the public and private sphere. It is necessary to create a new pact whose priority is to reverse the path of widespread feeling, to move from pessimism that crosses the social body to the idea that the country must have confidence because it possesses the tools, intelligences, forces and resources in order to get out of the crisis. Therefore, the positive elements that are contained in this Document must be valued. As far as we in Trentino are concerned, we cannot but welcome the part relating to infrastructure, with the financing planned with the last CIPE for the Brenner tunnel, thus recognizing that the investment on the rail is now strategic and no longer postponed. Small and medium-sized enterprises are experiencing a period of great difficulty. Thousands and thousands of jobs are at risk and this climate of uncertainty is leading to a reduction in consumption and a slow but inexorable contraction of the economy throughout our territory. The priorities for us must be to reduce the tax burden on labour, in particular to promote the recruitment or stabilisation of young people, and the relaxation of the Internal Stability Pact, in order to allow virtuous administrations with cash resources - and I am referring in particular to the situation in Trentino, which I know best - to be able to use them for small and large projects. But we also share the non-increase in VAT and other measures to stimulate the economy. As self-employed, we point to two interventions that have worked well and that both deserve an extension, especially at this difficult stage: tax deductions to 50% for those who do renovation of their home and those to 55% for energy saving and redevelopment. We believe that the points that I have set out, in a totally non-exhaustive way, if well developed in the Additional Note, can represent a first important answer to the questions that come from the country, knowing of course that, once given a first positive shock, we must insist on a whole other series of directions. I would like to point out some of them which seem to me to be a priority. Firstly, innovation and knowledge. A country that wants to build the future cannot help but invest heavily in innovation and culture; President Letta also said so. Public and private research centres, universities and schools of every order and grade: no element of the supply chain must be set aside. In a reality that changes with dizzying speed, the world of school and training must be the first to adapt if we do not want to be cut off. Instead, in Italy, every time you touch something in the school, the ending happens and in the end everything remains as it was. Rather, it takes a radical reform of the school, so that it can really be in step with the times, able to have a strong connection with the world of work. Experiences of this kind already exist and could be a model: we think, for example, of the dual institutions of the German world, which have excellent performances in terms of the employment of their graduates. But it must also apply to scientific research, which must interact, much more than it does today, with the world of enterprise in order to produce those positive repercussions that are not sufficient today. Secondly, we need a new relationship between the public and the private sector, with the sale by the public and the liberalisation of those activities and services that can be carried out safely by the private sector, neither more nor less than is the case in all other European countries. And I am not talking about wild liberalisation, such as that, excessive and disruptive, put in place in some areas by the Monti Government. Thirdly, responsibility, understood as a capacity to always tell the truth to citizens, to show themselves as serious, reliable guides, who do not fear but who encourage merit and, indeed, see it as value - in society, in politics, in institutions - to produce growth and well-being. Fourth: selectivity, to reward those who produce value, to be more competitive and not to disperse resources that are increasingly scarce. Finally, allow me to refer to the new relationship that must be established between the State and the autonomy, a relationship that I consider absolutely strategic for our country. This is because the new centralist wind, which brings back the responsibilities of government and tax revenues increasingly to Rome, risks putting into crisis a regional system that, even with all its inadequacy, remains the only real tool to empower the territories and to act effectively on the levers of development. The crisis of local and local authorities, with rare exceptions, is very serious and is before everyone's eyes. The costs of politics, the breakdown of health care, the many examples of poor management, the dizzying budget deficits are to the honour of the news almost every day. However, to imagine overcoming the problem, even if serious, by tightening the strings of the stock exchange and operating through the perverse system of linear cuts or, worse still, questioning the very survival of the local authorities, does not do the interests of a country that cannot grow without the initiative and co-responsibility of its extraordinary territorial riches. This condition, which cannot be built through an undifferentiated and markedly centralized government direction. Of course, it is not even imaginable to re-propose as a situation in bankruptcy. However, the double effect, on the one hand of the drastic reduction of the spaces of autonomy of the local authorities, of the Regions in particular, and on the other of the linear cuts, which punish the virtuous and reward the non-virtuous, subtracts the country from the most typical and expressive competitive factor: the exceptional richness and variety of its territories and their potential for development. In this perspective, it is therefore essential to note that the central power is not structurally capable of having the authority and the ability to call territorial autonomy to co-responsibility in the government of the country, if with these develops an irreconcilable dialectic, made of impositions, police stations, interferences, linear cuts, until it becomes permanent conflict, hostility, useless opposition. It is therefore necessary to rapidly clarify the roles and areas of competence, eliminating confusion, abstract and unrealistic statements, overlaps, management diseconomies and waste. For this clarification to be real, it is necessary to start from the actual data, from the way situations really are, not letting themselves be influenced by superficial, approximate and often misleading accounts. Bad statistics lead to bad policies. When reality is not evaluated for what it is, but it is the result of partial, erroneous, omissive accounting comparisons, it ends up feeding the common places, rather than giving back truth. Usually, in order to demonstrate the so-called privileges of the Regions under special statute, regional expenditure is compared according to the number of inhabitants. They would be fair accounts if only regional spending were involved in the regional territory, but that is not the case. In one territory, of course, regional expenditure, but also state expenditure, social security expenditure, usually national expenditure, and other public entities that do not depend on the regional budget. Then the comparison must be made on the total of the expenditure that is distributed on the territory, whatever the public entity that gives it. When the comparison between the Regions is made through consolidated public expenditure, i.e. counting any public expenditure at any level of government, the situation is very different and the differences between the Region and the Region are not only mitigated, but are widely justified, if we also consider factors such as size, skills actually exercised, wealth produced. For these reasons, the choice of linear cuts, recently adopted by the government, was not only unfair, but ended up punishing virtuous realities and benefiting those less responsible. A linear cut in regional and local expenditure has a different effect depending on the skills exercised, aggregate expenditure, size and efficiency, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of management. And it is precisely the principle of responsibility that the real key can open up a new and profitable perspective not only for the future of regional autonomy - special and ordinary - but also for that of the country. Responsibility, however, requires clarity and certainty of relationships. Self-government needs clear relations with the state and certain rules. I was, until a few months ago, city council member of the Autonomous Province of Trento and I have very clear the difficulty to operate in an atmosphere of uncertainty and non-compliance with the statutory norms and the pacts signed. That is why I ask, also on behalf of the autonomous institutions, that the approach be changed, that there be respect for the autonomy that is the result of a complex and articulated historical and legal path, but also of decades of delicate political mediation. Focusing on the levels of territorial and local autonomy, it is clear that such a metamorphosis needs a regionalism that is profoundly different from the past. A regionalism based on strict principles of responsibility, of capacity for government, of attention to the most general interests, both local and national. A regionalism that focuses on responsible autonomy and not only on the decentralisation of spending capacity, which takes into account institutional and territorial specificities, the results obtained in terms of good governance and wealth produced, the ability to combine and not to oppose, particular interests and general interests. If we accept these assumptions, it is necessary not to give in to the simplistic temptations that lead to narrow the field and to choose the most comfortable way, imagining that we can bypass the complexity of the real country through the push verticalization of the state powers. All this calls into question and strongly relaunches the role of regionalism, a new role compared to past experience, but still respectful of its meanings, both in institutional and development terms. First of all, it should be pointed out that not all experiences are negative. Indeed, in some cases it can be said that regionalism has brought important results, both in terms of local responsibilities and in terms of government capacity and support for development processes. Compared to the weak points, however, it is essential to specify that these derive mainly from two different conditions by nature, but competing in their effects. The first is that, taking away the experiences of the Regions with a special statute, regionalism has in fact limited itself to a mere delegation of expenditure on a number of subjects absolutely contained: health and little more. The second is that, without real responsibilities, it is difficult for a ruling class and an institutional reality to grow adapted to the heavy responsibility to govern territorially contained realities, but not for this less difficult and complex to manage. So the solution can only concern the entire governance system, taking decisive and radical action on the two main areas of reference. First of all, the state, with the great transformations that have invested its role and functions, because of the increasing erosion of its powers by international bodies, for us Europe, and by the great players of global markets, finance in particular. Secondly, territorial authorities, which require the implementation of new strategies that can have a radical and positive impact on their role and ability to assume specific responsibilities and develop adequate operational capacities. discontinuous strategies compared to the past, even not recent, able to enhance the driving force of the territories, both by supporting their development and by making them responsible for their duties, local and national. Therefore, a global rethink of the entire chain of governance, taking into account what has changed in relations both upwards, due to the growing interdependence between States, as between markets, and downwards, due to the demanding protagonism of the real country, in all its multiple and varied constitutional realities. I am convinced that with this Government we will be able to start a useful discussion on all these issues. The initial signals, as I have already said, are positive, also, I repeat, for the precise emphasis of President Letta on the value of the autonomy. We therefore await the Note to the Document of Economics and Finance, with the hope that it will allow to give that first positive shock that opens a new season for our country. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u13	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u14	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, of all the measures that a Government analyses annually, without a doubt the Economic and Financial Document is a priority. I'd say priority. All the more so because, in such a difficult context and in a very complex political situation as the one we are experiencing, the measure, which gives a picture of the economic situation of the country, is undoubtedly also a fundamental document for planning the political and economic strategies of the short and medium term. We cannot fail to note, in this regard, how in the past years, and in particular during 2012, the forecasts contained in the DEF have been overly optimistic, providing an absolutely misleading picture and which has not yet been reflected. The economic situation that is provided to us by the analysis of this document, in fact, is extremely negative and worrying, with a collapse of the national industrial production that is estimated this year will unfortunately still present a negative sign, equal to -1,3 percent. The negative sign follows by a few months the final of 2012, when the recession marked a -2.4%, thus becoming a worrying negative signal for the economy of our country. And it couldn't be otherwise. How, in fact, can one think of relaunching a country, when the past Government imposed a centralist and burdensome tax, paid for most by the North, like the IMU? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Or how can an entrepreneur have the hope of restarting his own economic activity, his own company, when the tax burden has reached a level of more than 50%? This level is as intolerable and unsustainable as it is dangerous, socially and economically. Socially, because the number of entrepreneurs who commit suicide, narrowed by the slow payment of public administration or the difficulty of access to credit, has become intolerable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We know that well in Veneto, because we have already seen many, too many owners of companies take their lives to avoid the shame of declaring bankruptcy and consequently too many workers choose the same desperate solution. Economically, because a company that is oppressed by this level of tax pressure closes, it therefore no longer produces national product, i.e. GDP, and is forced to leave workers and employees without work. Whole families with a mortgage to be paid, which are found from today to tomorrow without a certainty of economic pay and consequently, sometimes, to choose the desperate solution of the entrepreneurs themselves. It is no coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, that among the worrying figures that the document brings to our attention are unemployment, which has also come to an ever worsening figure in Italy. According to data also confirmed by the European Commission, in 2013 the unemployment rate will reach 11.8%, then break the 12% threshold in 2014. The cause is simple: the economic recovery lacking or too slow to be able to give oxygen to a labour market in serious and difficult suffering. A situation that some social groups are experiencing in an even more dramatic way: the numbers are in fact merciless when it comes to young people and women. As many as 38 percent of the under 24 people today are unemployed, while unfortunately women still have a situation of great inequality with the other sex when it comes to finding work: in fact, compared with male unemployment estimated at 10.7%, we show that female unemployment is well above 12%. And what about those people, ladies and gentlemen, who are between 40 and 50 years of age, who often have a high level of professional training, behind years of work and contributions, but with no job prospects? An economic situation, therefore, which is very worrying, including that of the European Union itself, which today asks us to verify the measure under consideration. The possibility given by Brussels to our country to worsen the deficit-GDP ratio in order to free up financial spaces for the payment of public administration debts to our companies, in fact, is the clear and unequivocal signal that even the Euroverticians have finally understood what we have been supporting for too long: excessive austerity is killing the economic recovery. Certainly there is a positive news, which will probably also have repercussions in our country, if it is true that the current Government is thinking of reviewing the IMU. The hated municipal tax, voted by a very large parliamentary majority with the only firm and decisive opposition of the North League [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , has succeeded in a single year in the not easy enterprise to bring down the consumption of Italian families and put the municipalities in the impossibility to formulate their own budget. Today, however, at about one and a half years of its entry into force, we are expected to suspend the payment of the first instalment, so as to allow Italian families to reflate. This is an end that we can no doubt share, and on which we cannot fail to agree, in continuity with what we have already advocated back in 2011. But others are the necessary interventions. For example, refinance tax breaks for building renovations, so that this sector can breathe again, particularly in the northern areas. Or to facilitate the women's business initiative; we have seen how women, while unemployed and losing jobs, have the ability to reappear with these companies and with these activities, which, however, often need breathing and refinancing. However, we would like to understand, quite rightly, how the Government will find the resources to cover this choice concerning the IMU and what else it will want to refinance, that if on the one hand it can make people happy, of course, on the other it risks sending the coffers of the Italian municipalities into disarray. Let us remember that next 30 June is the final date for local authorities to approve the budget. We therefore ask ourselves: what will the Italian mayors have to put in the budget when bringing this important document to the municipal council for the life of a municipality, for the future of Italian citizens and municipalities? We are equally radiant with the news that the government is finalizing that it can refinance the fund by way of derogation. For the note and already analysed difficult employment situation, made even more complex by the sadly known question of exodus (another topic on which the Government will have to commit), heavy and burdensome legacy of the outgoing Government [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , fresh resources would be pure oxygen for workers. However, it remains unclear how the Commission will support this action, which we too can only share. I repeat, while sharing the aims of some actions, all the more urgent in the light of the worrying data of the DEF, our movement wants first of all to understand whether these choices will really find positive finalization or if, rather, they will remain so many beautiful words in a book of dreams that Italians can only read. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u15	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the analysis of today's Economic and Financial Document is, in my opinion, the first real opportunity for this Government: an opportunity to rethink a sound economic policy, that can look at growth, that can raise the fate of the country and that can look to the future in a perspective of foresight, without neglecting the social importance that these initiatives involve. And it is precisely in the DEF, also in the light of what Minister Saccomeni said, that we must and can try to create that balance between citizens' guarantees, economic growth and debt containment. The existence of these three guidelines of government action does not result in a conflict. These are operational principles that are not excluded and never, as in this period, deserve to be strictly protected in an overall approach. We know that, from an economic and financial point of view, the 2013 DEF has the objective of defining the balance of the budget in structural terms, illustrating what the previous government has done and how much more it should be implemented to meet the commitments already made. We are also fully aware that the consolidation action carried out in recent months has led to significant results, not without reflection on the primary levels of economic guarantee of the less well-off citizens. Firstly, we are talking about the rebalancing of public finances. Such advances represent the breeding ground for all initiatives aimed at the economic rebirth of the country. Let us remember that Italy has brought the government deficit below the 3% of GDP threshold, in line with the European recommendations. And these results, clearly expressed in the Document, must provide the starting point for the actions that the Government is going to undertake, in line also with the articulated program speech of President Letta last week. The DEF itself shows that reforms are an indispensable part of the country's growth path, precisely because the initiatives so far structured in the area of competitiveness and the fight against the crisis will lead to an additional increase in GDP over the medium to long term. But this urgent process of rehabilitation has left too many gaps open and unfortunately the current situation gives us a clear confirmation of this. That is why I felt that the Government's commitment to a rewriting of certain parts of the document was indispensable, precisely in order to review some points of it in a perspective of protecting not only the state's coffers, but also those of the citizens: the victims par excellence of the reflections of austerity. The aim, I believe, is to review a number of points, introducing more incisive and more responsive measures in the National Reform Plan to the priorities set out by this Commission. My attention is once again focused on the urgent need to review the changes made in recent weeks by the Government to the DEF in the matter of IMU, which have foreseen the stabilization of tax beyond 2015, creating a real social loss, especially in the less well-off citizens. On this point, it is clear to everyone that the heavy political and media speculation on the subject is creating some confusion among citizens, who end up understanding little or none of these dynamics and find it difficult to understand what rule is really applied. Another eighty confusion is to be traced back to those who instead push for the indiscriminate abolition of the IMU, placing it almost on condition of the survival of the Government. At this point, we have to ask how the approximately 4 billion debt that would result from the complete abolition of the IMU on the first house could be filled, but we give ourselves the answer: pure demagogy. Of course, the contextualisation of taxes should be an indispensable operational principle: it pays who has and pays less who has less; but we must maintain a high level of pragmatism, without which we do not go very far. Precisely in view of the above, in this particular scenario we cannot afford to underestimate the economic and social weight of initiatives such as these. Safeguarding the revenue deriving from the application of the tax beyond 2015 certainly seems necessary, but it can certainly be done by other means and in other ways, not infusing on a sacred good like the house, especially if this is the first home of the family and not a habitation. The value of the tax for the protection of families in difficulty, large families, citizens in a state of poverty and citizens living abroad, which is forced to pay important sums for buildings that the law considers to be first home, is therefore urgent. For example, Italians with residence abroad often have small real estate units in Italy, sometimes in small countries: paradoxically, although Law No 75 of 1993 defines it as "first home", the compatriots pay us an IMU increased, as if it were a second home. Our compatriots do not call for exemption, but for the 1993 law to be respected. Let us not forget, moreover, the case of pensioners living in nursing homes, who are also forced to pay an IMU increased. All this because the current legislation provides the principle of discretion of the municipalities in determining the tax, and try to guess, in the end, what type of tax the municipality chooses for these categories. We are therefore only here to ask for clarity. In this scenario, the cancellation of the payment of the June instalment of the tax, with a special decree in the next few days, represents an important starting point; only in this way will it be possible to reason on new and more incisive methods of intervention on the side of the management of the real estate taxes. It should be remembered that, behind the rules, rates and deductions, there are people, there are primary goods and there are difficulties. Until now, the urgency dictated by the recession and debt containment measures has legitimized equally questionable initiatives in terms of social resilience. Ours, therefore, is a double responsibility: to safeguard the balances, but to pay attention to the pockets of the citizens. There are many areas in which action is needed and there are clear measures and selected actions: from labour market reform to the reduction of the tax wedge, through support for businesses and liberalisation measures. Starting from this assumption, we await the Update Note to the Document of Economics and Finance that has been announced by the Government, with the hope that a renewed perspective will be given to the reforms on which the future of the country's growth is based. The invitation that we want to address to everyone is lucidity, putting aside unnecessary political speculation and demagogy, because we are not in the election campaign. The only guideline for every single government action must be the good of the country. This time, however, not in words, but in deeds, with laws and with the cutting of privileges. Colleagues, let us not miss this opportunity to regain the country's confidence in politics. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we note with regret and concern that in the Economic and Financial Document there is no mention of the chronic problems of the Italian school and that, in line with previous governments, we are in a position to propose a policy of cuts that has already led to the reduction of 132,000 jobs between teachers and technical and auxiliary administrative staff (ATA). It is also stated that it wants to combat inefficiency and waste, but the feeling is that it is not always waste that is punished, but rather that it is hitting a substantial part of the quality that is our future, to which we should always aspire. A principle that Italy does not seem to want to follow, according to the recent OECD 2012 Report, which sees our country, with investments of 4.5% of GDP, still below the European average, equal to 5.7%. It is clear that the new government must show courage, taking real responsibility for the concrete problems that have oppressed the school for too long: the still high percentage of young people who abandon the path of study, the precariousness, the strategies of connection between school and the world of work still insufficient. The 5 Star Movement strongly doubts that these problems can be solved with the new political subject represented by the "Governissimo" PD-PdL, whose intention of wanting to form an Executive on a programmatic basis risks remaining valid only on paper with regard to the school. Analyzing the programmes presented in the electoral campaign, in fact, it is difficult to find common points that indicate how practicable the path of shared policies. The strong fear is therefore that this time too we will miss the opportunity to achieve the objective of a serious renewal of education and that the resolution of the problems will be further postponed to the date to be allocated or, worse, vents to the usual improvised patchwork that now satisfies the one now the other political side, but which displeases and damages the operators and the users of the school. The evaluation system outlined by the DEF and the regulation of the national school evaluation system also requires reflections that lead us to say that, although we are not opposed to the evaluation system in general, there are many critical points. Schools are at risk of being reduced to purely the subject of evaluation and not an active part of the process. It remains vague how the training of inspectors is to be organised. The general objectives of the school system coincide with the improvement of the quality of training and, at the same time, the subject and content of the evaluation are not well specified. This last point is crucial. The explanation of the idea of school to which reference is intended is an unavoidable prerequisite for the construction of a national evaluation system; evaluation cannot consist in formulating graduations between schools and rewarding the best; it does not make sense to evaluate schools without periodic interventions aimed, on the one hand, at qualifying the teacher's professionalism and, on the other hand, at activating paths of improvement of learning which, subsequently, in defined times, can be evaluated. Finally, with regard to the Invalsi test, it is necessary to claim an idea of narrative and procedural evaluation that does not see the training paths as linear paths on which either you go ahead or you go back, or you are promoted or rejected, but as circular processes of which the evaluation describes, from time to time, the gaps and the strengths that the student or the school develops. An idea of evaluation strongly in contradiction with the simplistic one that the Invalsi tests represent; an evaluation based on research, independent from the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR), that supports an idea of public, universalistic and democratic school. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u19	Senator Bofrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u20	Madam President, colleagues, colleagues and representatives of the Government, the most significant aspect of this document, referring to the next three years, seemed to me to be the further adjustment of the forecasts made in the DEF 2012-2014 and in the related Update Note last September. Since then, in a nutshell, the 2013 DEF predicts a decrease in GDP this year by 1.3%, compared to the 0.2% of the September Note, while at the same time revising the forecast growth of gross domestic product for 2014, that 1.3% against 1.1 recorded in the September Note, perhaps thanks above all to the strength of the agriculture sector, described so well yesterday by Senator Pignedoli and Senator Stefano in the discussion on the anticyclical force of this sector. On the other hand, the deterioration for this year follows, as Senator Azzollini recalled a few days ago in the Commission, from a work of continuous maintenance of the programming tools to take account of economic variables in the phase of continuous change; a constant mutation, however sought mainly on the side of the entrance and that has produced in fact a tightening effect of the Italian economy which, on the other hand, is expected to return to grow again in the next year for reasons essentially attributable to the placing of liquidity in the system, decided by the recent decree-law n. 35. On this point, the DEF points out that in the absence of the release of payments of government commercial debts to its creditors, GDP growth in 2014 would have been around 0.6%. Moreover, positive measures to accelerate public administration debt payments will also influence output performance in subsequent years, where GDP is expected to grow by 1.5% in 2015, by 1.3% in 2016 and 1.4% in 2017. This means that a policy characterized by the "rigor for rigour" does not pay - the excessive cost of a too extensive fiscal severity reminded us of it also the IMF last April - and that, instead, it is necessary to implement policies for growth. Of course, the results achieved in terms of net debt or primary surplus - the best, the Italian one, after the German one - are undoubtedly positive. And to reach this year, without uncertainty, a deficit not exceeding the fateful 3% means the closure, at last, of the excessive deficit procedure launched in 2009, a procedure that, moreover, is common to many countries of the European Union: I remember that not only Estonia, Finland, Malta and Germany are subject to it. But the possible repeal of the procedure does not mean that Italy has come out of the emergency. The maintenance of order in the public accounts is a condition that we cannot derogate from. We must be prepared to settle this necessary condition with others sufficient to sustain growth. Balanced budget and growth policies are not incompatible. Therefore, the effort to contain and retrain public expenditure must certainly be continued, but it is time to add to it measures that have a clear impact on the real economy. First of all, the significant reduction in the tax burden causes not only imbalance in the tax burden and the loss of fiscal loyalty, but also distortions in the supply of inputs, unfair competition and, last but not least, the lack of dimensional growth of companies. A serious review of tax legislation would allow, on the one hand, to intervene on business costs - especially with regard to IRAP - and finally on the tax wedge; on the other hand, it would make it possible to give families back some of the availability they have lost in recent years. But the possibility of saving also passes through an improvement in the patrimonial situation of the families in which the house plays a central role, especially for the middle class, already tartassato from the fiscal automatisms. In this sense, I find it very important that in these days our political side has made a serious appeal to the other majority forces to rethink the "stabilization" of the IMU, which has been foreseen in this DEF. The IMU on the house is not just an accounting post. It is an almost ideological intervention on a primary aspect not only of our economy, but also of our way of conceiving the family. And the taxation on the house that was introduced experimentally last year seems to us a penalizing measure, in all senses, also for that municipal autonomy inspired by the IMU provided by the Berlusconi Government, for example, expropriated largely by the State, as my colleague Zanoni pointed out in a speech this morning. Well, then, that the Government has expressed the will to suspend payment of the deposit next June. A decision must lead to a revision of the overall structure of property taxation, which should be based on the revision of the land register and the elimination of taxation on the first house. A measure, the latter, also necessary in order to avoid a sort of double taxation on that primary asset: everyone remembers that a property on buildings exists in many European countries and is often cited France, for example, but nobody shows that beyond the income assumed by the first house is not subject, as in Italy, to personal taxation, and is even more right my colleague Zanoni who first intervened on this subject: the attachment ISEE would not solve any problem, indeed perhaps it would aggravate it. A measure, the abolition, which will not call into question the structural balance that we are about to achieve: 4 billion is a figure that can be recovered within our public budget. But the IMU is not only a burden for individuals and families, it is a burden that is hanging more and more the enterprise, especially the small and medium-sized enterprise. Simply read the data of a recent survey promoted by the CNA. Finally, significant growth aid can come from public debt relief operations, to which the privatisation operations provided for in the Document would contribute. However, more drastic action would be needed: it is certainly not possible to continue to bear a burden of around 4.5% on GDP for debt servicing. Specific measures, such as the establishment of an extraordinary fund, on the basis of the one proposed by the distinguished economist Francesco Forte, aimed at regaining our government bonds on the secondary market and at "collateralising" the emissions in the medium and long term (by accompanying them a real guarantee) for 20% of their facial value. I think that an intervention like this would operate jointly with the Fund save States, with the aim of improving the credibility of Italy on the markets and freeing itself from the dictatorship of the spread that, as we have understood, does not depend on individual factors or individuals, freeing resources to be allocated to the development and reduction of the tax burden, which I believe is the objective of all of us, but in particular of the People of Freedom. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Sangalli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u21	Senator Sangalli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u22	Madam President, the debate on this document on economics and finance has been wide-ranging, and I must say that it is too broad compared to a document which has an obvious and inevitable limit. It takes a picture of the financial situation of our country, it identifies the macroeconomic quantities but it has a definite, objective and justified deficiency in the National Plan of Reforms, because we are at a DEF that is presented by a government at the same time when another government is installed that, on the part of the policies of the reforms, will have to say new things starting from the situation of the economy that we have. I don't want to make a complex speech, but I want to say something simple and maybe not even absolutely scientific. The first consideration I would like to make is that it is better that we do not forget where we ended up a year and a half ago: we were in a situation of disastrous public finance, with a substantial loss of control of the public accounts, in a situation of rising fall in the credibility of our country compared to the European institutions, but what is even more serious than the international markets. This was the situation in which we had arrived and on which we would risk to pay over time a rate of service of public debt frankly extremely high and unbearable, until the country failed. This was the situation that saw the Government and the majority that had formed in the condition of putting in place a series of measures that have acted mainly on public expenditure and state revenue. Thus, taxation has increased, which has reached a very high level, and a potentially procyclical circle has been created with respect to the recession of the country. The National Reform Plan must now be put in place to accompany the recovery phase, with a phase that pushes on growth, especially - I stress - that part of gross domestic product that does not come from public expenditure or taxation, but that derives from our competition on the markets, from market GDP, made by companies, from manufacturing, from our ability to attract investment, from our ability to be dynamic and credible on the international markets. We have come to a situation where tax stress for businesses and taxpayers is jeopardising competitiveness, consumption and investment. This brings difficulties not only in the real economy, but also in the state's revenue side, if it is true that we have EUR 10.2 billion less revenue from indirect taxes, and this is due to the fact that we have, in fact, less wealth available. A tax reform plan is needed to bring about a substantial rebalancing of the levy for labour and businesses. Something has to be done that was already in the National Reform Plan and that is being taken over a little too easily in this Plan. For example, we need to reduce - as Europe demands and as we wrote in the National Reform Plan - the burden on the administrative management of businesses by 25%. An easy target is defined: this objective is so easy to achieve that nothing has been done [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , no monitoring has started, no intervention has started that sets in motion a more efficient public administration. The objective of the control of territorial administrations by the central state is also considered as an easy-to-achieve objective, but nothing has started and there is no rapid control procedure: on the contrary, simplification is getting farther and farther away. As far as industrial policies are concerned, it is necessary to start again, at last, to make industrial policy. For thirty years our country has renounced the concept of industrial policy, which - I would like to remind you - is that part of the economic policy that deals with industry, trade, economy and markets and that therefore deals with what must really increase the GDP of our country's market. We have too much public GDP, which has made many think that with more taxes and with more public spending you can keep a country standing. In fact, in order to keep the country standing, we need to create value and this is created if we put companies - especially small ones - in a position to compete, to enhance their human capital, to make networks between them, to make promotion, to make internationalization and if, as the President of the Council has advised us in yesterday's intervention at the Expo in Milan, we give ourselves a bit of desire and a bit of ambition. We are in fact a country that has shown individual ambitions for too many years, but is not ambitious as a country. Confindustria challenges us and tells us to reach the 20% share of GDP in five years - starting from the current 16% - in manufacturing. This is an ambitious objective, which requires an industrial policy: let us put it among the objectives of the National Reform Plan. We are told from all over the economic world that in ten years we can reach a 20% share of GDP by focusing on tourism and revenue in this sector, while now we are at 12%. Six years ago we were second in the world: now we have become eighth in the world for attraction of tourists. This is an ambitious objective and we can put it on schedule in ten years. We are told that we need to value cultural heritage and that it is money if it is well valued. It is an ambitious objective and can be achieved by giving itself a multiannual programme. We need to re-start credit for small businesses, stifled by a lack of credit. It seemed impossible to find the 40 billion for the payments of public administration debts to companies; it seemed impossible to do so, it is done with a very complex measure, yet it is possible to do so: it is done because before the accounts were healed, otherwise the 0.5% that brought us to 2.9 percent of gross domestic debt-to-GDP ratio would not have been found. Starting the financing of enterprises means - as the wise men have pointed out to the President of the Republic - giving back dimension to a society that organizes itself and find - I address to Minister Saccomanni who knows what we are talking about - also forms of financing to companies that go on the capital markets and make the relationship between small enterprises and the market easier...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u23	Senator Sangalli, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u24	Sangalli (PD). Excuse me, Madam President. We must find the necessary dimension to our economic system, which is not what we would like to have: we have neither Siemens nor Philips, but we have millions of small companies that can represent the great competitive capacity of our country if we only know how to value them for what they are. That's what we are. Madam President, thank you for your kindness. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u25	The debate is closed. I would like to say that, in addition to the two motions for resolutions received yesterday by the Presidency, the motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta and Ferrara Mario has already been printed and distributed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Ghedini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u26	Madam President, we have seen an extremely involved debate, which certainly takes into account the political phase in which the debate on the Economic and Financial Document takes place and, as highlighted in the presentation of the report, also the fact that we are in a transitional phase and we are debating a document which - already at the start of the debate in these two days - has to be updated. All the speeches have put in place a very broad excursus of possible recipes that I believe find a point of convergence in the need to overcome the current recession by starting policies for growth. I believe that although we have listened to very different recipes, there are some points on which convergence can be found. I refer, in particular, to the request to the Government to find the forms and resources to relaunch productive investments in different sectors, to give space to the finance of local authorities, to mitigate the tax burden on labour, families and businesses, with particular reference to the peculiar system, also last remembered, of entrepreneurship in our country. I simply conclude by pointing out that we are all aware - and the Government through Prime Minister Letta reminded us in his speech of settlement - that the document of economy and finance will have to be updated. Therefore, I repeat that today's task of Parliament is to confirm the conditions contained in the document of economy and finance that allow Italy to overcome the procedure for excessive deficit, and then proceed with a correction to open a new phase that proposes to the country measures for growth. [[Applause from Senator Angioni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u27	I call Mr Saccomanni, Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, to whom I would ask you to indicate what motion for a resolution you intend to accept on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u28	Madam President, first of all I would like to apologize for not being able to see the debate fully: I was here yesterday afternoon and I listened to the reports of the majority and minority rapporteurs and this morning I listened to the final part of the debate, but I was involved in the debate on the same document. I understand that the debate, which has been very rich in proposals and ideas, has provided a wide range of suggestions, as the majority rapporteur mentioned earlier, and I can assure you that all these suggestions will be taken into account in the revision of this important document. It is a document that must certainly be updated to take account of the needs that have matured in the country in relation to the economic situation, which continues to be negative, and that can be updated for the better, in the sense that already assumes a burden for the service of the public debt probably higher than that that that has already been realized with the reduction of the interest rates on the financial markets in recent weeks, in spite of the political uncertainties. I believe that the passage we now have to face, that of the European Commission's decision to end the excessive deficit procedure, is a fundamental point that will have a further positive impact on the level of spreads and interest rates, and therefore also on the financing conditions of our banks and on international markets, and therefore on their ability to transfer financial resources to the economy, particularly to small and medium-sized enterprises. The first fundamental phase that we are therefore faced with is the closure of the excessive deficit procedure. There are all the premises, as has also been pointed out with the public finance projections recently approved by the European Commission, but there is also a great deal of attention from the Commission itself to the debate currently taking place in Parliament following the policy lines announced by the President-in-Office of the Council. The second stage of this procedure is the revision of the Economic and Financial Document, in particular with regard to the national reform programme, which will certainly have to take account of the policy lines expressed by the President of the Council in his speech of confidence and which - as I recall - also provides for immediate but also longer-term measures which can be taken in the context of the planned structural reforms. From this point of view therefore the approval of the Document of economy and finance in the conditions in which it is found is an important step that can allow us to proceed with confidence already from the next weeks. Next Monday and Tuesday I will attend the meeting of the Eurogroup and Ecofin in Brussels and have Parliament's support for the DEF will be a very important element that I can make use of. Therefore, all this allowed, I express the acceptance by the Government of motion for resolution No. 3, signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta and Ferrara Mario.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u29	Colleagues, the Government has therefore expressed its intention to accept motion for a resolution No. 3, pursuant to and for the effects of Article 125-a, paragraph 4, last sentence of the Rules of Procedure. It is therefore now time for the Groups to put forward amending proposals relating to the text of the same resolution for an hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u30	I now invite the Senator Secretary to read the letter sent to the Presidency by Senator Massimo Garavaglia, who arrived on 6 May 2013, to present his resignation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u31	The letter was sent to the President of the Senate, Senator Pietro Grasso, to the President of the Regional Council of Lombardy, Mr Roberto Maroni, and to the President of the Council of the Lombardy Region, Dr Raffaele Cattaneo. I shall read: Object: resignation from the office of Senator of the Republic. I undersigned Massimo Garavaglia with the present, I resign as Senator of the Republic from today. I take this opportunity to offer you cordial greetings. Massimo Garavaglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u32	Since the resignation was based on incompatibility, pursuant to Article 122 of the Constitution, the Assembly can only take note of it. I would also like to remind you that during the session of the Council for the Rules of Procedure of 9 April 2013, the powers of the Provisional Council for the verification of powers, as provided for in Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure, were extended until the formation of the Council for the elections and parliamentary immunities. I hereby authorize the Provisional Board for the Verification of Powers to convene immediately to proceed with the determination of the successor candidate to the resigning senator. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume in an hour with explanations of vote and the final vote on the Economic and Financial Document. (The sitting was suspended at 11 a.m. and resumed at 12.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u33	The session is resumed. I inform you that the Provisional Board for the verification of the powers has communicated that, having to provide, pursuant to article 19 of the legislative decree 20 December 1993, n. 533, to the attribution of the seat rendered vacant in the Lombardy Region following the resignation of Senator Massimo Garavaglia, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senator belonged is Paolo Naccarato. I acknowledge the Provisional Junta for the verification of the powers of this communication and proclaim Senator Paolo Naccarato. I warn you that from now on it will start with regard to the new proclaimed the 20-day deadline for the submission of any complaints.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u36	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, only to announce the signing of motion for a resolution No 3 by the Group for the Autonomies as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u37	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario and Fravezzi, accepted by the Government pursuant to Article 125- bis, paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on which an amendment has been tabled within the prescribed deadline set by the Conference of Leaders, which I invite the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u38	Mr President, we appreciated the words of the President-in-Office of the Council in relation to the suspension of the June instalment of the IMU and the position taken by the secretaries of the parties and representatives of the Government with regard to the need for a remodulation of the single municipal tax itself with regard to the main dwelling. Therefore, we find in the DEF an inconsistency with these declarations, because the tax is considered experimental, but stable, we believe that in the majority resolution, already accepted by the Government, the suspension of the payment of the June installment, the remodulation of the taxation on the real estate that already involves, in the current year, the repeal of the tax for the main houses, the guarantee that the municipalities are guaranteed the transfers that would be less with the suspension of the payment of the installment of June and the finding of the resources necessary for the reimbursement of what paid for the year 2012.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u39	Before giving the floor to the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, I would like to inform you that another amendment, on 3.2, was tabled, signed by Senator Olivero. I therefore briefly suspend the sitting to allow this amendment to be distributed and read. (The sitting was suspended at 12.07 a.m. and resumed at 12.13 p.m.) Colleagues, let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u42	Mr Ghedini Rita, rapporteur. Mr President, I would ask you to allow a new suspension, possibly for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, because the first amendment tabled requires a thorough examination, given that it affects the balances.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u43	I would suspend the work for ten minutes because we also have obligations relating to the Commissions which, as you know, are convened from 3 p.m., and so I would not want our work to exceed the scheduled time. Mr Ghedini Rita, rapporteur. I understand, Mr President, and thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.14 p.m. and resumed at 12.33 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I would ask the rapporteur whether she is able to give her opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u44	Mr President, I would need some more time to make a more detailed assessment of Amendment 3.1, at the first signature of Senator Calderoli, which, by its very nature, is extremely demanding. I therefore ask whether you can allow another 20 minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u45	I can suspend the sitting for another ten minutes, bearing in mind that at 3 p.m. some committees are convened, then follow the others, and explanations of vote must be made. In this regard, I also appeal to the Groups to consider the need to vote late in the morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u46	I inform you that the parliamentary groups have appointed their representatives to the standing committees, the composition of which will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. I'm suspending the session for ten minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 12.34 p.m. and resumed at 12.47 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u47	The session is resumed. I call on colleagues to take their seats again. I call on the rapporteur to comment on Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Bitonci.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for your time to consider Amendment 3.1. Since the contents of the amending proposal under consideration, at the first signature of Senator Calderoli, have a reference to the next Update Note to be presented by the Government (this is one of the issues to which the Note should refer to the Economic and Finance Document), I would be willing to accept it as an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u49	I would ask the representative of the Government whether she agrees with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u50	Yes, Mr President, I agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u53	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am satisfied with the position taken by the rapporteur. I am glad that a subject so dear and delicate has been the subject of our assessments. I hope, of course, that what we have said today will be remembered in all future steps, because I will be ready to come back to this every time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u54	Amendment 3.1 will therefore not be put to the vote. Amendment 3.2 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u57	URAS (Misto-SEL). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been clear from our speech in general debate, as an SEL member of the Mixed Group, we shall vote against the motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by the majority. We will vote against in particular because it seems to us that the document of economy and finance repeats exactly the guidelines taken by the previous government in the previous legislature by throwing our country, almost definitively, within an emerging management without positive outlet guidelines, effective support to the productive system, to relaunch employment, to block the deep crisis of our society. This position, which ends up making the living conditions of important sections of our population even more difficult and supporting, rather than countering, processes of impoverishment of Italian families. It is for this reason, that is, because of the sense of continuity that is given by this resolution to the action of the Government and this beginning of the legislature, that we will vote against. We will also do so in order to represent, with the civilization that distinguishes us, a true opposition that does not discount this governance, an improper arrangement with respect to the instruments of expression of electoral consent, an improper arrangement with respect to the nature of the subjects that make up the current majority and support the Government. So there are two issues: firstly - as we have already pointed out - continuity with past management, and secondly, the fact that this Government is characterized by mutual actions of contrast between truly different components, expression of years of very strong political contrast also in the institutions. One example is Amendment 3.1, tabled by the North and Autonomous League, at the first signature of Senator Calderoli, that we would have voted for three quarters of its content, not being, at present, in agreement with the return of the IMU sums before the financial coverage is guaranteed to the deepest needs of our country. I am referring in particular to the derogation fund, and to mobility by way of derogation, because this means tackling the income problems of many families and we cannot pretend that this issue is not on the agenda. It seems to us quite enlightening that we have made the decision to arrive at an agenda which demonstrates the difficulty of accepting those contents in a firm and shared way by the whole majority. For these reasons we shall therefore vote against. We will do this as the first formal expression of our opposition to this Government, but also as the first civil, politically and institutionally correct expression of our opposition to this Government and to this majority. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u60	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Grand Autonomous and Freedom Group will vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 3. However, we cannot forget that today we are evaluating a document in a somewhat abnormal situation. It was, in fact, prepared by a Government that is no longer in office and that had in its programmatic references proposals different from those of the current Government. The DEF is still lacking in our examination of the National Reform Programme provided for by the Accounting Act. The Monti Government had not presented it; in its place there is only an analysis of the implementation of the approved reforms, which, moreover, saw the Mezzogiorno in a position of constant subalternity and penalization. A large part of the DEF plant is therefore overtaken. The Letta Government will have to prepare the National Reform Programme and send it to the Chambers together with the Update Note to the DEF, to be presented as soon as possible, taking into account the programmatic indications of April 29, on which the Government has requested and obtained, confidence. This debate then becomes basically an opportunity for this Government: an opportunity to listen to Parliament's thoughts regarding the preparation of the Update Note. Then there will be the real debate on economic policy choices. I would like to remind you that the Letta Government's policy statements propose non-negligible changes in fiscal policies. We are talking about the suspension and abolition of the IMU (which is what we are asking for) and the renunciation of the application of the increase in the VAT rate: choices over which new and different revenue or expenditure cuts will have to be foreseen to cover the lower revenue; conditions that obviously could not be considered in the DEF. But first of all there is the need to determine a real change of course starting from the valorization of the resources that up to now have remained underused. And the first great resource underused, in our opinion, is represented by our Mezzogiorno. If the South resumes to grow, the whole of Italy starts again; Italy grows if the South grows, says the SVIMEZ: "Italy must rely heavily on the possibility to reactivate the development of the South, defining the conditions that, with immediate anti-conjunctural effectiveness, have the breath of an action aimed at strategic objectives of national value." We have a series of emergencies: the first is that of work, in particular that of young people and women. We need more work, more work for everyone; we need work in the South. In Germany, half of the population is permanently occupied. Job stability is reduced to 38% in our country and even stable work in the Mezzogiorno is below 28%. Unemployment figures are dramatic: 11.6 percent, twice as high as the 2007 figures, and it is estimated that unemployment levels in the South account for 39% of young people and 50% of young women. These are dramatic data that determine a perverse spiral that inhibits every possibility of development. And short-term estimates are not encouraging, without considering the forecasts of international bodies that provide us with even more worrying data. We need to relaunch welfare, not by restricting ourselves to social security and shock absorbers and by identifying in this revival not only an opportunity to improve the quality of citizenship, but a concrete opportunity to build a new season of cohesion, which is what our country needs. The defence of the weakest and a credible system of protection against poverty can themselves become a flywheel to restart a positive spiral for development. In this regard, I would like to point out that expenditure is reduced due to the known economic difficulties and that Italian families have also reduced expenditure in two essential areas such as food, with a 3% reduction and even health, with a 2.5% reduction. These figures are worrying, not only because poverty risks sucking up thousands of families, but also overall, for the whole economy, which suffers in a very serious way. We must focus on the development of the territory, the environment and cultural heritage, especially in the Mezzogiorno. In such an important choice, it is also possible to identify extraordinary opportunities for development and new occupations. But it will not be possible to have an authentic revival of the development if one forgets to promote the strengthening and the completion of the infrastructural and logistic networks, lacking, above all to the South, rethinking, for example the choices on the Bridge of the previous Government and aiming on the improvement and, on the completion of the railway net in Sicily and the Regions of the Mezzogiorno. There will be no recovery unless there is the capacity to promote the integration of the southern production system into the international market with appropriate support measures. There will be no revival if we do not aim at energy sources, especially renewable ones, particularly important for the South and also for the whole country, to help achieve the objective, fundamental for the national economy, of reducing the rate of dependence on energy from abroad. We look forward to the Additional Note to the DEF, on which we know that Minister Saccomanni is working, but we want to highlight some priorities: to anticipate to 1 July 2013 the deductions of the IRAP that the law of stability provides only from 2014 (I remember: 7,500 euros of deductions for permanent employees, 13.500 euros for women and the under 35, that become 15,000 and 21,000 euros in the areas of the Mezzogiorno); to increase the deductions for small enterprises, those that have less than 10 employees, especially in the Mezzogiorno; to revise the Stability Pact, administering the oxygen that serves municipalities and enterprises; to revive fiscal federalism, allowing the municipalities to have the resources that derive from the taxation of their competence. A moment ago we exchanged with Senator Calderoli this consideration: we fly high - and it is right - but we are careful, because we risk planing and finding the majority of our municipalities "jumped." We are still calling for a 50% increase in deductions for dependent children: this would be a fundamental step for low and medium-income families and especially for those in southern areas. We also need to rethink the possibility of creating large areas of benefit taxation and these initiatives must be put into practice in Europe: they could be a model to suggest to Europe's friends for all disadvantaged areas. It is precisely the lack of a comprehensive strategy and serious coordination that has led to the failure of the policies put in place so far. The goal is therefore to achieve an interactive process between the Southern Regions and the Central Government, a process that will once again ensure unity and a unique strategic vision for the development of the country. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u63	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the economic framework outlined in the Economic and Financial Document confirms what has already been anticipated with the Update Note examined last March, namely the downward revision of the growth prospects of our economy, estimating for 2013 a decrease in GDP of -1,3 per cent, while growth is expected in the following years of 1.3% for 2014 and 1.5% for 2015. There is also a positive export figure, which grows with an average figure of 3%, and the primary surplus, which in the latest projections is expected to be 3.8 percent of GDP in 2014, to grow to 5.7 percent in 2017: this would be the best result across Europe. This will open spaces for us to take advantage in future of the desired productive investments that can stimulate growth. On the other hand, we are concerned about the unemployment rate, which is our real emergency, which is, unfortunately, expected to increase to 11.8% in 2014. The situation of serious economic and financial crisis in which our country finds itself, as well as being linked to external factors of an international character, is the result of short-sighted decisions, whose aim was to solve problems in the very short term, without worrying about the consequences they would have created in the years or decades to come. Today, these policies deal with the need to be accountable in Europe, following joint commitments signed and linked to the single currency, and have generated awareness in all of us and in many citizens that we can no longer return to the so-called cheerful finance of the past that has left us the legacy of a very heavy public debt. To give an example, the exquisitely political abolition of the ICI on the first house, greeted with enthusiasm then, resulted in the need to make, a few years later, the introduction of a new tax, the very hated IMU, much more rigid and expensive for taxpayers' pockets than the old ICI, but necessary to cover the lower revenues of the Erario for the year 2012. The President-in-Office of the Council, in his programmatic speech, announced the suspension of the collection of the IMU in June in order to have time to revise the overall system of the tax or, indeed, to overcome it definitively. We hope, however, that this will not penalise the municipalities which, thanks to it, are able to provide essential services for families. So we hope, and in this sense we will make our contribution, that with the law of stability we will be able to have a new measure more fair to young couples and to the income groups medium-low owners of the main dwelling, but that we also take charge of the instrumental real estate, fundamental for those who produce wealth and work. Staying on the subject that also affects local authorities, we appreciate the will expressed by the Government to revise the Internal Stability Pact, which severely restricts the financial and management autonomy of the municipalities, at least of the most virtuous. Greater flexibility in the Pact would allow them to make selective investments or the necessary extraordinary maintenance on existing infrastructure. These are investments that, above all, guarantee jobs and new tax revenues. The State's investments in public infrastructure projects, listed in the National Reform Plan, which should also be updated, must be fully realised and relaunched, both as they are necessary to recover our atavistic deficit in this area and as they would benefit both economic growth and employment. However, they are restrained by the level of public debt, which represents our ballast. Its reduction is one of the responses that the National Reform Plan has undertaken to give to the recommendations made by the European Council with the implementation of a plan of disposals of the assets, of which the census is being completed, and then entrust its relative valorization and disposal to the newly constituted savings management company. We trust that the new government will immediately implement the objectives of the so-called "fund of funds" because every day the debt passes grows. In this respect, it is essential to approve this DEF, because it will also enable us to benefit from the so-called golden rule, agreed at European level. It should be noted that the DEF prepared by the Monti Government has set a course, which is not wise to abandon after all the sacrifices made by the country, in order to bring us to the structural objective of balanced budget, according to the Community commitments entered into and as a necessary condition to get our country out of the excessive deficit procedure, opened by the European Commission in 2009. This result must now be safeguarded and, in our view, consolidated with further action, not on the revenue side, but on that of rationalization and redevelopment of public expenditure. In this regard, the plan suggested by Professor Javazzi, which proposes to cut the ineffective incentives for companies, could be useful, devoting the resources thus saved to the reduction of the tax wedge. Therefore, action must be taken to eliminate waste and undue privileges. This is a very necessary action if we are to restore credibility and trust in the institutions. In fact, with the vote in February, which has so deeply renewed Parliament, the Italians have launched a clear warning to politics, so that the institutions are concretely committed to the common good, that is, to address and resolve the real problems of the country. However, it took the direct intervention of the President of the Republic to give us the shock, to help us form a government of responsibility, service and necessity. A responsibility and a need that the parties have assumed because we are aware that the suffering of families, businesses and institutions themselves asks us for immediate and urgent answers. The clear evidence of this discomfort, as the DEF itself points out, is the sharp decrease in domestic demand, which contributes negatively to the formation of GDP. In fact, household spending and investment capacity have been reduced and, as the Bank of Italy recorded in March, there has been a sharp deterioration in the confidence of both consumers and businesses. And confidence is the sine qua non so that a virtuous cycle of the economy, labour and consumption can begin. Of course, we cannot be helpless to see a continuous bleeding of jobs; we must absolutely reverse this trend, through more effective interventions than hitherto adopted, both legal and fiscal, in order to ensure greater flexibility for young people and relocation for the so-called over 50, in a difficult and recessive cyclical phase such as the current one. The problem of work is closely linked and conditioned by the state of our companies, which during the period examined by the DEF, in the presence of a severe recession, have lost competitiveness (except rare exceptions). Our companies, for various reasons, are unable to react to the economic crisis, also because of the excessive bureaucratic and administrative burden, because of the difficulties of access to credit and, consequently, because of the reduced investment in research and innovation of processes and products, to which the strong tax burden must be added, which reduces profit margins and in many cases leads to the abandonment of activity. The macroeconomic proposals for certain measures aimed at boosting the growth and efficiency of the entire economic system, and the practical and rapid adoption of the decree-law that unblocks the payments of public debt, which will ensure the provision of liquidity in the real economy, should therefore be welcomed. We hope that this will be a first step towards revising our economic system from a European perspective. We are sure that the Europeanist vocation, decidedly confirmed by President Letta in his government programme, and his knowledge of Community instruments will make a valuable contribution to this. Finally, for our part, we hope that the repercussions of an unstable and highly litigious political framework, which has often in the past damaged any attempt to draw up and approve proposals that really take the form of the general interest, will be eliminated. Therefore, and pending the Update Note announced by Minister Saccomanni, I declare the Group's vote in favour of the DEF and Resolution No 3. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u64	On behalf of the Assembly, I would like to greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (including "Galileo Ferraris") of Falconara Marittima, in the province of Ancona, and the Istituto comprensivo (including "Dante Alighieri") of Castiglion Fiorentino, in the province of Arezzo, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u67	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, fellow senators, the 2013 DEF was drawn up by a Government whose mandate had actually expired, which it could not and did not want to assume for the future commitments it could not have made. Given the seriousness of the crisis, broad and organic economic policy action was expected, and instead we find hundreds of pages and tables where no measures are defined to support businesses and families, the only real policy objective that the DEF should have. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This document was collected in itinerantly by a newly appointed Government, which could not give you its economic vision. We therefore have in our hands a text which says nothing about the economic policies that will be undertaken and which will shortly be passed by an Update Document already announced, but of which we do not know the contents well. We all realize - I hope - how the parliamentary ritual we are performing today is quite hollow and incomprehensible outside of this House. On the one hand, we are obliged by the European Union and by the agreements signed by our country in the European Semester to respect a precise formal timing in the presentation of documents, the strict timing of the typical technocratic approach of Brussels, which obliges us to put the respect of the procedure for presenting the DEF to the coherence and usefulness of its contents. On the other hand, the country is guiltyly late in developing an economic policy planning, due to the political and institutional impasse of the last two months, during which the North League has repeatedly asked for the real needs to be met pragmatically, first of all to give an answer, through the formation of a government, to the economic crisis that has put us completely on our knees. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Tax pressure has reached very high levels, reaching 44 percent, the historic peak of the last fifty years, and even in the international comparison we get really bad. Arthur Laffer, an American economist, has argued for decades that the higher taxes are, the less people want to pay for them. Let us remember that tax evasion makes the burden on honest taxpayers absurd to continue to support. Unbearable levels, if we then consider that the real tax burden is 53 percent! There is no shortage of proposals for reform which should, in the intentions of those who formulate them, remedy these constraints on the economy. From this point of view, we have had an excellent, broad, ambitious framework on the part of the new President of the Council in his policy speech, with which he called for Parliament's confidence and which we believe it is necessary to recall here, because Minister Saccomeni has made it clear that these measures will be implemented by the end of the month in a DEF Update Note. A policy framework, the one presented by the President-in-Office of the Council, which identified a number of key issues and which drew in brush strokes decided to implement response measures; brushstrokes, however, which did not draw a clear picture, using colors obtained from the mixture of so many shades taken from too different palettes. It is incomprehensible from the Government, in front of a country burdened with so many wounds, the anxiety to cure them all at least a little and to want to resolve in a short time situations blocked for too many years. However, we are certain that the new government has already realized, after the initial enthusiasm, that the magic chopsticks do not exist and that Mr Letta's economic programme risks remaining a dream book, also because the Premier himself told us that there will be no new debt and the Minister for the Economy has reiterated that the balances will have to remain unchanged. There are many points in the programme that we are interested in and that we would like to see implemented, along with others on which we would like to reflect together because we have proposals, in our view, improvements. That is why we want your dream book to deal with reality right away and to deal with it, clearly establishing the priorities. We all know that at the moment there is a chronological priority: on 29 May the European Commission will decide on the state of our accounts and could decide to close the excessive deficit procedure against us positively - we hope. However, we do not want the concept that our country is the special overseer, the bad student who is being watched and wandered because he did not do his homework as well as others! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, in recent years, from the point of view of the accounts, we have done very much by compressing expenditure, by giving up economic support policies (we all know at what price), effectively blocking any form of investment, creating a debt to suppliers estimated at around 90 billion, imposing heavy and heavily unfair taxes, such as that on the house in its current formulation. This is just to name a few. Right here, right here, on the first house tax, our Group had tabled an amendment, which I am sorry the Government has only considered as an agenda, because it could really have been a moment to write what the Government has to do. Not just words, not just chatter: that was a real commitment! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We are not the outcasts of Europe, I repeat, because our deficit is below 3% of GDP, with a primary surplus that will stand at 3.8 percent in 2014, among the best in the Eurozone. Other countries, such as Spain and France, have declaredly renounced such ambitious objectives, calling for a delay of one or two years in Brussels to achieve the same budgetary objectives and, in the meantime, have presented their respective DEFs with content totally opposed to what is being pursued. The lighthouse, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Minister, is no longer austerity, but the decisive return to growth, which is very important not to depress even more all our economic activities, especially those of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our economy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] However, it remains a problem, because everyone is good at saying how one should do that or the other: we all agree on this point, but it remains the node of the covers, the node of the money remains. The most recent estimates, filtered by the offices of the Ministry of the Treasury, speak of figures around 6 billion euros, only for the first two urgent measures that the Government has said to undertake: the suspension of the IMU and the redundancy fund by way of derogation. I repeat: it is essential to find the resources, which, since they amount to considerable figures, could be a real maneuver and on which we have not been given explanations by this Government, except yet another academic reference to the now exploited slogan of cutting public spending. It sounds like a slogan, because we really feel like we've been constantly teased until today. Many cuts have been made and during the hearings both the Bank of Italy, then represented by the authoritative minister Saccomani, and the ANCI have declared that the only real possibility of recovery is the implementation of fiscal federalism. Only when we see concrete things will we vote in favour. For now, we're abstaining. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u70	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Civic Choice Group for Italy will vote in favour of the resolution approving the DEF. Today we are faced with a Document that certifies - as we have repeatedly stressed - the results achieved by the Monti Government in terms of structural consolidation of the accounts and the start of reforms that, over the next four years, will produce a significant rate of growth of the economy. In terms of consolidation, the structural reduction in expenditure has achieved that pre-2013 objective of the structural balance, which makes today the objective of the closure of the excessive deficit procedure realistic for the coming June. This is a decisive goal, as Minister Saccomani reminded us, which restores credibility to the Italian system and confidence in the stability of public finances. Today it is possible to start again from here to face the crisis and take on a central role in Europe, in order to re-orientate the very mission of European policy. Thanks to this renewed credibility, Prime Minister Letta was able to make, as the first act of his Government, a tour of the European capitals not as a representative of a country under protection, but as a promoter and protagonist of a change in European politics, whose mission must now be a great plan for growth and work, in the first place that of young people, in order to make Europe no longer an eyeful and arch-controller, but the engine of a project that gives hope in our future. However, it is up to Italy to be able to benefit from this new phase of European policies, when it leaves, and we will only be able to do so if we maintain the balance of the public accounts that so many sacrifices have cost Italy and if we work with determination to increase the productivity and competitiveness of our economic and social system. The resolution that the Senate and the House approve today takes note of the results achieved and gives indications for the decisions that the Government is preparing to take. The opening phase must deal with some immediate emergencies, but with the two points that have been highlighted in the debate, not only by us. First of all, it is Italy's interest, and not a subordinate acceptance of the European constraints or punishments inflicted by Mrs Merkel, to maintain the stability of public accounts, because our level of indebtedness constantly exposes us to the risk of a new financial emergency. Today, Mr Saccomanni has told us how much benefit we are making in order to balance the current budget for the fall in rates. If we did not keep this line, we would probably not achieve the planned objectives. Secondly, it is essential to continue with determination on the road to reform, because there will be no recovery for us if we have not acted on all those factors that have slowed down or distorted Italian modernization in these twenty years. There is no lasting growth by spending, but by creating the conditions for the competitiveness of businesses. It is not public spending that makes growth: it is reform. We must therefore move forward with the reform agenda. However, the priority in the short term is to restart businesses, therefore work and thus provide liquidity to the system. We reiterate that the decree for the repayment of credits to companies must be strengthened, opposing bureaucratic resistances that are being manifested on this ground and on which I believe will also occur the effectiveness and effectiveness of the action of government. It is also necessary, as has been said on several occasions, to lighten the tax burden. However, we must be very clear and consistent with the commitment announced by Minister Saccomanni, who we hope will be of the whole Government and of the whole majority, aimed at maintaining the invariance of the balances. We must therefore be very selective, very clear and speak the language of truth. We would like today, with the first passage and the first significant vote of this new majority, to begin to speak the language of truth. From this point of view it is necessary that the Government and the rapporteurs clarify the position taken on an amendment tabled by the League that, according to some agencies, would have been then in the contents fully transposed. On the other hand, we believe that it can only be accepted in part with regard to the IMU; it must be accepted in the terms set out in the statements of the President-in-Office of the Council and no later than, because we would create illusions and expectations that could not be met. It would therefore be a very wrong way to begin a new political phase which, as President Napolitano asked us, must be a phase in which the great coalition that has configured itself is voted to overcome the bipolarism blocs of these 15 years and aimed at a season of great reforms, without degenerating into a tired consociativism. For this reason, we at Civic Choice for Italy will not make the watchmen not so much of the rigor, but of the reforms and we will watch on the points that we believe are the key and the ground on which the success of this political operation will be measured, started with the Letta Government and for which the parties that are part of it also feel a discomfort. We believe that this discomfort can only be overcome if, when this experience is completed, there are the results that we have not been able to achieve for 20 years. These results are the reforms, the Italian modernization and the ability to engage the recovery that we in Europe will contribute to determine in the coming years. That is why we will vote in favour of the document, but with a very active commitment that the next steps of the government will go in the direction announced. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senators Tonini and Fravezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u73	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, the DEF which gave us the Monti Government from the central moment of the programming cycle of the country's economic and budgetary policy has become a consolatory act, a report at the end of its term. The Document underestimates the criticalities with which families, workers and businesses are confronted today. The economic data for the first months of this year deny the suggestion that the worst belongs to the past and that in the coming months there will be a reversal of trend: confidence indices for both businesses and households are based on historically depressed levels. The fiscal stress that companies and taxpayers are experiencing as a result of fiscal rigour policies has undermined both competitiveness and consumption and investment. The expected increase in VAT will further increase the levy on the weakest income groups, helping to depress consumption even more and thus going in the opposite direction to the objectives of equity and growth that it claims to pursue. Unfortunately, as the 5 Star Movement has often explained, the DEF has been dealt with in the Special Commission, thus overshadowing all the permanent Commissions that could have made an important technical support on various reforms that are of fundamental importance to the State at this historic moment. We are beginning to get into the substance of some issues that in a more decisive way mark the most important aspects of the DEF under discussion, the result of economic planning blinded by the Treaties and the pursuit of one-way accounting planning. In the DEF a small page is destined to the ILVA of Taranto, which is remembered to be an industrial site of strategic national interest. From what is learned in the Document, it seems that the ILVA issue has been successfully addressed in the past legislature and that it is beginning to be a prosperous future, given the two measures of the Government. The first is aimed at facing the serious situation of environmental and health problems in the reclamation site. The quota allocated for the reclamations is insufficient and concerns only the safe and reclamation of the contaminated soils of the martoriato district Tamburi of Taranto, the PIP areas of the Municipality of Statte, the surface layer of the SIN of Taranto and the sediments contaminated with PCBs in the Small Sea. Then there is a second measure, the so-called save Ilva, of which, of much more that we would have to say, besides the fact that the emergency health has been subordinate to the productive aspect, the data - for the 5 Star Movement among the most decisive - that the environmental and professional associations, the committees of citizens and workers, doctors, pediatricians, citizens and citizens without any membership neither political nor associative of Taranto have come down several times in the square to contest it. It is embarrassing to belong to a State which should safeguard the health of its citizens more than any production and, moreover, find no mention of the experts of the epidemiologists and chemists used by the Taranto Public Prosecutor in the probative incident. Quoting from the text of one of the two: The continuous exposure to air pollutants emitted by the steel plant has caused and causes in the population degenerative phenomena of different apparatuses of the human organism that translate into events of disease and death. And again: The health picture of the population of Taranto exposed to industrial emissions and used in different sectors of work appears to be seriously compromised. In the DEF, moreover, there is not a single word on steel and this results at least grotesque in that in the law of conversion of the aforementioned decree saves Ilva is clearly mentioned, in paragraph 1-a of Article 3, that within one hundred and eighty days from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree, the Government adopts an industrial strategy for the production chain of steel. But 113 days from the date of publication in the Official Journal of the renamed save Ilva of this industrial strategy the DEF does not foresee anything. On the development and growth side of the economy, the DEF cites, as a milestone, the reform of Fornero's work, a reform that has had the extraordinary capacity to depress even more the Italian productive fabric, represented by small and medium-sized enterprises, which, instead of acting as a stimulus to economic recovery, has produced opposite results, paralyzing companies and employment. It is nothing more than a set of rules that hinder recruitment, limit employers' choices and increase costs by making employment data worse. It is also, and above all, the fault of the failed measures and those implemented without taking into account the real needs of employers and employees. Among the novelties of the Fornero law there is the failure to extend the rules granting reductions for the recruitment of workers registered on the mobility lists, a decision that is causing part of the employment blockade. The introduction of ASPI ends up weighing heavily on companies, with high costs, all the more so as the payment of 41% of the monthly ceiling in the event of termination of the permanent contract for reasons other than resignation is foreseen. Businesses must take charge, therefore, of those social shock absorbers that are fighting in our country. The cost of permanent contracts in terms of INPS contribution is also increasing, which helps to limit the conversion of many permanent workers. The rate of separate INPS management has also been increased from 18 to 20 per cent and from 2014 the standard rate of separate management will also rise by one point. Moreover, the contribution due from employers hiring apprentices also increases, which also applies to all employees recruited from 1 May 2012, for whom the total reduction of contributions had been foreseen. There are no implementing decrees for incentives to hire women. These must define the boundaries of the facilitation, clarifying the territories to which the initiative applies, but also the concept of unpaid employment referred to by the norm. Those mentioned represent a list of critical issues that make the increase in employment and a commercial that has been mentioned on several occasions to reduce the tax and contributory wedge. On the fiscal side, the Italians the DEF, and the Government that produced it, did not miss anything. The IMU, which was initially to be introduced for the 2013-2015 two-year period, becomes a permanent tax, even if it will be necessary a law that confirms it. Now the word goes to the new government. For Monti, the cut in the IMU would have resulted in a loss of revenue of EUR 11 billion and would have required another corrective action. It will be curious to see how the current Government, which has finally brought out the "Holy Alliance," will be able to combine the needs of the mountains with the electoral promises of the Berlusconian right and especially those who will be called to pay the new damages that are beginning to glimpse in a situation of deep crisis, without end, in which the country pours. The issue of the single municipal tax launched last year is twisted and could still be complicated if we did not opt for targeted action. The revenue estimates were EUR 21 billion, but according to the July 2012 DEF review, they dropped to EUR 20.1 billion. So far nothing anomalous, except that in the end taxpayers paid a total of 23.7 billion to the Treasury, so 3.6 billion more than the initial forecasts. Looking to the future and to the Italians, we learn to tell the truth: a technical government could not afford to miss the forecasts for 3.6 billion euros. The new Government on the IMU chapter is confused, indeed we can say that we have a Government to the opposition of itself, in which the demands for abolition and restitution of what was paid out of the PdL, that of reform of the PD and the embarrassment of Civic Choice, that in a couple of days is being seen disassembled the work of the Government Monti and the DEF object of our discussion. Basically, Berlusconi and PD are telling us that Monti has joked with Italians so far: in fact, we are talking about a rewriting of the DEF. It is humiliating to listen to the statements of those who support this Government. Brunetta states: "The return of the IMU is a direct element for the PdL", for Monti is a morbid political interest. Both the PD and the PdL point to the postponement of the decision, playing with the numbers and hoping that God sends it good, joking with mathematics and on the skin of people, because nothing is said in case of abolition or remodulation, from where will be taken the resources to settle the accounts. The thing they do not say, in the event of the abolition of the IMU, is that the bankers' Europe would consider the introduction of the IMU as a one-off measure and therefore to be considered outside the exit plan from the excessive deficit procedure. The new government will have to clarify the future of the IMU, stopping playing the " Berluscon game " and, indicating the financial coverage of the choices made, must tell us whether it intends to cut unnecessary or useful expenses or, as usual, transfer the tax burden on workers, pensioners or small enterprises. As for TARES, in 2013 Italian households will also be burdened by an average increase, compared to the current tax, of as much as 35 percent. The biggest increases, due to the regulatory forecast that requires full coverage of the collection cost... [[Recalls of the President]] I'm going to the end. By declaring the contrary vote, the Movement calls for a new definition of the concept of public debt, also in order to a just representation in the European context of the Italian financial situation, where we will have to demand just spaces of maneuver in order to be able to share the hope for families and enterprises and increase the investments in research, culture, public education, interventions for the restoration of the hydrogeological order, Bonifiche and the other issues contained in our program, summarized in the 20 points that we offer to this new Bipartisan Government, inviting it to consider in the eventual and desired rewriting of the Document, a confrontation with the Movement 5 Stars, recognizing in this way dignity to more than 8 million citizens who ask strongly that their voice be heard. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u76	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Mr President, of course I am well aware of the conditions under which this document on economics and finance has been drawn up, drawn up and proposed to Parliament, and I therefore hope - as provided for in the resolution tabled by the majority group leaders - that this issue will be reconsidered as soon as possible, because there are some fundamental aspects, such as the one that has already been put in this House, a short time ago, which must be properly addressed. I am referring, of course, to one of the issues which are particularly sensitive in the political debate: that of the IMU on the first house. It is therefore necessary for the public finance framework to be brought back to Parliament on the basis of the programme which we have heard from the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Enrico Letta, in this House. All of this is very clear to us. However, it is right to deal with the document of economy and finance, in particular with regard to the return from the excessive deficit procedure, which will be concluded by May and which is a particularly important issue for Italy. I would remind you that this DEF was preceded by the update report, which confirmed the objective of a deficit-to-GDP ratio of less than 3%, through which we will be able to close the excessive deficit procedure imposed by the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, those who speak to you know perfectly well that maintaining this objective is essential. The closure of the procedure for returning from the excessive deficit is in itself a shortcoming for the economy: just think of the reduction of the rates that such a measure would entail, and this would be a remarkable relief both for the sovereign debt - the debt of the state - and for the enterprises, because one of the things that is needed is undoubtedly a reduction in the cost of the money, and for the public debt and even more for the enterprises. Therefore, we certainly do not miss the importance of rigour in the public accounts; however, some issues must be observed. And I want to put two. I am sorry that Minister Saccomanni is not present: it is the first document of economy and finance and therefore perhaps his presence would have been useful. A review of the equally considerable competence of the Undersecretary Alberto Giorgetti at least two issues that the DEF explains and which must be addressed by the Government in European context. Firstly, two other Member States of the Union have been granted a return path to debt and deficit parameters for a longer period of time. As far as I know, there is no formal resolution authorising such a concession. It is therefore useful for us to know what the return procedures are, because they may also affect other countries - I am thinking of Italy - which have shown greater rigour in the public accounts than those countries which today benefit from the granting of a longer-term return from debt. It is quite clear that the European Union is synonymous with transparency and legitimacy and it is therefore right that the procedures should be codified, so that we know what are the parameters necessary to benefit from these procedures. If this is discretionary - and I hope it is not - I would ask the Government to confront the European Union with this explicit problem, to clarify the conditions and to try to obtain them in order to reproduce some possibilities for growth. I submit these questions to the Government so that they may be raised at European level. There is a second question that frankly surprised me, but I have tried to understand it; I entrust it to the Undersecretary Giorgetti because otherwise, when there are manoeuvres, we will have such a strong European bond that it will not allow us to escape restrictive measures. On page 30 of the Economic and Financial Document, there are limits to expenditure and limits to the growth of the expenditure pool; some targets are defined depending on whether or not the medium-term objective is achieved. Well, the paradoxical result of that model at this time is as follows: in the years 2012-2013, if the medium-term objective is reached, the aggregate expenditure ceiling is worsened. It is clear that this is a procyclical measure in the recessive sense. Obviously there is a model and I have the feeling that I have found it, but these issues need to be dealt with again here. At a time when there are serious problems with growth, at a time when we achieve the European Union's objectives of strict public finances, do we then achieve a further reduction in the expenditure ceiling? It is a procyclical measure in the negative sense. The government can and must deal with these issues immediately in Europe, otherwise in the coming months and years we will be forced to maneuvers that may have additional recessive features. Therefore, it is clear that the People of Liberty always acquires as a fundamental objective the respect of the commitments made at European level, acquires as fundamental the parameters imposed on us by the European Union, but with a high head and in the face of the condition of deep crisis of the real economy demands that some of these parameters be revised; it does so with humility, but also with the strength of those who have achieved the objectives that had been imposed on it, as the Document itself recognizes of economy and finance. Therefore, we recognise everything, but we believe that these issues must be re-evaluated at once, in addition to the others that will have to be raised. Finally, I say this now, in the examination of the Economic and Financial Document, to the Government. We have a constitutional problem: we are talking about reforms and we have chosen (not like other states) to give the budget balance a constitutional nature; we have chosen to write in the heading "Budget partition". Europe, on the other hand, is talking about balance. As you know, the two issues are profoundly different: balance is something that points to zero; balance is something that includes exceptional facts, cyclical measures and so on. It would be useful for us to discuss this point in the European Union immediately and to unify the benchmark: whether it is balanced or balanced. If we make sense of balance, then we have to achieve that. All this is absolutely important because it can be prodromic to what everyone wants, namely the so-called golden rule, the exemption of investment from the European Stability and Growth Pact. In short, let us take this opportunity to stress that we accept the commitments made, set the balances, do everything rigorously there is to do, but in truth or we take back the theme of the real economy and growth also from the point of view of public finance aggregates or, otherwise, we could continue to screw ourselves into a negative spiral (or recessive that we say we want) that would deeply damage not only Italy, but the European Union, because - as we know - the Italian economy is such a big component that everyone has to take serious care of it. We first have to set an example, but everyone has to. For this reason, I appeal to the Government, together with our strong vote in favour and the hope expressed in the resolution for a reconsideration of these aspects, also the subdued but convinced indication of some lines that we must pursue in Europe, taking advantage of the rigour of the public accounts that we intend to continue to achieve because public finance finds spaces that allow for growth, knowing that we will work on all the other economic and psychological factors of energy, education, the enhancement of the professional skills that serve for growth. That is why we will vote in favour with the comments that have been made. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups and Senator Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u79	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of joint motion for a resolution No 3. The photograph of Italy that emerges from the DEF has been debated for a long time in these days. It is that of an economy which takes an important step towards fiscal adjustment, but which has to face an alarming situation with regard to its debt stock, with regard to its growth prospects and, consequently, the dramatic fragility of its labour market. At the same time, precisely because the DEF this year assumes the peculiar nature of a transitional document which, therefore, will necessarily have to be updated, the debate and the resolution place the emphasis on the path of economic policy that today's vote must take shape and along which the government and the forces in Parliament that support it undertake to move in the coming weeks. It is on this path that I would like briefly to reflect because it will be decisive in order to restart our economy. It is a path that can be summed up in three important steps. The first is that which requires us to get out of the infringement procedure now linked to the excessive deficit and then set up - and this is the second step - a set of measures to stop the recessive spiral in place and to support the revival of employment. As a third step, we need to negotiate this package with Europe so that we can have the appropriate and necessary time to implement the relaunch measures, using the flexibility that we will have gained in the meantime. As for the first step in this process, I think there is now a broad consensus on why we should get out of the excessive deficit procedure. It has been pointed out several times that the benefits will be substantial in terms of additional flexibility for our economic policy, both as additional resources to be used for investment and as necessary resources to finance employment measures. We have also rightly remembered the decreases that we will be able to enjoy as a result of a further reduction in spreads and our interest rates precisely because of the enormous mass of liquidity that is now available worldwide. At the same time, the overtaking would only bring us, in the immediate future, an additional manoeuvre that the European Commission and Europe would force us to do. The second step is equally decisive compared to the first one and concerns the measures to be taken and that Brussels expects from our Government in the coming weeks as a Note of variation of the DEF so that it can see our renewed tax virtue by the end of the month. As we know, the adjustment effort carried out over the last 18 months has cost our citizens a great deal in terms of falling production and increasing unemployment. It is therefore entirely acceptable that the Government has reiterated that its polar star, the polar star of economic policy, will be the work and the revival of employment. But in order to have some hope of success, it is necessary to put in place a complex set of measures, which are in some way made of tax reductions and the launch of new investments, which must stimulate demand and supply of labour, accompanied by a decisive relaunch of structural reforms. As we know, these are mandatory measures which must be launched immediately, and it has been mentioned several times: the VAT stop, the refinancing of the integration fund by way of derogation, the payment of public administration debts. But other interventions are equally important and will have to be launched in the coming weeks. The problem is that resources are very scarce and the room for manoeuvre is very tight. We therefore need a list of priorities and choices that are consistent with these priorities. If the criterion is, and can only be, support for growth and employment, it is clear that priority must be given to cutting labour taxes, starting from the excessive tax wedge that makes it expensive for companies to hire, up to the IRPEF too high on low-income workers. In such an approach, the real estate tax, the IMU, must for now be postponed and should be re-modulated, re-balanced, aligning the cadastral values with those of the market, as already proposed by the Democratic Party, but certainly cannot be eliminated for all the first houses: it would not make economic sense and would not be understood by our European partners, since the tax on the first house is paid throughout Europe. The risk is that the package of actions that we will present in Europe will be mistaken for a mere loosening of the work of rehabilitation undertaken so far. In this case the risk is to seriously weaken our negotiating position when we come forward to call for more flexibility. As you know, Europe pays hard for a wrong approach, all based on austerity, which does not take into account the necessary measures in terms of economic growth policy. There is the positive news of a flexibility that, after the European Council in mid-March last, is granted to the countries most in difficulty, and therefore also to ours. Of course, this will not be enough to change current trends in Europe, but it is an important area for our economic policy, and therefore an area to be exploited to the full. Italy can ask, together with other countries, to separate from the calculation of the deficit a series of measures that may not be counted for the purposes of compliance with the European parameters; it can ask for the financing of programmes to support employment, especially in favour of young people. This is foreseen in the European Council resolution of mid-March. But we must understand each other well, because it will be a tough confrontation, since these are rules to be interpreted: it will be a tough confrontation, especially with the creditor countries. Germany has almost reached full employment and will face elections in September. Of course, it will take skill and firmness, but much will depend on the cards we are presenting ourselves with, namely on the quality and consistency of the package of measures that we will put on the European table. In some ways, this will be our decisive axis. We must keep this in mind when discussing it in the coming weeks. It is clear that what is needed is a coherent strategy and overall framework. This is the commitment that awaits the Government, but also Parliament, in the coming weeks. Let us not forget that the ultimate objective of these interventions remains the improvement of productivity and efficiency in all parts of our system, because only in this way will it resume to grow. Otherwise, we will simply end up running after the emergency, and the greatest risk is that we will lack decisive opportunities to relaunch our economy. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, in its firm adoption of the motion for a resolution No 3 before us, intends to move in this direction and to contribute to the development of this strategy and of these measures, especially so that Italian citizens can be convinced that their sacrifices, which cost a great deal, will not be wasted. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u82	Mr Ghedini Rita, rapporteur. Mr President, with reference to motion for a resolution No 3, which is put to the vote as accepted by the Government, I propose some trivial corrections, almost of drawing. In the fifth paragraph of the premises I propose to replace the last words: "In the years of the crisis by the Berlusconi and Monti Governments," with the following: "Started by the last Governments", for which the text will be: "The action of consolidation of public finance initiated by the last Governments". In the seventh paragraph, again of the premises, I propose to remove the words: "the continuation of the sub-paragraph will begin with the phrase: "a budgetary policy based solely on austerity."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u83	As no comments are made, the rapporteur's proposal, Mrs Ghedini, is accepted. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of motion for resolution No 3 (correct text), tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario and Fravezzi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 288 Senators voting 286 Majority 144 Favorable 209 Contrari 58 Absent 19]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12,
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u86	CARDINALI (PD). Mr President, the electronic device did not work: I took part in the vote with a vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Cardinals.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u89	ZIZA (PdL). Mr President, I mistakenly voted against, but I wanted to vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Zizza.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u92	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor at the end of the sitting to stigmatise what has happened in recent days in our country towards the Minister for Integration Cécile Kyenge. I believe it is right that you, Mr President, on behalf of this House, should express a strong and authoritative voice of condemnation of the serious racist and misogynistic offenses that have been addressed to Mrs Kyenge by the European Member, Mario Borghezio. [[Loud Applause]] , followed by former deputy Boso, as well as the entire cultural and political galaxy that refers to Nazifascism, present both on the Net and in the various social networks. I would ask you, Mr President, whether it is because we can no longer get rid of folkloric behavior or misunderstood jokes or expressions of cultural minorities, the vulgar and intolerable personal insults that have referred to ethnic and gender differences or to harmful concepts, such as the purity of the Italian race, or because the issue concerns the quality of democracy, civilization and coexistence of this country if a neominister Italo-Congolese, black, graduate, exponent of a movement of associations and citizens, who has waged battles on the rights of immigrants in this country, is the subject of discriminatory and racist attacks, an expression of the most greedy and vile subculture, which has unfortunately also drifted from Nazis, also from exponents who sit in the European Parliament. Mr President, I come from Modena, from the province which it welcomed at the end of the years. Eighty the current Minister Kyenge, building the conditions for her to study and work; to become a partner and then to buy a home in a housing cooperative; to participate in the social and political activity of her territory; to be elected to the Provincial Council. I was mayor of the Municipality of Nonantola, who chose, in 1994, to start policies of integration of foreign citizens who resided there regularly, starting from cultural policies and rights, by establishing, first in Italy, the figure of the deputy foreign city councilman and even before involving the communities of foreign citizens in the committees of management of municipal services: because integration, which is not equal to assimilation, is built by putting at the centre the resident person, allowing those who arrive in the land that hosts him to have, with equal duties and respect for the rules, the same rights of citizenship, access to services and participation also in public life. Already then it was argued, as Mrs Minister rightly said, that the problem of migration was primarily cultural, rather than social, or even public order, as has been pointed out... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u93	You can finish the sentence, Senator Vaccari.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u94	VACCARI (PD). Thank you, Mr President. I only ask you to express your closeness and solidarity with Minister Kyenge, firmly condemning the insults and racist offenses he has suffered and calling on the European Parliament to take exemplary action against one of its members who have been guilty of these crimes. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u95	Of course, the Presidency and the whole of this House strongly condemn racist expressions and threats to Minister Kyenge. I would like to take this opportunity to express my solidarity with all the Members of Parliament who are daily met by threats and insults, including, and above all, through the Network. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] It is an attitude of which many of us are unfortunately targeted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u98	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in Milan the third woman disfigured by acid. Ilaria, Alessandra, Chiara are only the last victims of feminicide in the last few hours, after Denise, Michela and Lucia. A chain of violence and death that affected 24 women only in the first four months of this year and 124 in 2012. It is a sad chain that must be broken as soon as possible. In more than half of the cases the feminicide was committed by the partner as part of an ongoing or recently completed relationship, whether spouse, cohabitant, boyfriend or ex. The authors of feminicide are for 79 percent Italian men, and only a small part of these crimes occurred at the hands of strangers. This tells us the data of the "Shadow Report" of civil society on the condition of women in Italy. The media often present cases of feminicide as the result of passionate crime, sudden and unpredictable action by men who are victims of raptus and homicidal madness. In reality they are the epilogue of a growing one-way violence, caused by the inability to accept separations, by jealousy, by a feeling of wounded pride, by the will of revenge and punishment against a woman who has transgressed to a model of traditional behavior. A role that in Italy is still relegated to that of mother and wife, or object of sexual desire. The new minister Josefa Idem did well to convene an interinstitutional table with the Ministries of Justice and the Interior immediately, and it was well done by President Boldrini to raise the alarm so that no kind of violence is underestimated, not even that web route, of which the President of the Chamber herself was a victim and to which we express all our solidarity. But this House and this Parliament, at last with greater representation of women, have a duty to act immediately for the approval of a national law against feminicide and to work with the many associations of women, with the anti-violence centers, which must be refinanced, with the local jurists and administrators to tackle this real national emergency in a decisive way. We can all do it together, cross-cuttingly, as we women know how to do in these cases, as women have already been able to do for the approval of the 2009 stalking law. I put at the disposal of the Government and Parliament the bill on which Anna Serafini worked so much in the last legislature, together with other Senators of the PD, the vast female associations and the greater competences, bill that I have re-presented in this Chamber at my first signature. It is also necessary to promote the immediate ratification of the Istanbul Convention, with the four "p" wanted by the Convention "No more": prevention, protection, persecution of crime and persecutor and promotion of a different culture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u101	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, on 25 April, on the occasion of a public demonstration, the President of the House strongly called for the repeal in our country of the State secret for the crimes of massacre and for crimes involving terrorism. It was a solemn demonstration and this was widely taken up in the newspapers. The "Corriere della Sera" even made a survey among the citizens, asking if they were for or against. Now the problem is that - as you should know - by law in Italy it is not possible to oppose the secret of state with respect to massacres or terrorism. Therefore, neither on Piazza Fontana, nor on Ustica, nor on the Moro case, nor on any other blood related to terrorism and massacres, no government has ever opposed the secret of state. It is clear, however, that these statements, made publicly, give rise to public distrust and concern. Is there anyone covering up the massacres in our country? The government, has the state ever opposed the secret? It's not like that. Then I allowed myself to present an interrogation, together with Senator Comrade, to ask the Government to come and clarify in the solemn seat of Parliament whether and when ever a Government in this Republic has opposed the secrecy of State. Interrogation has been declared inadmissible, because they tell me that, by practice, parliamentarians (in this case the senators) cannot somehow ask the Government to intervene on statements made by members of the other branch of Parliament (in this case by the President of the House). But it is the President of the House who has spoken. Therefore, I call on the Presidency to intervene, beyond the formal fact of whether or not an interrogation is admissible. It is not that such serious accusations or attributions to the State or Government of such responsibilities can remain without an answer. So I ask the government to come to the highest level to confirm to Parliament that the secret of state has never been opposed. If not, I ask the government to say when and on what facts the secret of state would have been opposed. We have a duty to be clear and transparent to the citizens. And, when such heavy statements are made, or are true, and someone takes responsibility for them, or they are false (as I believe), and then the government must come and say so in Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u102	Senator Giovanardi, of course I confirm the assessments that the Presidency has made. I believe that the parliamentary experience and the authoritativeness of Senator Giovanardi and Senator Compagna allow us to find the formulations in order to obtain the answer on the underlying node, which seems to me to be that of the subsistence or not of the secret of State. Therefore, I think that we will find a way to have this clarification, in the forms compatible with parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u103	I inform you that, at the request of certain parliamentary groups, which have made this request for organizational reasons, the convening of the Constitution of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, already scheduled for today at 5 p.m., is postponed. The meeting of the Council is therefore postponed to another date.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u104	Remember that tomorrow, at 4 p.m., the figure of Antonio Maccanico will be commemorated in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u105	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-19.ana.u106	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 8 May, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.16 a.m.
