ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.21 a.m. Sorry, the delay was determined not by my will (even because I was in the office), but by the request of a group that had a delay that I intended to respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u2	The list of Senators on leave, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u3	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Dear Senators, this is the first sitting that sees me as President, and it is therefore with great emotion that I am about to start the work of this House. To the emotion for this important institutional and personal moment is united today the emotion for the disappearance of Antonio Manganelli, an exceptional servant of the State, as many have said, all in these hours. Exceptional in the sense of uncommon, difficult to find for intelligence, humanity, honesty, competence, dedication and for the rare coincidence in a single person of all these gifts together. As President of the Senate, I join in the expressions of esteem and respect unanimously expressed by the institutional world. But he was also an affectionate and dear friend to me, with whom I had had the opportunity to collaborate several times during my career in the judiciary. Several times our lives and functions have crossed paths. Antonio Manganelli was the protagonist of some fundamental moments in my professional life. I remember, and we all remember, to accompany Tommaso Buscetta to the courtroom during the maxi-trial at Cosa Nostra, where I was judge at the sides. I would like to mention this as a member of the Central Commission for Protection Programmes for Witnesses and Legal Assistants as Director of the Central Protection Service. I remember him being very good at distancing himself in the very difficult reality of Palermo, where I had arrived as a prosecutor of the Republic. In all these and other moments it was a fundamental point of reference for me, because in addition to his experience as a refined and intelligent investigator, he knew how to put teams of men in the field who shared the same ideals, the same values with him. In recent years, as a national anti-Mafia prosecutor, I have been able to collaborate almost daily with Antonio, first appointed at the top of the public security department, then at the position of Deputy Chief of Police and then Chief of Police. A recognition due to his life, his career, his service to the State to protect honest citizens and against all forms of crime. Of him I remember the simplicity, affection, the loyalty with which he daily knew how to relate with the men he directed. He was a respected and beloved leader, he knew how to take responsibility and weight, sometimes even unpopular, which often involves carrying such important positions. I hope that this testimony can be an example for all women and for all men who daily put their lives at the service of the State in the Forces of Order. I am sure to interpret the feeling of unanimous condolence and emotion of all of you and of the country all in expressing affection to his wife Adriana, to his daughter Emanuela, to all the family members of Antonio Manganelli. The country has lost a great cop, a great man. I lost a friend, too. I call on the House to observe in its memory a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u6	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I had the opportunity to meet Dr Manganelli when, young Quaestor of Palermo, he took possession of the office of that city, as you mentioned earlier, beautiful, difficult and complicated, perhaps even more than many other cities in the South of Italy. A city with a social presence that, at other times, with other magistrates, I had the opportunity to comment as a company with a separate software. So I remember Dr. Manganelli's handshakes and some valuable indications and some very valuable suggestions. An elegant person, educated, present without being the protagonist, strong in the care of legality, in the care of public order, of the meetings different from the more important ones of which he was actor and bishop, that is those for the fight against the mafia. She's already called him back, ma'am. Already before being a commissioner of Palermo and then, with a brilliant career, Head of the Italian Police, he was in contact with Falcone and Borsellino in his previous assignments and also then showed great balance, meaning of the institutions, never in evidence but always present, always ahead in the techniques of investigation, mutualing everything that happened in the world and that other examples in the history of the Police have "been" characteristic, that police that is now pointed out in the world as before in the fight against organized crime; struggle in which Dr. Manganelli, like his predecessors, has combined his efforts with those of the police of the European Union and recognizing the common objective of a fight against organized crime that is concerted. So, on our part too, Mr President, we pay Dr. Manganelli an honorable tribute to his memory, in the memory of a great servant of the State. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u9	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, fellow senators, Balzac, over a century ago, wrote that making chronology is making the history of fools. It is difficult to insert the figure of Antonio Manganelli inside this frame. All we can say about him, without forgetting what he declared at a difficult time for Italian democracy, when, addressed to the press, and then addressed to the Italians, he said: It's time to apologize. At that time it is time to apologise to the epithet of Balzac. Through Manganelli has passed a piece of black history of Italy. I had the chance to meet him in Florence, deputy commissioner of the street, where often many of the servants of the State begin what will then become a difficult and delicate career. Through him the initiatives have passed to recover - and she succeeded, beginning with the kidnapping of a person - the fight against the Sardinian anonymous; always through him, but not only through him (and she correctly remembered him), the fight against the mafia and ordinary crime and then the facts of Genoa. But through Manganelli and a piece of the Italian police and the servants of the Italian State, a piece of good Italian history has passed, of the novelties: the project for the police of proximity, the protection of the collaborators of justice, that - it has been remembered - also through him has made an extraordinary leap. I have read in these days in those who have remembered that Manganelli had the privilege, that it does not happen to all women and men, to do what in life he would have wanted to do, that is, the investigator, to which function, service, had connected a dowry that must be cultivated, because it is not a natural dowry and is not always found in women and men: the taste of culture, which passed through constant reading and a love for art. Perhaps it should be remembered - I say it in conclusion - as the one who did his duty without considering it an extraordinary fact, and therefore without considering him absolutely a hero. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are commemorating today a person worthy of respect and consideration by all Italian citizens, and I would like to express, on my behalf, the Mixed Group and the Left Ecology and Freedom, our closeness to the family and to all its loved ones. A true and authentic servant of the State is not an empty rhetorical figure, which is often and sometimes improperly used. He was a sincere democrat, whose action was characterized by a profound trait of humanity, which was universally acknowledged to him. At every moment of his commitment to the service of the State he demonstrated a deep sense of attachment to democratic institutions but also, and above all, of having great and unusual qualities of sensitivity and great respect for the citizens. Its great merit was the results achieved in the fight against the mafia, organized crime: this activity has conformed to itself the whole course of his career, starting from his collaborations with Falcone and Borsellino, and then becoming commissioner of Palermo, until the apex of the management activity. When he became head of the police he put to use the experience accumulated in the field, so much so that the great results achieved in recent years in the fight against organized crime and mafias can certainly be, without any doubt, ascribed to his intuitions, his determination and his ability to intelligence, investigation and coordination of the various actors in the fight against crime and in the capture of the great fugitives. This vision is fully reflected in his civil passion, demonstrated at every stage of his long career, which consists in the search for an ever strong recomposition of the relationship between the State and citizens, through an action of involvement between citizens, institutions and police forces, which can be summarized, according to his happy and incisive expression, in an attempt to make all actors protagonists for the maintenance of public security in our country. His initiative has always been aimed at ensuring the transparency of the work of the police, including through a courageous denunciation and correction of his actions, of which we must act, aimed precisely at restoring the confidence of the citizens towards the State. The example of his sentiment can be seen in the way in which, from the head of the police, he faced the difficult and delicate development of the phases following the tragic and painful events of the G8 of Genoa, which certainly represented a moment of separation and conflict between citizens and police forces, to the point of asking him - the head of the police - civilly and humanly excuse on behalf of the State Police for the proven, serious violations committed then against helpless boys and peaceful marches, who democratically manifested their ideas. It is with this spirit and with these sentiments that we commemorate today the disappearance of Antonio Manganelli. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u15	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the North League cannot fail to recall Antonio Manganelli, also bringing back to this House the condolences expressed by Roberto Maroni, former Minister of the Interior, who learned the sad news, felt the need to communicate his personal affection and his esteemed relationship, with a few emotions and heard words: Hello Antonio, master of life and true friend. You will remain in my heart forever. The life of Antonio Manganelli has been marked by continuous battles. Abnegation and sacrifice have guided his long career, lived as a real mission, aimed at the fight against organized crime. Many were the challenges faced and many victories achieved on the field. And with the same tenacity and dignity he was able to carry out also the personal challenge that destiny has reserved for him, without ever escaping his commitment as a servant of the institutions. How can we forget some of his direct operations that remain in the history of this country? As when in Caltanissetta the Mafia was inflicted a serious blow with the arrest of 400 criminals in one night. And the merits attributed to him for the arrest of the most famous bosses of Cosa Nostra, such as Nitto Santapaola and Pietro Vernengo. And in recent years the capture of dangerous fugitives, such as Giovanni Arena, Salvatore Lo Piccolo, Michele Zagaria and again Giuseppe Setola, Giovanni Strangio, Domenico Condello. Equipped with an innate instinct, a sense of duty and respect for the hierarchy, he began an unstoppable climb that soon led him to cover the top of the police. In this role he tried to put into practice his idea of shared security. An idea that has always belonged to the programmatic and political line of the North League movement. An idea that the fight against crime, and in particular organised crime, can only be addressed by finding the right synergy between police activity and the full participation of local authorities and active citizenship. In fact, shared security can only be achieved through a profound analysis of social phenomena and tensions. For these reasons the name Antonio Manganelli will remain in the historical memory of this country such as those of Falcone and Borsellino, examples of hope for the new generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u18	CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, I believe that your words need a few comments: we all share them. I think Antonio Manganelli would have wanted to die exactly the way he died, that is, as head of the police, broken but not defeated by evil. Until the end it was an example of extraordinary self-denial, attachment to duty and a great sense of responsibility. A few days ago a colleague, Senator De Petris, recalled that Manganelli was a great man, also because she was able to apologize in some circumstances and take responsibility for difficult choices and I believe that as a great leader, as he was, at the head of thousands of Italian policemen, he demonstrated in all his human and professional history this great ability. The colleagues of the Civic Choice Group for Italy also join the pain of the family and the mourning of all the police. I would just like to mention two points, in the final (sorry if I introduce two arguments that may seem a bit out of tune, but I want to talk about it): the first concerns some bitterness of too much that in recent times fate has not hesitated to devote to Antonio Manganelli; the other - I was struck, iced yesterday - the barbarism and the civilization of hundreds of comments on Twitter and Facebook, a sign of the incivility that hard times like these reserve us. I believe that we should never leave room for barbarism and inhumanity, even when they are manifested through very new and very modern means of communication. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u21	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, the Parliamentary Group of the Senate of the 5 Star Movement expresses its condolences for the death of the chief of police Antonio Manganelli. Here we would like to remind him of this by honoring his intellectual honesty, as on July 26, 2011 he intervened on our blog "www.beppegrillo.it" to respond to an open letter relating to the unacceptable violence at the Diaz school in Genoa. We want to remember Manganelli with his own words, expressed on that occasion, according to which the need to restore the proper relationship between the citizen and the police, if this proves to be cracked, for any reason whatsoever, is a priority. The correct, direct and shared relationship between citizens and the State Police is the basis of our idea of legality and respect for laws in a rule of law and democracy. Thus we express our condolences to the family and remember the late Antonio Manganelli. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u24	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, first of all, although I am embittered by my first speech at this very grievous event, this does not prevent me in any case from expressing to you, on behalf of the Group and my staff, my good wishes for the high office to which you have been referred. We're gonna miss a man of state, but, as you said very well, you're gonna miss a friend. We all know the story of Antonio Manganelli and the path that saw you united in the fight against organised crime. He will not, for what it takes, even as a former president of the Senate; but as a citizen of Palermo at this moment I prefer to remember the relationship with a great man. A man who has left in my city, from the commissioner of Palermo, a great memory, so much to deserve the recognition of the honorary honor of an honorary citizen of our city. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] A man that everyone would have liked to have as a friend; that all men engaged in politics would have wanted to have at their side, in carrying out both political and institutional tasks. A refined person, a great and sensitive listener of the problems not only of the police, but of his interlocutors, of his men. She will remember him more than me from the commissioner in Palermo, as if he were close to his men on the mobile team, as an instructor and teacher of life in the hot moments of the contrast to the mafia, who invaded and struck our city. I think that men like Antonio Manganelli, whom I have also had the honour to attend in recent years as President of the Senate, are part of the history of our great country: a friendly person, lucid; a person who could always find attention in his interlocutor while at the same time manifesting the ability to analyze problems. A man who has never lost control of his feelings and the lucidity of strategies in the fight against organized crime. A man who suffered; he did it in silence as a man of state: he went to the United States and did it on tiptoe, and from there, while he was caring, he continued to work on teleconferencing or videoconferencing daily. When he moved there, he informed us in a confidential and polite manner with a note to which we responded equally politely, meaning that the institutions were with him in any case, even if he was overseas. A man who speaks to you, in a very private, almost private way, on tiptoes, two weeks ago went to visit; he embraced his wife, could not access a room of great suffering, but he did so in the awareness that it was a personal and institutional gesture at the same time, that Antonio Manganelli deserved. I believe that this House in unison is paying what it is necessary to pay to a man of state like the head of the police, and I think that the best tribute will be to continue in legislative action, as it has been in the last ten years, which sees united majority and opposition, different forces, in the unitary adoption of laws that increasingly combat organized crime. Mr President, this House has marked moments of great, great prestige, because it has entrusted the country - and you are aware of this for having applied them in the high role it once played - great laws; laws wanted by the judiciary, wanted by the political forces, which I believe can be handed over to the memory of Antonio Manganelli, with our commitment to remember it with this activity, with this way of making politics, with this way of legislative implementation, in the fight against the mafia and all crime, in a way that is always shared. In my opinion, when crime is being combated, there can be no division in the policies of majority or minority; I have always said so and I have always supported it. We entrust this commitment to the memory of Antonio Manganelli. I think it's the best way to celebrate this great man who left us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u27	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to thank you very much for reminding Antonio Manganelli here. A few days before his last hospitalization, I happened to be invited by him to lunch at the police guesthouse. I remember - not to emphasize a personal memory - that in this very long conversation Dr. Manganelli has continuously conversed and exchanged ideas on the problems of public security in our country, the problems of the police forces, the needs related to their organization and their needs. I remember him because he was a very sick man (he had been fighting with a very serious illness for two years) and therefore he had very serious personal problems, but all this did not enter even for a moment in his conversation. Even in the awareness of his condition, until the last Manganelli spoke of his work, his mission and his attachment to the police. I remember one of his words: I am proud to be the head of women and men who daily guarantee the security and democracy of this country. In this sentence there is the essence of his personality and his priority objectives: security, our security, that of all citizens, the defence of democracy, rules, the rule of law and national interest. It is that national interest which should also be ours, which should be the inspiration of the work of all of us. I must point out, incidentally, that I have not found this national interest in the statements made by the representatives of a group here in Parliament today by leaving the Quirinale Palace, which referred to the President of the Republic, in a way that I consider to be irrational, and that therefore - I want to say it publicly - I do not share. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI)]] Antonio Manganelli had an extraordinary love for his men (he always said so). As mentioned earlier, he accompanied love for his men even with the recognition of errors. In a country where no one ever recognizes their mistakes, making it Manganelli has shown courage, Mr President, a political courage, which is a difficult courage: the ability to recognize their own mistakes is a quality of strong men and Manganelli was a strong man. As many colleagues have just mentioned, when Manganelli apologized, he raised and increased the honour of the police. His was a life of balance and rigour. Who knew him, remembers him also for the human trait, for the open smile (President Grasso remembered him well) and for his ability to listen to everyone. I believe that today Antonio Manganelli would be happy to know that we, in remembering his figure, also express our deep respect and our sincere gratitude to the State Police, which he has so wonderfully guided for many years; with equal respect and gratitude we greet all the other forces of law that help us in security and democracy. Italy and Parliament must be grateful to Manganelli not only for the work of defending the security of citizens, but also for his daily witness to defending democracy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u28	I think I interpret the thought of the entire Assembly in ordering that a copy of the shorthand report with the commemorative interventions you have expressed be sent to his wife Adriana and daughter Emanuela. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u29	I would like to say that on 16 March 2013 the President of the Chamber of Deputies sent the following letter which I read: "Dear President, I am honored to inform you that on 16 March 2013 the Chamber of Deputies elected me President at its first sitting and that, at the same sitting, my inauguration took place. With cordiality. F.to: Laura BOLDRINI. On behalf of my staff and the whole House, I wish President Boldrini every success. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u30	Pursuant to Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure, the senators and senators have indicated to the Presidency the parliamentary groups of which they intend to join. The list of members of each Group will be published in the annex to today's report. On 19 March the parliamentary groups also established them. The Presidency Offices are composed as follows: Democratic Party Group President: Zanda Gruppo Il Popolo della Libertà President: Schifani Gruppo Movimento 5 Stelle President: Crimes Gruppo Chosta Civica per l'Italia President: Mauro Mario Walter Vice President: Susta Vice President: De Poli Secretary: Giannini Gruppo Misto President: De Petris Gruppo Lega Nord e Autonomie President: Bitonci Vice President: Volpi, Divina Gruppo Per le Autonomie (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI President: Zeller Vice President: Nencini Vice President: Lanièce, Fravezzi Secretary: Berger
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u31	By letter dated March 20, 2013, Senator Mario Ferrara announced the establishment of the Group called "Grandi Autonomie e Libertà" (Great Autonomies and Freedoms), to which Senators Centinario, Crosio, Compagnone, Scavone, Mauro Giovanni, Bilardi, Bianconi, Compagna and Barani joined. The new Group has appointed Senator Mario Ferrara as president. Consequently, Senator Barani ceases to belong to the Il Popolo della Libertà Group, Senator Centinario ceases to belong to the Lega Nord Group and Autonomous States and Senators Ferrara Mario, Crosio, Compagnone, Scavone, Mauro Giovanni, Bilardi, Bianconi and Compagna cease to belong to the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u32	As announced at the Conference of the Leaders, meeting last Tuesday, I recall that pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Rules, the Groups will have to proceed, within five days of their constitution, to the appointment of their representatives in the Permanent Commissions, giving notice to the Presidency by 20 hours on Monday 25 March. I would also remind you that pursuant to Rule 21 (4) (a) of the Rules of Procedure, the representatives of the Groups in the Political Commission of the European Union will be appointed after the composition of the other Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u33	The next item is: Vote for the election of the four Vice Presidents, the three quaestors senators and the eight secretary senators. Pursuant to Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure, each Senator will write on his ballots, respectively, two names for the election of the four Vice Presidents; two names for the election of the three Quaestors; four names for the election of the eight Secretary Senators. Those who obtain the highest number of votes will be elected. In order to prevent any possible misunderstanding, the list of colleagues with the same surname is available to the senators in the Chamber, indicating their names. Two cabins have been set up to simplify voting operations. My fellow senators will pass under the Presidency to deposit their ballot papers in the three separate ballot boxes prepared for this purpose and placed at the exit of each of these cabins. The call will be done in alphabetical order. Pursuant to Rule 6 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I proceed to draw the eight members of the Voting Committee, who are responsible for the examination of the ballots. (The President drew the eight senators of the Voting Committee.) The ballot board shall be composed of the senators: Margiott, Vicari, Pinotti, Piccoli, Russo, Nencini, Gaetti and Puppato. I declare the votes open. I call on the interim Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. (The Senator Secretary Vacciano and, later, the Senator Secretary Spilabotte and the Senator Secretary Baptist make the appeal). Senators take part in the vote: Aiello, Airola, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Aracri, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Barozzi, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bernini, Bertorotta, Broglia, Bruni, Bubbico, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caleo, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cantini, Cervellino, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carinali, Carraro, Casaletto, Casino, Casson, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinaio, Ceroni, Cervellini, Chapel, Chiapolini, Civari, Citi, Carinali, Casaletto, Casino, Casano, Casandio (In the course of voting, Senator Casini asked for another ballot because he was wrong to vote. The President, agreeing to the request: "There are some senators who vote for the first time... In the Senate certainly! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the senators who are members of the Voting Committee to proceed to the ballot box, which will take place in the adjacent Pannini Room. Pending the results of the vote, I shall suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 8.47 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u34	Let's resume our work. I communicate the outcome of the votes held in this House for the election of Vice Presidents, Senators Quaestors and Secretary Senators. I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the four Vice Presidents: [[Senators present 310 Senators voting 309]] Senators got votes: [[Faithful 134 Lanzillotta 126 Calderoli 119 Gasparri 96 Orellana 52 Taverna 48 Palma 4 Quagliariello 2 Casini 1 Malan 1 Schifani 1 Scilipoti 1 White cards 1]] I proclaim elected Vice Presidents of the Senate the senators: Faithful, Lanzillotta, Calderoli and Gasparri. [[Applause. Congratulations.]] I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the three quaestors: [[Senators present 310 Senators voting 309]] Senators got votes: [[De Poli 144 Bottici 120 Malan 113 Molinari 48 Colucci 4 Mussolini 1 Finocchiaro 1 Rizzotti 1 White cards 7]] Proclamation elected Senators: De Poli, Bottici and Malan. [[Applause. Congratulations.]] Finally, I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the eight Secretary Senators: [[Senators present 310 Senators voting 309]] Senators got votes: [[Amati 137 Di Giorgi 136 Saggese 136 Pizzetti 134 Stucchi 104 Mussolini 102 Gentile 96 Alberti Casellati 85 Bertorotta 51 Catalog 49 Castaldi 47 Donno 46 Calderoli 2 Palma 2 Esposito 2 Villari 1 Casini 1 Sibilia 1 Quagliariello 1 Bonfrisco 1 Malan 1 Scilipote 1 Finocchiaro 1 Zanda 1 White cards 8 No cards 1]] Proclamation elected Senators: Beloved, Di Giorgi, Saggese, Pizzetti, Stucchi, Mussolini, Gentile and Alberti Casellati [[Applause. Congratulations.]] On behalf of the Assembly and my staff, I would like to extend to the Vice Presidents, the Quaestors Senators and the Secretary Senators elected the most cordial wish for good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u37	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, perhaps I should have made my speech when the House was a little more full, as I would like to recall the premature disappearance of a very large athlete: Pietro Mennea. [[The Assembly stands. Applause]] Pietro Mennea is perhaps one of the greatest exponents of Italian athletics; they are also rare non-color athletes who have managed to excel in the performance of speed in athletics and sprint. Mennea achieved a world record in 1979 that lasted almost twenty years, and twenty years in athletics and speed are a geological era. This gives us the size of this athlete. He has had great prestige and a great sporting career, but he has also had a brilliant civil career: he has obtained two degrees, he has become a lawyer and he has also been a colleague of ours as a Member of the European Parliament. He founded the school of Italian speedsters and among his boys there were other champions like Tilli and Pavoni, with whom he shared moments of athletic preparation. Pietro Mennea showed great temper and great humility, accompanied by a human fragility that - however - increased its thickness, humility and sharing. The Group of the North League and Autonomy therefore wishes to bring to the family their sorrow and affectionate remembrance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u38	We will send the shorthand report of your intervention to the family, Senator Divine. Let us observe a minute's silence as a sign of mourning. [[The Assembly stands and observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u39	Senators and senators, I warn you that the President of the Council of Ministers has given his willingness to report to the Senate on the outcome of the European Council on 14 and 15 March next Monday afternoon. Therefore, as already announced to the groups in the short way, the Senate will return to meet on Monday 25 March, at 3 p.m., with the agenda: "Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the outcome of the European Council of 14 and 15 March 2013" Speakers from the group representatives will be followed for ten minutes each. The Conference of Leaders is convened on Monday 25 March at 2 p.m. The Presidency Council will meet at the end of next Monday's sitting, presumably around 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u40	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-3.ana.u41	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 25 March, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.55 p.m.
