ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 8 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved. (Brusio). Colleagues, I think the time has run out for the exchange of greetings to return. Now, excuse me, but with a little silence, let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 11:09 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u4	On 31 August 2013, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Public Administration and Simplification: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 101 of 31 August 2013 laying down urgent provisions for the pursuit of rationalization objectives in public administrations" (1015).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00029, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, 1-00095, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00128, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, 1-00134, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators, 1-00137, presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators, and 1-00138, presented by Senator Cioffi and other senators, on the risks of hydrogeological failure. I call Senator Vaccari to explain motion No 29.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion that we have tabled in recent months at the first signature of our President, Mr Zanda, and that we are preparing to discuss with those of other groups, is a major national issue: the high hydrogeological disaster that our country is experiencing. Italy, in fact, for the particular climatic and geomorphological conditions, is a country with high geological and hydraulic risk, whose fragility is increasingly evident and documented: the data provided both by the Ministry of the environment and by ISPRA tell us that in 2012 there were 85 major landslide events affecting an area of 20,800 square kilometers, equal to 6.9% of the national territory, and that the municipalities affected by landslides are 5.708, equal to about 89 percent of the total of the municipalities. Add to this worrying picture that over the period 2008-2012 we witnessed an increase in the victims of alluvial events, with an interruption of the previous decreasing trend, in the years 2001-2007, also due to changed climatic conditions to which the European continent is subjected. It is estimated that the population exposed to floods and other events of this kind currently accounts for more than 6,100,000 inhabitants. The fact that the hydrogeological failure is now a real national priority is also demonstrated by the fact that the Minister of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has already presented in the first hundred days of Government two draft laws on the subject, certainly appreciable, the first for the containment of the consumption and for the reuse of the soil, the second on the demolitions in the areas to hydrogeological failure: sign this - we are convinced - of a renewed and decisive attention to the environmental issues and to a specific phenomenon that has grown at impressive rhythms. According to ISPRA data, on average, 7 square meters per second of soil have been consumed in Italy for over 50 years, with a peak of 10 square meters in the nineties and a value of today's 8 square meters. In absolute terms, as many as 20,500 square kilometers have been irreversibly lost. In other words, in recent decades, there has been a continuous growth in urbanization, sometimes uncontrolled, the proliferation of artificial interventions on watercourses, rivers and canals, and the subtraction of floodable areas and free, agricultural and wooded areas: these are areas that represent principals essential for the holding of the Italian territory, of which a very high price is paid whenever, on the country, particularly intense weather events are knocked down. The alluvial events that have also affected the territories of Emilia-Romagna and Liguria in the last year (marked among other things by the special motion n. 21) and the disruptions of the Apennine territories that have followed them, as well as those that have repeatedly hit other Regions, show how the problem of hydrogeological failure is no longer catalogable in the logic of the emergency, both because of the frequency of the events and the gravity of the consequences on the territories involved. With this motion, ladies and gentlemen, we want first of all to highlight the need to move from the logic of emergency to that of prevention in land management. For all vulnerable areas, but especially for watercourses, it is necessary to develop a national redevelopment strategy aimed at flood and disaster management, based on the concepts of non-employment or restoration of areas intended for the natural expansion of watercourses, mitigation of risk and adaptation to residual risk. It is undeniable that in the management of public resources for the protection of the environment there is a lack of planning and planning with unproductive expenditure and many times hijacked on other purposes: a study of the CGIA of Mestre has indicated that only 1% of the environmental taxes on energy, transport and polluting activities, paid by citizens to the State and local authorities, are intended for the protection of the environment. More generally, it should be stressed that land management policies continue to devote most of the resources available to the emergency, rather than to an effective work of prevention and security of the territory. This report needs to be changed and, like the principle that it oversees the payment of certain taxes or taxes such as that on waste (i.e. the polluter pays), we have to work for an environmental tax that rewards citizens and virtuous businesses and penalises those who are not to invest in the territory, which represents the most important added value of any economic and social system. Between 1999 and 2008, EUR 58 billion was used for soil protection, pollution reduction and hydrogeological planning, but of these over 50% was absorbed by current expenditure and only EUR 26 billion was earmarked for risk prevention investments. The ordinary appropriations relating to soil protection and the hydrogeological risk of recent years indicate significant reductions in resources, thereby making it less certain that the appropriations necessary for prevention policies will be available, which need continuity in order to be effective and, in fact, have a shift in the way they are financed towards extraordinary management. In addition to the issue of resources, it is necessary to make a decisive contribution to institutional infrastructure in the field of soil protection policies. The most critical issue today is, in fact, due to the failure to complete the reorganization of the governance system and to a fragmentation and overlapping of competences between different actors and operational tools. At national level, there is necessarily a lack of a unitary direction to coordinate the various actions on soil protection and water resource management. In the motion, we point out that the proposed management system for soil protection, water protection and water services must be radically changed, as it is incapable of coordinating synergist skills, roles, responsibilities and powers that already exist. We therefore call on the Government to take a change of pace on governance and to adhere to the European strategy on soil protection, which is based on the change of the development model: land use choices, ecological reconstruction of watercourses, agriculture as care and protection of the territory, economic analysis in decision-making processes, policies for mitigation and adaptation to climate change, participation of citizens in the search for shared choices. Today, most of the interventions aimed at protecting the soil are passive structural defence interventions, which in terms of cost and effectiveness have proved to be not fully satisfactory. On the contrary, it is necessary to focus on preventive activities, which place emphasis on the value of soil use rules, on monitoring risk situations and on the degree of knowledge and awareness of populations of the level of risk exposure of a territory. The essential prerequisite for the transition from an emerging logic to a prevention-based one is therefore the establishment of an adequate, careful and reliable financing system. From this point of view it is appreciated the willingness of the Ministry of the Environment to establish, in agreement with the territorial authorities, a national fund for the protection of the soil and the reduction of the hydrogeological risk. It is necessary to identify a financial mechanism capable of generating certain resources each year, in order to finance retraining operations, guaranteeing a secure financial availability, which allows to plan the expenditure and start the long path of adaptation of the Italian territory towards conditions of greater naturalness and greater security. Finally, it is necessary to remove from the narrow and binding links of the Internal Stability Pact the expenses and interventions that can be implemented by public bodies in this sector, through an extraordinary plan of widespread maintenance of the territory and of the waterways, made of a thousand small works, and also the experimentation of projects involving, in the ordinary maintenance of green, wooded and river areas, workers temporarily beneficiaries of social shock absorbers or prisoners. A plan which also involves the system of local self-governments and provides forms of incentive for the active participation of the single or associated population, such as river contracts. With this motion we want to call for a new and more incisive commitment to Parliament and the Government, also in the light of the disappointing results recorded in recent years and the need to find timely and advanced solutions to deal with the repetition of calamitous and emergent episodes. We have the urgent need for an institutional and cultural change and the approach taken by the new Ministry gives us hope. The new law of stability for 2014 must be the test bench to measure the consistency between saying and doing in the interest of the country and the territory, moving new resources on this national priority, but above all indicating the start of a new season of public policies. The Democratic Party is ready to support and overcome this challenge, together with all the political forces that in this House have at heart the sustainable and inclusive development of our country and its natural resources and common goods as we do. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u7	I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 95.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u8	Mr President, the motion that we tabled as a Mixed Group, SEL member, on hydrogeological failure was one of the first acts we wanted to make, because we believe that it is no longer possible to postpone the assumption of responsibility and a decisive change of our country's strategies in this field. Data from recent years tell us that the structural fragility of our country has become even worse. The increasingly frequent alluvial and calamitous phenomena that affect Italy not only highlight with drama the extreme fragility of our territory, but now tell us clearly that a project and an overall strategy of safety are no longer procrastinable. All this accompanied by an innovative and turning policy on the urban planning of our territory. To these data on the increasingly frequent alluvial phenomena must be added, colleagues, the increasing degree of coastal erosion, which now affects more than 540 linear kilometers of the Italian coasts, in which the most precious assets of our Italy system are directly involved: the landscape systems and the territory. The data on the coasts, which are very alarming, tell us also - on this point I will return - that among the causes that have led to this dramatic situation with regard to the hydrogeological structure of the country we no longer have only the abusive constructions: the last data tell us, precisely, that we are talking about absolutely legal cementification and this can only be attributed to urban planning policies - if there are planning or building choices in our territories - that are putting more and more at risk the good country and what we consider a common good, that is the soil. These data also tell us that, now, the effects of the current climate change are such that extreme events in Italy have increased exponentially, from one about every 15 years (before the 1990s) to 4-5 per year. The issue of climate change (which unfortunately continues to be largely underestimated) cannot be left out of the discussion we are having today about hydrogeological failure. Here I would like to refer to the latest data that have been published in authoritative journals such as Nature and Science, according to which many of the scientists at international level tell us that we have almost reached the point of no return. So, from this point of view, we must expect these extreme events to increase more and more. In the face of this heavy situation, we also know that a serious national policy, a coordination of actions and a strategy have been lacking in our country that would place the priority of securing our territory in a structural way. On the other hand, it is enough to see economic data to understand how economic resources have been spent in recent years. I would like to remind you here that the relationship between resources for prevention and resources for emergency is 1 to 100: compared with EUR 2 billion spent on prevention, on security and on interventions for the protection of the territory, we have an emergency expenditure of almost EUR 213 billion. So, we're talking about a ratio of 1 to 100. I would also like to mention the risk data here. Almost 10% of the country's national surface is highly hydrogeological and there are over 6,600 municipalities involved: so, we are really talking about a very serious and serious situation. To this we must add other data that are closely related. Today we cannot make the mistake of addressing the issue of hydrogeological failure without equally addressing, with the same firmness, the issue of soil consumption in our country: in fact, as many of you know perfectly well, the two issues are closely related. The data on soil consumption in our country are absolutely frightening and alarming. A research carried out some time ago by WWF Italia with the University of L'Aquila has revealed data that must make everyone reflect. From 1956 to 2001 the urbanized area of our country increased by 500 percent; between 1990 and 2005 it was able to transform more than 3 and a half million hectares, that is, an area almost as large as Lazio and Abruzzo put together. Of these, 2 million hectares of fertile agricultural land have now been covered by often wrong sheds, roads, houses and infrastructure. The latest data do not give us counter-trend signals, but of further increase. We can no longer afford for the security of the country and for the protection of the territory - which, I repeat, is a common good - to continue to consume the soil with these rhythms. There will have to be a moratorium; the Government has approved a bill and other draft laws have been submitted for the stop to land use. It is absolutely necessary to reverse the trend. In addition to this, in recent years, precisely because, in our view, there has been a lack of awareness of the priority of intervention on hydrogeological failure and security, very disordered governance policies have been made, in contrast to one another. There was no homogeneity of interventions. Even when we have intervened, very often it has been done with absolutely wrong techniques that in some cases have further aggravated the problems. I am thinking, for example, of the cementification of watercourses with technical and engineering harnessing operations, which are now considered by almost everyone completely wrong. On this too, the strategy will have to be completely changed. Our motion in short asks - the Minister of the Environment has announced this fund - in connection with the Regions a real multiannual plan for the defense of the ground and, considering that this is the first and priority work of the Country we ask, that the objective law and the decisions CIPE on the works be revised in order to reconsider and divert the majority of the resources on this. We call for the work aimed at securing safety to be out of the Stability Pact because, among other things, to intervene and consider the first priority work for the country to secure from hydrogeological risk and soil protection also means creating economy and providing jobs. Not only do we save territory, human lives from the risks we know, but we also give the opportunity to build many jobs. We think it is necessary, as I said, to intervene on soil consumption, and the other proposal that we make is that of a young plan, in order to ensure that we intervene with a series of maintenance works in soil protection. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u9	I call Senator Companione to explain motion No 128.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u10	Mr President, our motion, like many others, takes stock of the seriousness of the problem. Our country is characterized by a wealth of watercourses due to the massive presence of mountainous areas, where hydrogeological failure is a recurring phenomenon and strongly linked to the young geological age of our territory. Natural phenomena such as the erosive processes of the coasts, the floods, landslides and floods, together with earthquakes and fires, contribute to causing significant human, material and environmental damage. Anthropic intervention on the territory has, in several cases, greatly increased the impact of these events, accelerating destructive phenomena and making the territory even more vulnerable. The race to cementification, the unregulated consumption of the territory, the deforestations, the abusing of buildings, the dissipation of the senseless resources, associated with the cuts of the funds destined to environmental safety, are all factors that structurally increase the gravity of the situation. From 1960 to 2012 1,453 events between landslides and floods occurred on national territory, with 2,836 injured and 4,132 dead. It looks like a war bulletin and gives a sense of the gravity of the situation. This breakdown weighs not only in terms of human lives but also in economic terms, since at the state's coffers it has cost about EUR 53 billion since the post-war period. As much as 89 percent of Italian municipalities are at hydrogeological risk: these are data that we have all emphasized a bit. Following the event in Sarno which, in May 1998, caused the death of 160 people, the country has equipped itself with an alert system for hydrogeological risk, the management of which is ensured by the Department of Civil Protection of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and a network involving local authorities. In fact, the annual expenditure - calculated in over 300 million euros - to implement extraordinary intervention strategies aimed at restoring the status quo ante of places and things, weighs inexorably on public budgets and allows to compensate only one third of the losses recorded. In 2009, CIPE allocated €1 billion of the Fund's resources for under-utilised areas, which would have to be integrated into an extraordinary plan of €2.5 billion for the most urgent investments for small and medium-sized projects aimed at removing the situations of high hydrogeological risk, developed by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea; after years of uncertainty, slowness, financial inertia, such financing was cut by the law of stability for 2011 and therefore is not usable. Therefore, we, with this motion, would like first of all to commit the Government to implement immediately the Extraordinary Plan for the Protection of Soil which, having put in place EUR 2.5 billion between state funds and regional co-financing, could also refer to European resources; secondly, to take steps to ensure that the State budget provides for an additional annual allocation for the ordinary maintenance of the territory and to be allocated on the basis of the decisions of the State-Regions-Local Autonomies Conference; and, secondly, to lay down specific rules for the application, where possible, of the criteria for naturalistic engineering to the interventions of prevention of the hydrogeological system; to implement decisive policies for the reorganization of soils, in compliance with the limits of the competences of Article 117 of the Constitution in the field of environmental protection and of the ecosystem, through initiatives and measures aimed at promoting strategies for the safety of the territories (i.e. it is a matter of action not on the emergency, but of trying to do prevention; that is what we all support, and it would be the case for the Government to commit itself to do so). The Government is also committed to preparing planning plans in order to prevent, address and mitigate the consequences caused by atmospheric, alluvial and maritime events, supporting mayors in a widespread and simplified campaign of information to citizens regarding self-protection behaviours, as well as in terms of knowledge of exposure to the risk of public and private infrastructures, according to the provisions of the municipal civil protection plans, and to avoid the overlap of competences between the actors involved in the interventions, supporting the identification in the Civil Protection Department of the coordinating body, which performs indispensable functions of linking the various stakeholders to the different levels of competence in the field of forecasting, prevention and emergency management activities, in compliance with the provisions of the current legislation on civil protection and the directives of the President of the Council of Ministers. On the other hand, with regard to the ordinary nature of which we should be more interested, the expertise of the reclamation consortia, which are distributed throughout the national territory and which have, in fact, skills acquired over the years on the prevention of hydrogeological failure, could be enhanced. Finally, legislative initiatives to introduce forms of building allowance, i.e. extensions of time limits for allowances already granted in previous years which may increase hydrogeological risk, and to define consistent parameters to allow flooded companies access to favourable tax rules or forms of subsidised financing, with the exemption from the payment of capital and interest shares and/or through initiatives to waive the collection of local taxes or the suspension, at national level, of the payment of the IRPEF, should be countered. This is what we want. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Piccoli to explain motion No 134.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject that the Senate is dealing with is a complex and multidisciplinary issue where measures need to be taken to respond to prevention needs, to routine maintenance needs and to urgent requests for intervention. Given the vastness of the theme, it is possible, of course, to provide only a few ideas. Alluvial and calamitous phenomena have been affecting most of our national territory for decades. On the basis of the classifications elaborated by the Ministry of the Environment it is known that more than 10 percent of the surface of the entire country is framed as a highly critical hydrogeological area. But the best evidence of the problem is that more than 80% of local communities are potentially affected by hydrogeological risk. The fragility of the Italian territory has also had serious consequences in terms of the loss of human lives. In fact, it is thought that more than 150 were the victims caused by the only flooding events since the beginning of the new century and almost 800 lives cut off by similar phenomena immediately after the already tragic events of 1966 and until the year 2000. The number of deaths rises dizzyingly if we recall the immense tragedy of Vajont (of which this year is the 50th anniversary), the tragedy of Stava and others connected with a lack of knowledge of the territory and an overwhelming attitude of engineering and geotechnics. The phenomena linked to hydrogeological instability have also caused enormous damage to socio-economic and productive activities over the years, affecting many areas of our country. In view of these dramatic elements it is necessary to recall recent studies that have illustrated how the hydraulic and geological danger of the Italian territory has significantly increased in recent years and with it the vulnerability of the territory itself, this also because of questionable planning choices in the use of the soil; just mention the case of the formation of settlements, housing and productive, realized in the absence of any planning for the hydraulic reorganization of the territory. The exposure of many areas to the danger of flooding is nothing more than the result of a poor management of the hierarchy of programming tools and planning of the use of the territory and, in particular, a preposition of urbanization to the hydraulic needs. For this reason it is good to understand that the problem in question is characterized by being crossed by very marked multidisciplinary profiles, as evidenced by the most recent regional urban laws in positive and virtuous terms. This means that the predisposition of interventions aimed at the mitigation of calamitous phenomena of hydrogeological origin requires first of all a competent attention to all the areas involved, which can be summarized in the formula of the necessary coexistence between the objective of the protection of the anthropic activities with the knowledge and the valorization of the environment in which they fit. Secondly, a strong transition to a system approach is required in order to allow a constant and direct knowledge of the data and their use aimed at both prevention and response to the needs of the present. The fundamental points of the motion concern: a coordination action through which to overcome the current fragmentation and overlapping of competences; the promotion of simplification interventions in the framework of administrative and authorisation procedures; the relaunch of a real system of knowledge that aims at the acquisition and exchange on a national scale of information and data related to phenomena to be monitored and mitigated and, finally, the promotion of a necessary complementarity between prevention activities, ordinary management interventions and extraordinary and urgent maintenance, essential elements for the management of the territory. The motion, therefore, intends to commit the Government essentially to the following activities. First of all, there is a call for a strong intervention to simplify the current governance system, a system that has been progressively built with ad hoc measures and yet has shown numerous operational limitations due to the presence of an excessive number of actors; in fact, if, from the theoretical point of view, the use of the logic of delegations can respond to the objective of bringing the management of environmental problems to the territory, from a practical point of view, this system is exposed to the weakening of the chain of responsibilities. Therefore, the Government is asked to intervene to confirm the structuring on a regional or subregional basis, formulating the direction of a clear simplification, of course safeguarding and enhancing the administrative and management realities that have demonstrated over time its unbearable effectiveness. Such an approach obviously requires the need to optimise these actors in terms of tools, human resources and the allocation of competences, so that they can act effectively and promptly as well - as has already been pointed out - in planning as well as in the management of emergencies. 11:44 a.m. (Small follow-up). The motion also calls for action - always in a system logic - to reduce the gap between knowledge produced by research and applications useful for civil society. The seriousness of the statistics referred to in the preamble requires, in fact, that the current availability linked to knowledge and information, to predict and to manage be widely used, so that in hydrogeological defense and risk management the operational opportunities associated with the application of the new technologies are absorbed. The Government is therefore asked for an active commitment in order to support research activities and, even more so, to exchange information collected on the national territory, in the logic already widespread in the computer field of reuse of good technique practices, monitoring practices and alert and prompt intervention practices. It is true that for the study, prevention and civil protection, connected with the problems of hydrogeological risk, there are today formidable forecasting tools, which is indispensable to allow the daily use of the bodies; I refer to the hydrological and hydraulic mathematical models, to numerical modelling, to the systematic collection of data and to the monitoring of environmental and climatic parameters to be carried out also through the consolidation of the activities of the ARPA, together with a systematic diffusion and national sharing of the data collected and the elaborations carried out. While it is true that every single catchment area needs to be studied through specific data collection activities, it is equally true that the inclusion in the network of territorial information systems of the individual local experiences can allow a more rapid and correct exchange useful for planning even at national level, in the logic of extending the objectives of the Digital Agenda also to the issues of hydrogeological risk management. What has been highlighted requires a consequent simplification of administrative and authorisation procedures, with the primary objective of ensuring certain costs and times related to the activities required. To date, it has been pointed out that much of the effort must be directed towards the prevention of phenomena related to hydrogeological risk, but it is not good that this approach induces the logic of immobilism in the face of interventions that already take on the most urgent characteristics. Prevention is necessary in order to overcome and not repeat those errors that have led to the current situation, but prevention can do nothing in the face of current problems that call for immediate answers. Moreover, the territory evolves not only because of the human interventions, but also because of natural factors, and it is therefore necessary to look at the human-environment balance as a flexible, dynamic and non-ideological objective. Finally, attention is drawn to three types of intervention for which implementation is given a precise direction. First, it is asked to be able to reach, in agreement with the owners and managers of the invaders, a better monitoring of the state of the great dams present on the national territory, real volumes useful to the containment of the floods in the tracts of valley, through an activity of maintenance of the ability to invade of the reservoirs, to be carried out both with a programming of the activities of flattery, and with a revision of the disciplinary of exercise. Secondly, the Government is asked to provide support in terms of simplification for the creation of the expansion boxes, which are a relatively simple response to the serious hydrogeological crises that have affected many densely inhabited areas of the plains. To this end, concrete administrative simplification is desirable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Piccoli. SMALL (PdL). I shall conclude, Madam President. Finally, the Government is asked to guarantee the possibility to operate for the direct maintenance of the hives, implemented with appropriate formulas of training of the workers, that they are able to manage an adequate and constant system of the hives. In short, it is a set of actions that allow us to take full advantage of the opportunities connected with the use of modern technologies and methodologies, to adapt legislation to make concrete and to promote, therefore, the increase in the safety of families, businesses and infrastructure, in the logic of improving the quality of life of Italian society, in the light of a balanced relationship with the environment and the territory. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u12	I call Senator Arrigoni to explain motion 137.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the problems of hydrogeological risk and the need to address them in advance by concrete means and by stable financial resources, which must regularly be allocated from the state budget, are obvious and well known both to the institutions and to the citizens, who are waiting for real action, which go beyond the debates in the parliamentary classrooms. The problems have worsened in recent years due to the abnormal weather-climate events that have hit the country: 5,400 floods and 11,000 landslides have occurred only in the last eighty years; 70,000 people have been involved and have counted 30 billion old lire of damage in the last twenty years. Unfortunately, atmospheric adversities do not occur with a constant frequency over time or with factors of incidence that can predict them. The only security we have is that the disasters that occur today as a result of exceptional weather phenomena are inseparably linked to the vulnerability and fragility of the territory and the hydraulic and geological structure of the soil. Why are floods and landslides more and more frequent, more and more intense and more catastrophic? On the one hand, we are going through a period of climate change, which is not necessarily linked to global warming or the increase in CO2: it is, however, climate change of our historical period, which in any case are also linked to deforestation or territorial transformations at a global level. On the other hand, the increase in disasters is undoubtedly due to the incorrect use of the soil, both for the maladministration of the territory and for its abandonment, the depopulation of the mountains and small towns and the neglect of the territory, linked to the loss of contact with the same. The cases of building abuse are the first on the list to provoke the disasters announced. The abusive construction of buildings on the margins, if not even in the bed of streams and rivers or on landslides, perhaps later condoned instead of being demolished, is one of the main causes of such events. In these cases, it all comes down to the responsibility of the administrators, who have authorized such constructions, if they have not even seen them emerge. It is often the same regulatory plans that are distorted by a thousand compromises, which pursue partisan interests and not compatibility with the environmental characteristics of the territory. The disaster in Messina is a clear example of the bad administration of the territory: the granting of building permits in the bed of a stream is outside of any logic of good governance. So what can be done for the future? In Europe, as has already been the case in America, we are now talking about an adaptation strategy, intended not to adapt to events, but as a prevention of future damage. The adaptation strategy is a risk mitigation strategy that acts on the prevention of adverse effects and damage caused by climate change, regardless of the emission containment measures established worldwide by the various protocols and regulations (Kyoto Protocol, emission directives, energy containment and more). The strategy of adaptation to risks is the responsibility of the individual country, which implements it with its own tools and programmes; it is a framework of reference to the choices and actions of risk management of local and regional autonomy. The other European countries, prompted by initiatives of the European Commission, are starting their own national adaptation strategies; it is time that our country too followed these strategies. Italy should certainly take part in these Community initiatives through politicians, but also through industry experts such as those working at ISPRA and ENEA. The motions we are debating this morning, such as those presented and approved in the House of Deputies on 26 June, are a first step, obviously with different sensitivities, towards a change in the strategy adopted so far to address the issue of soil protection and hydrogeological risk. The motion tabled by the Lega Nord Group commits in particular the Government to give priority to the logic of prevention compared to that of emergency management and to unlock the resources already foreseen in the last legislature from the program agreements signed with the Regions for the priority interventions of prevention of hydrogeological failure, which amount to more than 2 billion euros. It also calls for: to provide for the exclusion from the constraints of the Internal Stability Pact for expenditure on prevention, maintenance of the territory and the fight against hydrogeological failure; to review the existing rules to facilitate less cumbersome procedures, such as current and current ones, with regard to the effectiveness of interventions; to prepare and activate an organic programme of interventions and to provide for a stable annual allocation in the State budget for the maintenance of the territory and the prevention of hydrogeological failure; and finally to involve more local authorities and regions in the identification, programming and implementation of interventions. In conclusion, I would like to stress how important and fundamental is the role of the mayors and even of the simple municipal councillors, who perhaps perceive nothing or a simple token of presence of about 10 or 20 euros per month, who perhaps devote them to their community, and who daily travel far and wide their territory, the riverbeds, the mountains and the hills, signaling the dangers and making available their time, together with the volunteers of the territory, to do works of prevention and settlement of damage; to them should certainly go the applause of this Assembly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u14	I call Senator Cioffi to explain motion 138.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u15	Madam President, today we are talking about hydrogeological disruption and we have often heard that Italy is a high-risk country; we are talking about a hydrogeological critical area, saying that 89 percent of the municipalities are at risk and 10 percent of the Italian territory is at risk. We make, in reality, a technical error (before becoming a senator I was an engineer, and I also realized public works on the failure): the error we commit is to confuse the critical areas with the areas at risk. The critical areas are essentially the sum of hazardous areas and risk areas. The dangerous area is an area where a landslide can occur, but there is no vulnerable element that is hit by the landslide. So we make a mistake and an erroneous overlap, because if a landslide takes place at the top of a mountain, it does not cause any damage; it is therefore a dangerous area, but it is not at risk. If we go to verify the real data of the risky areas at this point it is an important risk, because the risk is a multiplication: it is the product of the dangerousness for the exposed value (i.e. what the exposed property is worth multiplied by the vulnerability, i.e. the degree of the damage to the good). We always forget what the risk is and it is good that we remember it in this House, so maybe some of us learn something (it's good to remember that I want to be a teacher). For example, the Tiber Basin Authority classifies 30 square kilometers of 17,000 (0.2% of the surface) as a landslide risk; therefore, the part of the area that is really at risk is small. Obviously the risk is very high and, therefore, it is important to know what we are talking about, because otherwise we are confusing. The Amalfi Coast, an area from which I come, is a particularly delicate area: 50 percent of this area is classified as a landslide danger area, but only 2.8 percent is defined as a risky area. So when we talk about risk, we have to be careful. Of course, the problem is very serious: it is a very sensitive problem, and we are very sensitive to this issue. With regard to the Basin Plans, which were prepared by the Basin Authorities, we recall in this House that, in Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, it is written that these authorities were to cease their duties in 2006. It has been seven years: we had to move to the hydrogeological districts and instead we are still with the authorities of the basin. These are the counter-intensities that we engineering workers and, at this stage, we lawmakers are living. The Plan for the hydrogeological structure, which is the excavation of the Basin Plan, represents all situations and identifies all areas where there is danger. This planning overlaps with the various PTCPs (territorial plans of provincial coordination) and regulatory plans. We therefore know in a specific and precise way where the risk exists, what are the areas, areas, houses and settlements. It is important, therefore, that in these areas we establish the impossibility of building, at least as long as that is an area at risk. If works were carried out, the risk was reduced and that area was no longer dangerous, then it could be built. However, we must be very clear: it is impossible to build something in an area where there is a danger. Therefore, we must give the value of nullity to any act that is released. All this comes from the legendary law n.183 of 1989. It is therefore a story that comes from afar. Another interesting point is the following. When we do an intervention on a river because we want to do maintenance, we want to clean it, make it efficient and ensure that the flowing water is clean, in order to be able to carry out this maintenance work (and I bring back here an episode that happened to me), we have to ask the opinion of the Civil Genio (which is a body of the State) and the Agency of the State property, because the Civil Genio is the manager and the Agency of the State property is the owner, and also the Superintendence, because maybe in the river a tree has grown. We should have the courage to lighten this up, because the authorities in the Basin have given clear indications; we should start to understand, for example, that maintenance could be done in a simplified manner. We must simplify the action, therefore, because otherwise the action becomes inaction. Other very interesting data relate to the Water Framework Directive (2000/60/EC) and the Floods Directive (2007/60/EC). The interesting thing is that the first one defines the river districts and the definitions must be appropriate and appropriate, and, in the second one, we talk about the flood risk; no European directive speaks of the landslide risk. When we created the river districts, with Legislative Decree No. 152 of 2006, we did not specify what would happen to the landslide risk. We are then in a strange situation: the flood risk is encoded by an article, the landslide risk is not. Then you have to put some order, because otherwise you don't understand what you do. In some motions I have read that it is necessary to define what actions should be taken. However, I invite you to study, because in the Basin Plans it is written what needs to be done; it is in fact the Basin Authorities that draw up the Extract Plan for the hydrogeological order and that, after having defined it, make the Basin Plan. The list of measures to be taken is contained in the basin plans. We must of course start with maintenance, because it is useless to carry out great works, if you do not go to clean up and fix the rivers. We must begin to restore legality and, in this regard, I would like to refer to some very interesting data. It is from 1904 a royal decree in which absolute inediability was expected in the space of ten meters from the watercourses: from that decree it has been a hundred years. Do we want to go see if it's built within that space? Did you or didn't you build it? Who checked the respect of a royal decree of a hundred years ago? Do we want to restore legality? Do we want to start breaking down what has been done illegally? Otherwise, we'll never get out of this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Then there is the hydrogeological bond, another wonderful thing disciplined in another royal decree. Who knows (I throw it there to make a joke): maybe in the days of the king you worked better! The hydrogeological constraint is foreseen in a royal decree of 1923, ninety years ago, which was very important for our country, providing the obligation to score for each municipality on a cadastral map, possibly on a 1:10,000 scale, the land to be understood in the area to be bound, excluding for them the possibility of building or making land movements. It was a very important intervention, which has historically played a fundamental role. Now we have the extranged Plans, born after the flood of Sarno, of which we always talk: the Basin Plans were introduced in 1989, but we had to arrive at the time of the flood of Sarno for the extant Plans, because nothing could be done! We've stayed in this vacation! The hydrogeological constraint has functions that are also referred to in Article 65 (3) (f) of the single environmental law (Legislative Decree of 3 April 2006, n. 152), which I invite you to read; this wonderful bond no longer serves. If I have to do a work, I have to ask the same opinion, on the same matter (the hydrogeological bond, in fact) to two different authorities, on the one hand to the State Forestry Corps and, on the other, to the Basin Authority. What's the point? How do you operate in this situation? Do we want to rationalise this? So the system doesn't work. What, for example, are the competences with regard to rivers and streams? We do not understand: we make the plan and then, in order to realize a work, we do not understand if the civil Genio, the Region, the Province or the State must intervene. How is it possible to operate in this way? Shall we put some order into this great chaos? That is what we should do, otherwise we will not be able to go anywhere. There are also other interesting data. We know, for example, that in December 2012 the plans for hydrogeological planning (PAI), which are born from the 1989 legislation, were approved by 86%, with a 12% that has thus to date been adopted only; do we want to put this situation in place a little bit? Then there is the question of river districts. A single megadistrict was created, that of southern Italy. But how do you handle something like that? That it is only one district the basin of the Po seems logical, but in southern Italy there are many small basins. A gentleman who has to do an intervention in Reggio Calabria must go to Caserta to get an authorization: but does that seem logical to you? What effect is there in all this? So we need to reorganise the matter - starting from maintenance, which is absolutely fundamental - to put a bit of order in this chaos, which is quite serious. In this case, the role of reclamation consortia - also provided for in a royal decree - could be re-evaluated, which have a rather important role to play. We must perhaps rethink also the insurance on buildings in areas at risk; as far as I am concerned, I am always afraid when you make an assurance that this becomes voluntary because I remember the story of the tax on real estate: from extraordinary tax on real estate you have switched to municipal tax on real estate, then to the municipal tax on real estate. Let's think about this. I therefore call on everyone to study the subject first. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I consider the debate on the subject of the disaster an appeal to the Government and together with all the institutions which have, in their name, powers over the preservation and security of the territory. It is now the moment of a strong discontinuity; now, in the midst of an unprecedented recession for our country, we need to have the courage of a reversal of course, of a new culture - as Mr Vaccari has rightly said - and of a change of pace, of a completely overturned approach: maintenance of the territory as an ordinary practice and not a continuous pursuit of the last emergency; transforming the extraordinaryness and logic of the great works into thousands of small intelligent maintenances, this is the cultural revolution that is then also an economic and financial revolution: small and widespread interventions of quality, which support, predict or strengthen in advance, make the people who make live, there on their territory, aware and responsible, the small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, maintenance as continuous and widespread activity to restore, improve and ensure the full functionality of the territory. The approach must be reversed: re-use and regeneration of land and buildings; re-qualifications, more than continuous and new constructions, which consume soil despite not having a corresponding population demand, or kilometers of sheds, now unused, which have remained concrete skeletons without enterprises inside. This is the result of a short-sighted programming that has continued to cultivate the idea of a development based on cubic meters and not on the competitiveness of knowledge and technologies and intangible infrastructure. It is so: it has been built too much and everywhere, it has gone to quantity and not to quality. In forty years we have consumed an extension of land equal to two great Regions; in little more than fifty years it has almost tripled the consumption of soil. It is urgent to reverse the course and the Government must lead this new course, knowing that not only is it a matter of public change, not only of laws and decrees it is a matter of different subjects involved in this process and therefore of a much wider cultural change. Today, for example, in the construction sector we are still within the logic of effective action and immediate gain, in a chain of conveniences. The value generated by the real estate income, in fact, has rewarded and produced a series of conveniences for several subjects: for the ownership of the land, for territorial positioning or urban context; for the real estate operator, with easy change of destination; for the investor, citizen or company, with the multiplication of the value of the property over time (let's not forget that for years real estate has been practically the only guarantee instrument for access to credit and the fundamental indicator of measurement of social mobility); for the public institution, user of the urbanization charges, one of the decisive revenues for the municipalities; for finance and the banking system, for the substantial yields coming from the entire cycle financed in debt, and for important parts of the world of the professions. This negotiated programming model cannot be perpetuated further. The context has changed radically in a few years: the availability of land has ended, the continuous increase in revaluation income has ended, the tax has been reduced, the financial sources have been drastically reduced. On the other hand, it has become evident the environmental cost produced in recent years, in terms of the growth of vulnerability of our territory, thanks to a progressive waterproofing of the ground, which has greatly expanded the impacts of emergencies and climatic events. It is necessary then to have the courage to move from this chain of conveniences to a new chain of values for multiple benefit, that you look not only at the immediate, but at some generation forward; that you look not only at the direct financial aspect, but at a model that contains environmental safety and a preventive concern about the actions and their reflections: the awareness that what happens, if you change the source of a stream upstream, is reflected in the riverbed, downstream up to the mouth; the awareness that the induced artificialization of the hydraulic network has not solved but often worsened the effects. Consider research in this field as a strategic investment. Consider an investment the acquisition of new skills of technicians and operators, capable of seeking new balances that provide for a higher level of naturalness in the interventions. In short, a vision that manages to glimpse a real economy based on the care of the territory and not on the robbery and escape; a vision that considers the rural areas not territories of urban results, but places of elaboration of a new quality of development that can respond to the contemporary criticalities, such as pollution, failure, homologation, anonymity and generalization. To enter into a different vision means to see agriculture and its operators as a great opportunity: to recognise a new role for farmers, to keep in the mountains young people who can do agricultural business, means to change the approach between the public and the agricultural sector. Although Community legislation has long established this role with multifunctionality, the public resources transferred to private operators, in particular to farms, still take the form of the contribution: i.e. they are transferred as income aid according to the principles of decoupling and eco-conditionality introduced by European regulations. On the other hand, I believe it is crucial to bring this exchange of utility back as the contract whereby the community buys environmental services from farmers fully invested in this role. The reduced availability of viable economic resources and the need to improve the effectiveness of expenditure must be accompanied by an overall reordering of the logics governing the provision of public funds according to dedicated programming, specific to the territories. Convincing programming and certain resources are needed, especially certain ones: I venture to say even a few resources but certain, constant and programmable. This can really turn our backs on the approach from emergency to prevention. Now the reform of the new common agricultural policy (CAP) until 2020 gives us the opportunity to modulate the new specific policies from a national point of view; this is one of the major issues that Italy will have to put first in its national agricultural policy plans. For the farmer this approach of emergence of services can be an important factor of valorization, a new course in the trade of the farmer agricultural. In fact, if in the traditional economy it was nothing more than an underlying and invisible activity of food production, it can now emerge as a specific service of environmental conservation, consolidation of the slopes; so the farm, single or associated, can become one of the main interlocutors of the policies of maintenance of the slopes, of the reimmation of the waters. In my opinion, if we really want to talk about a widespread and impressive maintenance strategy that wants to be effective, we need to know how to look for new maintenance subjects. It is a strategy that could trigger an important modernisation of the agricultural sector, new knowledge and new skills of the farmer, nothing that resembles assistantism and income support regardless of, but measurement of actions, skills, new quality employment, defined criteria and parameters. We need a new conception of the government of the territory, in which soil erosion, water scarcity and devastation from too much water are not marginal but central themes, a sort of conscious self-government of the territory in a shared responsibility between the public system and agricultural enterprise, a new conception of rurality as a revitalization of territorial and ethical values, because we speak of responsibility towards future generations. However, while it is true that the deepest crises are decisive for courageous changes, even if this is a really difficult time, it is possible to indicate new choices, to highlight a new centrality of agriculture and that is the premise. It is no longer a sectoral issue, but something that belongs to all civil society. Today there is a demand from a political ruling class that has eyes to see all this. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Madam President, in view of the time allocated, I would ask you to allow me to deliver the full text of the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u17	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u18	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u19	Madam President, in the illustration of the motions we have seen that everyone is aware of the reasons for the hydrogeological failure: the technical data are clear to everyone and everyone seems clear the reasons. But I would like to focus on something different. There is a professor, a Neapolitan geologist, who says that the hydrogeological failure is undoubtedly the son of the ideological failure: we were cicadas when we were supposed to be ants; we dissipated a huge capital. And now, if we were to ask Esopus' ant what to do, it would answer us. Did you sing? Then dance now! We all know that in the 20 years 1989-2009 we felt that we were smart administrators, spending only 2 billion in 20 years on soil maintenance, and then spending well over 200 billion on emergency control. We were smart, weren't we? Were we good administrators or someone's pretty good backers? Because these large amounts of money have been used mainly for the operation of the cumbersome emergency machine. This was especially the case in the glorious years of Bertolaso's "Spa" civil protection, remember? No more talking about it. That funding has been used for relief, housing needs, assistance to displaced persons, to support and compensate productive activities that have suffered damage, for the first emergency interventions, that help yes GDP, but it is money thrown in the wind. But, after all, how much is estimated the necessary requirement for the realization of interventions for the overall settlement of situations of disruption throughout the national territory? I thought I understood no more than EUR 40 billion. So we would have saved 160: I repeat, we would have saved 160 billion euros. Then we could have told ourselves about good stewards of the common good, not the particular good of some. Of course we weren't wrong just not to invest, we were wrong to plan. We all said that. My colleague mentioned it in particular. We let the hydrogeological constraints and plans for the hydrogeological order (PAI) not be respected; we allowed the wild cementification to come - with abusive or parabusive works - to put people's lives at risk, closing their eyes and taking bribes, as if it were a minor damage. We always make this mistake: we don't look at it in the overall figure. We have short eyesight, we Italians, and we don't see beyond our noses. Our peninsula is characterized by having a particularly fragile territory, due to its relative youth, with a very extensive coastal development, which to a large extent is already affected by an increasing degree of erosion. It is also a generally seismic territory, because it is subject to the tectonic plates. In recent years - I have heard - natural phenomena that have generated death have been 237, with almost 2,000 victims. We remember Vajont, Valtellina, Piemonte, Sarno (in 1998). So ours is a particular and precious territory, which we should have preserved; we have not done so and we are not doing so yet. This majority is not doing so with the projects it has in place. What are we doing instead? Do we think of restoring Italy by drilling the country far and wide for the mad delusions of an oiled Italy, in search of spasmodic bad oil, oil of the bottom of the barrel? One cannot think of restoring Italy as if nobody lived here, realizing methane pipelines from Algeria, southern corridors of the Adriatic, regasifiers, doubling the extraction of hydrocarbons; as if nobody lived in this country, and instead it is a country too anthropized and badly urbanized, clearing, cementing the trees, artificializing the water streams and throwing us even waste. All this generated a change of course, did you open your eyes to the need to change strategy? No. The measure is full. While we are all here to speak and ask the Government to commit itself to an extraordinary effort (except for someone who talks about private insurance, this has somewhat disconcerted me), for the preservation of the territory, in order to maintain it in a hydrogeological balance, this same Government is directly and indirectly engaged in an impressive and unstoppable work of devastation of the territory, realizing and designing great useless works. But do we want to understand a good time that the only real great strategic work of our country must be the security of the territory and its reclamation? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We must safeguard the waters from pollution and protect the people from water, to quote my colleague Cioffi, structurally recover our primary goods, our true riches, our heritage, which on the contrary we continue to plunder as if we never saw the end of it. But the end is near. We have plundered, squandered, sold out and are still going to do so. Protests unheard of against the great useless works are multiplying throughout the country. The historical and stoic resistance of the communities in Val Susa is known to all and also the intellectuals like De Luca, who assimilate it to a country occupied by a foreign army. And it is true, since you have to hand over the documents to access your land and to go and cultivate them. In Veneto, last August 16, Fr Albino Bizzotto began the hunger strike to protest against the evil consumption of the territory that is underway in the North-East. The municipal council of Marano Vicentino joined the protest, whose members, in rotation, are involved in fasting. There are also protests in Sicily, against MUOS, Campania, Calabria, Lazio and the thermodestroyers. And to think that, for environmental choices, in 2011 Italy has transposed by national law the Aahrus Convention, which provides for public assemblies with contradictory in the phase of determining choices: what consistency! Among the many, too many examples, I would like to report a note from my colleague Enrico Cappelletti, the subject of a recent question by the 5 Star Movement to the Ministry of the Environment. The city of Vicenza goes underwater more or less every year. Every time we are amazed at the victims and the damage, but we do not draw any lessons from it because we forget that at the origin of the troubles are always the work of man, the cementification of the territories, the deforestation along the rivers and the lack of a geological and hydraulic maintenance of the territory. At the origin of the floods of Vicenza there is the recent realization in the city of an imposing building speculation of more than 100,000 square meters (the new court of Vicenza arose in Borgo Berga, renamed the echo of Vicenza) and of the adjacent building complex under construction, all close to the banks of the rivers Retrone and Bacchiglione, in total violation of the respect of the constraint of the 10 meters distance from the banks of the same rivers. Mr Cappelletti says: Here there are higher political responsibilities than the civil and criminal ones, responsibility of the two different color joints that have ruled over the last decade and that have led to one of the most valuable areas of the city, an area where it is difficult to build a veranda on the terrace for a common citizen, this shit sprung up over a soil contaminated with mud and oil, a landfill of industrial products not reclaimed. Mr Cappelletti explained that "the original sin of this eco-monster are the 25 million euros allocated by the Berlusconi Government to build it, on a land that was owned by the economic and financial empire of the family of the most famous prejudiced in Italy, Silvio Berlusconi. I mean, a huge conflict of interest. In conclusion, Cappelletti wishes the city: The German city of Dresden has been expelled from the UNESCO heritage cities because it has built a bridge; my hope is that a UNESCO official will not pass also to Vicenza. Stop this massive cementification operation in progress can still be done. Colleagues, courageous choices - and not just words - are needed to review and severely limit soil consumption, but necessary choices to prevent further, dramatic and inevitable disruption. Let's stop the cement before the cement stops us all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruvolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u21	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the hydrogeological risks in our country are widespread and constantly becoming: risks which, in such a humanized context as the Italian territory, have produced over 150,000 victims and a waste of economic resources comparable to different financial manoeuvres. It is therefore necessary to face a strict and rigorous policy of forecasting and prevention, which must necessarily involve all the scientific, technical and institutional structures of the country: from university, to research, from the professional to the administrative world, with the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the local authorities in the foreground. It is therefore necessary to activate proper management of the territory towards eco-development and environmental safety, drastically reducing or, in any case, bringing within acceptable limits the deleterious effects deriving from natural hazards, such as the hydrogeological failure. The hydrogeological failure is unfortunately spread almost evenly throughout the national territory, producing in terms of human lives and damages prices even higher than those caused by telluric events and volcanic eruptions. According to the Institute of Hydrogeological Research and Protection of the CNR, there have been 1,443 incidents in the country since 1960 between landslides, collapses and floods, with 4,122 deaths and 2,850 wounded. In fact, in Italy, almost 82% of the municipalities have problems of hydrogeological risks: in fact, 1,700 of them are at risk landslides, 1,285 flood risk and even 2,596 run both dangers, with the result - to be precise - that in fifty years in the country something like 500,000 landslides have occurred. According to the CRESME (Centre for Economic, Social and Market Research for Building and Land) damage to the disaster in the last sixty years costs 52 billion euros for repair, while it needs another 40 for good prevention. In the last four years, the investments of the Ministry of the Environment to keep the hydrogeological risk under control have been almost zero. It was an unfair cut and we don't understand why. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, do we really think we can save by cutting the funds for the prevention of hydrogeological risks? That is the question we have to ask ourselves. I do not think so, because it is certified that the State, in the event of disastrous events, risks spending at least ten times more, precisely because, in the absence of targeted interventions, the costs of repairing damage and removing mud flows are enormous. It is one thing that has already happened for the floods of Veneto, Tuscany, Marche and Campania, for the landslides in Sicily or, again, for the alluvial events of the past months in the territories of Emilia-Romagna and Liguria. To better confirm, I will mention only one fact: in 2007 the estimated value of the damage caused in the different regions was 0.035 percent of GDP (one percentage point of GDP is worth about 14 billion euros), without of course considering the victims and the million people involved. Nevertheless, it must be denounced that in the country, with a territory torn apart by the Alps in Pantelleria, these risks are often still ignored and neglected by those responsible for spatial planning, justifying their fatality, when in fact the calamitous events are systematically presented now in one region, now in the other. To speak, therefore, of unpredictability or geological surprise is irresponsible, precisely because the defense against risks and hydrogeological disruptions is imposed in terms of prediction and prevention. Unfortunately, Italy still lacks the culture of environmental recovery, which in fact translates into prediction and prevention. We do not realize that the country is at very high risk and needs to be cared for and cared for because it is extremely subject to structural fragility. From us we should impose prudence and urban intelligence, blocking the continuous derogations from the urban regulations, the abusive and invasive constructions, the wild cementification and the unconsulted predation of the territory. Instead, it should be invested, with appropriate forms of territorial planning, on the prevention works and especially on agriculture, which cannot be abandoned, because, together with the woods and pine forests, presidia and care the territory and its vegetative structure and, as such, it is the true paladine for the fight against drought and hydrogeological risk, degradation and climate change. There is therefore an obligation for the Government and Parliament to adopt redevelopment policies in favour of agriculture and its strategic value as a fundamental and unique garrison for the consolidation and extraordinary maintenance of the territory and the environment, in order to counter the desertification of the hills and mountains for the repetition of calamitous and emergent episodes ever more serious and difficult to resolve with the abandonment of the countryside and rural spaces, especially by the younger generations. It is clear, therefore, that integrated interventions and environmental prevention, together with the plans to secure the territory, are the only ones that can interrupt in the future the hydrogeological criticalities. Not to mention, then, earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, phenomenologies of the rest quite present in our peninsula. In our country we are always late on environmental policy issues. In September 2012, after the ruinous collapse of one of the most beautiful walks in the world, the way of love, at the Cinque Terre, the Minister of the Environment of that time, Clini, declared that a national plan for the prevention and security of the territory would be made immediately. Unfortunately, after a year, we are still waiting. In order to understand the importance of the problem, the culture of information and risk prevention should be re-launched, with active participation in particular in schools and among young people. It must be realised that a plan for the reduction and management of hydrogeological risks is an extraordinary instrument for economic and employment recovery and as such must be addressed, overcoming the approach to one-off or absolute urgency interventions which - designed on the basis of the emotions of the moment and, I would add, of particular interests - are not always able to solve the serious problems associated with the hydrogeological problems of soils; such critical problems that, at times, constitute a serious threat to the loss of naturalness and biodiversity. Unfortunately, Madam President, we are reminded of intervening with integrated programmes for the protection and hydrogeological maintenance of the territory together with environmental redevelopment only with the emergence of emergencies in order to forget them, as if for enchantment, immediately a minute later, and then to talk about them again at the occurrence of the new calamitous event. We therefore need a serious and responsible policy, starting with the establishment of a single authority for environmental emergencies and hydrogeological disruptions. It is not possible that for a disaster the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Region, the Province, the Civil Protection, the Forestry Corps must still intervene: in the end you never understand anything! Is it possible, Mr. Representative of the Government, to unify the interventions so that there is only one body, a single authority in charge of managing that event, that calamity that always causes deaths and disasters? Moreover, in Italy we have forgotten the importance of a reforestation policy; I do not know how many years there have been no reforestation programmes. We are also lacking in the ordinary maintenance of rivers and waterways. In this respect, authorisations and concessions for the production of hydropower should be planned. Mr Undersecretary, let me explain to you what happens in this area: with an authorization of 1933, this production was granted to ENEL who, in times of serious difficulty, opens up the invaders by ensuring that the avalanche water arrives on the rivers, with considerable damage to people before and after. I believe that this motion is an act of great responsibility of Parliament and the Government in order to activate the minimum forms of security, aimed at allowing greater serenity for our territory. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Scalia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to speak after Mr Ruvolo del PdL, whom I listened carefully because he wanted to outline, exactly as Mrs Nugnes, my colleagues in the Group of the Party of European Socialists and others who preceded them, the need and urgency of working on the subject we call the hydraulic and geological disruption of Italian territory, of which two large containers, so to speak, should necessarily be concerned. The first is the Ministry of the Environment, which on this subject has already expressed the will, as my colleague Mr Vaccari correctly recalled, to carry out with determination draft laws that can actually bring Italy back to the beehive of Community countries as regards investments in the ordinary maintenance of watercourses in particular, but not only. Then there is the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies. The previous colleague is a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and so I address him, too, when I say that we have extraordinary opportunities, of which it would be appropriate for us to take note when we talk about the serious deficit and the serious delay that our country is experiencing on these issues. The OECD reports that, continuing at this rate, in 2015 in Italy, only 11% of underground water bodies will achieve the ecological status targets set by the EU Water Directive 2000/60/EC and that only two thirds of surface water bodies will be able to meet the principle of good quality in the management of plumbing systems indicated, precisely, in 2000. With reference to the canals, the rivers and everything that has to do with the underground infrastructure networks, Italy is facing a serious delay, of which it is good to be fully aware, because only thanks to the analysis of the existing we will be able to produce (I hope and I hope), with an understanding that seems common and collective, a reversal of tendency regarding the topic of the water bodies. But we discount another deficiency: only 530 Italian municipalities out of 8,092 have building regulations that contain water management requirements. This shows that policy has not yet been able to understand the need for coordination in this area. An analysis mentioned in our motion, which I think should be a little 'general indicator', denounces that in twenty years to repair has spent a hundred times what has been spent on prevention. That would be enough to convince us all to work low on the existing. Water, therefore, is a great absentee in the policies of this country. The Water Directive 2000/60/EC and the Floods Directive 2007/60/EC, referred to by my colleagues, give us indications that can lead us, from the start, to make very concrete arguments, as is appropriate for those who have to find resources to solve problems. First of all, I would like to give a figure: we will have EUR 280 billion available, an enormous and extraordinary figure allocated with the reform of the CAP (Common Agricultural Policy) in the field of greening, which can bring oxygen and, therefore, economics to all environmental mitigation activities, ensuring that they no longer have, for the waters, the restricted and bound hives of these last decades and can instead retrain, as happens in Switzerland and France, the river corridors. As we wrote in motion 29, we must recover and reconnect flood areas, reactivate the correct and correct mobility of rivers, relocate buildings and structures at risk. For this reason, it is not enough to speak for slogans on this issue, but we really need to put in the field policies that finally manage to make us recover those financial resources that are in the availability of the countries most active in this area. So far, however, we have been absolutely silent and very often we have left those resources in the availability of European heritage, de facto returning them to a common home that offered them to improve our environmental quality. Now this can no longer be tolerated, just as one cannot forget the experience of countries that are symbolic from the point of view of work, which have managed to achieve important results. I am referring, for example, to Germany, where, thanks to the bank KfW, owned 80% by the Federal Republic and 20% by the district Länds, it was possible to finance that share of the stability pacts relating to municipalities and regions that obviously cannot be found only through the financial resources granted by the European Union, but must be identified within the country. To quote our reality, I stress that within the Regional Council of Veneto, of which I have been a member, many times we have wondered whether we would have been able to find that 20, 30 or 40 percent that should be put in the availability of the Region rather than the Municipalities in order to realize, for example, those works useful to avoid that the same floods and the same environmental disasters, that cause deaths and wounds, besides producing a reduction of the gross domestic product of our Country are repeated. Well, we also do like Germany, that is, we make the deposit and loan fund available for this financing, or we revise the stability pacts in such a way that our municipalities and our local realities can actually have the necessary resources to put in order a territory that has been disorganized and that pays the price of this bad organization. When we talk about great works, we never say what they produce in terms of employment: ordinary maintenance produces from 10,000 to 20,000 jobs per billion invested. This is a huge amount because jobs are multiplied by every billion invested compared to major works. In order to ensure maintenance, better national coordination is necessary compared to the river districts, of which the importance is known and that perhaps they could be brought from eight to nine, trying to coordinate them in a punctual and effective way, which up to now has not been absolutely successful in our country. All this can bring Italy back not only to a material well-being, but also to an environmental one, which has been lost, and can represent a huge opportunity for employment, which is fundamental in order to manage the territory wisely and productively. We therefore use the Community funds that are made available to us by the CAP for greening; we use the Community funds that are explicitly earmarked for combating the hydraulic and geological disruption; we are planning a coordinated plan, identifying responsibilities and also setting as an objective the effectiveness of management, for those needs that we consider unavoidable. We expect, as has been done in France, with the Grenelles, a great form of collective participation, so that indeed all citizens... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puppato, please finish your speech. PUPPATE (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President. I said that with public participation, citizenship can be properly informed: they put, black on white, together with citizens, productive realities and associations, those tangible objectives on the main issues that are absolutely feasible and that for the present of our country represent a really inescapable necessity. [[Applause from the PD Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u24	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u27	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Madam President, I would ask you to postpone the conclusion of the debate on this item on the agenda until the beginning of this afternoon's sitting, because there is a work going on between the Groups, which I hope will be successful in drawing up a unitary agenda for convergence, replacing the individual motions tabled by the Groups. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Without comment, the Presidency accepts Senator Ghedini's proposal. I shall therefore refer the following question to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u30	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Madam President, in the Senate Chamber, historically, the issues concerning South Tyrol-South Tyrol have always received great attention and resonance, that is, a part of Italy that has repeatedly gone up to the honour of the chronicles for its historical events and for the phenomenon of coexistence between Italians and Germans present in that region. The current election campaign in South Tyrol is likely to be poisoned by the signing of an agreement between President Durnwalder and the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Graziano Delrio. This affair, which is curiously already the subject of the election campaign, is the reason for my speech: there are some members of the Government, such as Mr Biancofiore, who are turning to those realities, local, in their view, denouncing that the agreement would have an anti-Italian meaning, while others defend it, claiming the opposite. Madam President, the problem I want to highlight is that we should still be in a Republic where there is a Parliament. I therefore find it a little strange that an agreement signed by the Government and the Autonomous Province, through its President, and which is already the subject of an election campaign, is unknown to Parliament because no one has sent it. I then formally request that the Senate Presidency ask the Government for the text of the agreement, after which everyone can legitimately take its guidelines or give its judgments on the content of this agreement, which concerns toponymying and the possibility of using billboarding in the two languages, stating whether or not it has been balanced, whether it is acceptable or not and whether it must be or not subject to controversy. I therefore call for the protection of Parliament's prerogatives, which must be able to understand the content of this agreement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency will take charge of your request, Senator Giovanardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-94.ana.u31	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.51 p.m.
