ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 9.59 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u6	Colleagues, let's resume our work. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure starts (10 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u9	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] ). Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate of the Republic today recalls the bicentenary of the birth of Giuseppe Verdi, according to a tradition always maintained in this Chamber, where he exercised his duties as senator until his death in 1901. After his first work, "Oberto Conte di San Bonifacio" (Oberto Conte di San Bonifacio), with the "Nabucco" (Nabucco) the enormous success of the public that marked all his subsequent works was definitively established: ==References====External links==* Official website Following a long journey from London to Paris, he writes "The Battle of Legnano" in which the expulsion of Frederick Barbarossa by the Lombard municipalities symbolizes the ransom and pride of a proud nation, wounded and conscious of its history. In the collective imagination, the name of Giuseppe Verdi remains so linked to the motto "Viva Verdi," Viva Vittorio Emanuele Re D'Italia, written on the walls of Rome in 1859, on the eve of the representation of "Un ballo in maschera". These works solder forever his figure to the Risorgimento instances and his enthusiasm for the unitary process became the commitment and program of his own life, to the point that he put the national cause before his own artistic production. With very firm words, Verdi said: I would not write a note for all the gold of the world, compared to the ideal of the Unity of Italy. In 1848, at the request of Giuseppe Mazzini, he composed the music of a national anthem: He plays the trumpet (Hymn of Nations). There follows, written a short distance from each other, the works that today are called romantic: "Rigoletto", "Il trovatore" and "La traviata". The years of renewed political commitment are those that begin in 1861, with the Unity of Italy; at the impulse of Cavour, who writes to him personally on 10 January, he is elected Member of the first Italian Parliament, but refuses to run again at the end of the legislature. On 15 November 1874 he was appointed senator, for having illustrated the Homeland. In these years works are written that give his figure to the universal memory: ==References====External links==* Official website The latter, in particular, is commissioned by the Egyptian Government on the occasion of the opening of the Suez Canal. Another memorable event is the representation of the Requiem, written for the first anniversary of the death of Alessandro Manzoni. Other masterpieces, taken from Shakespeare's works are "Otello" and "Falstaff" inspired by the encounter with Arrigo Boito. The last works - which distinguish the final phase of his life - are of sacred inspiration: the "Te Deum" (Te Deum), the "Ave Maria" (Ave Maria), the "Stabat Mater" (Stabat Mater). Verdi's music therefore has a scan, I would say an existential cadence, composed as a sort of indissoluble interweaving between space and time. It is Verdi who clearly clarifies his idea of music. When someone turned to him and said: "We have come to pay homage to the greatest musician," he abruptly replied: No, no, let the great musician go. I'm a theater man. It is therefore not a mere coincidence the artistic epilogue of his life with compositions of a religious character, nor his ideal conclusion with the Requiem, composed for the death of Alessandro Manzoni, not only esteemed by him, but also publicly admired. Verdi and Manzoni seem almost in dialogue with each other in the alternation of the passages of the "Messa da Requiem" (Messa da Requiem). Both immersed in the concreteness of human drama, of reality narrated and sung, with simplicity and greatness. A greatness that every person, even if of different social extraction or different degree of acculturation, could understand, appreciate, interiorize. Giuseppe Verdi, in a famous letter to the publisher Ricordi, had called himself "a little' atheist." Yet it is by no means paradoxical that two Popes, John Paul II and Benedict XVI, have repeatedly recalled this. The first, admiring his art that has contributed in a vibrant and passionate way to nourish in the Italians love for homeland and unity, fundamental values for the life of a nation. The second, on the occasion of a concert in front of the President of the Republic, and, significantly, a few days before his renunciation of the Petrine mandate, paid tribute to the great Italian musician in the year in which we celebrate the two hundred years since his birth. In his works he always strikes how he has been able to musically grasp and outline the situations of life, especially the dramas of the human soul, in such an immediate, incisive and essential way as rarely found in the musical panorama. The strength of destiny is realized up to the extreme consequences the sense of anxiety and search of man of all time. In the version of 1862, for St. Petersburg, Don Alvaro ends his life as a suicide, rejects the religious habit almost invoking hell. In the version of 1869, for La Scala di Milano, Don Alvaro welcomed the word of the Friar Guardian who invited him to trust God's forgiveness and the last words of the work were "Go up to God." Two different versions of the same work, to affirm the value of human dignity above earthly events, but also to represent plastically the tragic and combated character of all the Verdi protagonists. They are the interpreters of human tragedy, which is immersed in the ever-living tension between ideal and real. There is therefore no sadness in Verdi, but the expectation: a sort of permanent dialectic that oscillates between the radically earthly dimension and the metaphysical aspiration. His art therefore bears witness, teaching and, as he stated in this Chamber, on 27 January 1901, Antonio Fogazzaro: A king Giuseppe Verdi was truly sovereign; he was sovereign for the very high ingenuity; he was sovereign for the magisterium of art (...); he was finally sovereign for an outstanding primacy in the supreme harmony of intellect and soul, in the modest simplicity of grandeur. For this reason - Fogazzaro concluded - Giuseppe Verdi was a great unifier and the distinctions of faiths and parts suspended, a throbbing only collects the Italians around him. The celebrations promoted on the occasion of the bicentenary of the birth are therefore in ideal continuity with the celebrations of the Italian cultural identity on the 150th anniversary of the Unity. As was mentioned in this House on 26 January 1951, his music was also politically unifying. As D'Annunzio wrote: "He gave a voice to hopes, to mourners. He wept and loved everyone. And what Verdi knew how to interpret is the heritage of all of us, because culture is our identity that sustains us even in the harshest trials. The Italian people love Verdi, because they understand him, they consider him an interpreter of his aspirations, sorrows and hopes of the entire nation. And still today his music, his memory, his thought flies on the golden wings of an Italy that must rediscover the strength and hope of its destiny. ( [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u12	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 October 1813 this country greeted the birth of a noble and austere man, one of those profiles that have affirmed in the world the face of a Italy rich in talent and passion. Each of us has learned to know Verdi artist ever since, among the school benches, our teachers warmed our hearts inviting us to learn and sing the wonderful air of the "Va," thought. And with memory I also go back to the character profile that our teachers outlined at school, presenting to us this great composer, austere man, even grumpy, not inclined to compliments and hostile to celebrations. A man who preferred silence to words, when he thought that all outwards have something little heard. It is then with great modesty and so much respect for the Verdi man, as well as great composer, that I speak in this Chamber today, because, in any case, we cannot allow this bicentenary of birth to pass unnoticed for an artist who is unanimously recognized as the composer who more than all contributed to the birth and development of the value of national identity, and of love for his homeland. The patriotic works of Verdi, from "Nabucco" to "Ernani", from "The Battle of Legnano" to "The five days of Milan" constitute a true soundtrack of the Risorgimento, but my territorial origin and my being part of the Sicilian people cannot fail to remind me of the drama where this patriotism is most evident and that is that magnificent and great work that is "The Sicilian Vespers"; so patriotic that it is then censored. In fact, for the first performance in Paris in 1855 the name was changed and changed to that of Guzman's Joan, and with a performance with more in Sicily but in Portugal. The Sicilian Vespers are set in Sicily in 1282, occupied by the invaders of the turn, the Angevins. The main theme of the work is the liberation of Sicily from oppression. I like to recall today the historical data of that day: on March 30, 1282, when on the churchyard of the Church of the Holy Spirit, where the people were gathering to attend the vespers, a Frenchman named Drouet molested a young Sicilian bride; the fact provoked the immediate reaction of her husband and all this while ringing the bells of vespers. In a moment the tumult widens with oil stain for the city of Palermo and for the whole island, to the cry of "moranu" the French, the oppressors succumb to the revolt. It is a great example in European history, because it would have led little by little to the dissolution of the empire of Charles I. Amor di Patria, therefore, that makes some Sicilian out-of-dates act, such as Giovanni Da Procida, really existed character, who returns exile in Sicily and to whom Verdi says: "O Homeland, dear Homeland, alfin I see you!" A yearning for gratitude pervades me then reminding Verdi, who with these expressions stimulates in us the commitment to cultivate our identity as a people, to oppose the old and new oppressions, to the new invaders: the bad information, the common places, the cultural dismantling, the growing impoverishment, and that new emigration that today makes slaves so many young people, and not only the young, forced to look elsewhere for a horizon of the future. Therefore, it is with these sentiments that I want to remember today the "Cigno di Busseto", because through his works he always holds in us the golden wings of freedom, while echoing in our heart, never so much, a call to lift up the forehead so outraged and to pick up the "primier splendor" (Translated with Google Translate) [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u15	GAMBARO (Mixed). Mr President, this year throughout the world the anniversary of the bicentenary of the birth of king of the melodrama is celebrated: Giuseppe Verdi. In line with the aspirations of the romantic movement, the composer felt the need to renew the world of melodrama, in its various aspects: formal, scenic, instrumental. In response to the ideals of Risorgimento freedom, Verdi also became the symbol of Italian identity. It is in this sense that his work should be more appreciated, which was nevertheless characterized and supported by the musical genius that made his masterpieces unforgettable. Son of peasants, he never forgot the dignity of his humble origins, dedicating himself with stubbornness to the care of the earth and to the conditions of those who worked it. A romantic who knew how to interpret human sentiment as few. In addition to the musical genius, I would also like to remind you of your political commitment. The Italians admire not only the master's art, but the high moral stature and civic conduct. Verdi was part of the pro-dramatic society of Busseto, a very politicized organism characterized, as well as a natural propensity towards music, by strong patriotic drives. Verdi is very young in the writing of a musical score and a text referring to "Il Cinque Maggio" ("The Five May"), Manzoni's ode on the death of Napoleon. We're in the '30s. The mother and the fatherland, little known piece, is a vocal song markedly patriotic, typical ballad of the first Risorgimento, which embodies youthful ideals, unitary drives and vaguely radical attitudes. With the opera "Nabucco", staged at the Teatro alla Scala in Milan in 1842, he received a triumphant welcome, not only for the indisputable value of music, but also for its political implications. As is known in fact, at that moment in an oppressed and divided Italy, the public identifies with the conflict recreated in the drama. The Risorgimento, the struggles for unification of Italy, could not leave indifferent the sensitive soul of the composer. In addition to Nabucco, the Lombards at the first crusade, Attila and Macbeth also express Verdi's sincere patriotic love and sorrow for an oppressed people. The name of the master will remain forever linked to the ideals of the Risorgimento, transforming itself into a revolutionary acrostic, "Viva Verdi!," to read "Viva Vittorio Emanuele Re D'Italia!," written for the first time on the walls of Rome at the time of "Un ballo in maschera". The graffito alluded to an aspiration that over the years was becoming more and more popular and shared. Verdi himself ends up believing in this project when he understands that the unity of the country can be realized not so much through the popular insurrection and the republican utopia of Mazzini, but exclusively with a patient diplomatic work. In 1859 in Sant'Agata, Verdi, together with his second wife, the soprano Giuseppina Strepponi, became the promoter of a subscription for the wounded of war. After the victory against the Austrians, the composer was appointed to represent the People's Assembly; the Assembly unanimously approved the union of Parma Provinces with the Kingdom of Sardinia. When the Risorgimento dream finally comes true, Verdi is part of the first Italian Parliament in Turin in 1861. The teacher has a leading sponsor, Cavour, who is personally committed to being elected to parliament, despite some concerns of the same Greens who, however, remain in office until the end of the term of office. In 1874 he was appointed Senator of the Kingdom. Verdi's participation in political life is intense and sincere, but it concerns man. The artist refuses and never allows his art to be placed at the service of foreign ends, even if noble. Verdi's melody remains a voice of national consciousness and an authentic and decisive force of our ransom. I conclude by saying that the best way to honor Giuseppe Verdi is certainly not to kill the opera foundations. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u18	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on October 10, two centuries ago Giuseppe Verdi was born, the music of which stands out in the hearts of the people as a universal heritage. It is impossible to concentrate in a few words the importance of Verdi's creation in the history of music, both for the level of his genius, and for the very long time span of his compositional season, as well as for his incredible capacity for renewal that made him touch, at eighty years, with "Falstaff" (Falstaff), one of the summits of the musical theatre. The music of Giuseppe Verdi has become already during his life, but even more over the hundred years that separate us from his death, a universal heritage of culture. Verdi spends eighty years of his eighty-eighty-year life in his Emilian land around Ongina. It only leaves eight years, from 1839 to 1846, to become Milanese. For the rest his life is the life of a commuter always traveling among the places he loves: Paris, Genoa, Milan. And the cities of its great first: Venice, Florence, Rome, Petersburg, London, making punctually return among the fog, between the banks, the poplars and the Emilian farms. The place of the places is only here, even if the most famous photographs show it in Piazza della Scala, even if it dies in Milan and will be buried in Milan. In short, the vocation and his first musical projects begin here. Music and life kneaded with fogs, with heats, kneading with the solitudes between the banks, with the shakesperian desire to invent the true. In 1839 it was, of course, the tear. He moved with his family to Milan, but his Milanese life was a torment and triumph: in October Romano died, the son of a year and four months; in November he was on stage with great success "Oberto Conte di San Bonificio" (Oberto Count of San Bonificio), but on 18 June 1840 he was still mourning with the death of his wife, Margherita Barezzi. Milan seems horrible to him, a place to leave. But then comes in 1842 the triumph of the "Nabucco" and the city applauds it, courtes it, and makes it a resurgent political myth. For six years Verdi seems a perfect Milanese: he chooses the world of living rooms, he likes women, patriots, literary people. Triumph. These are the years of that extraordinary commitment that he himself will call "galera." Bake one work after another. After the "Nabucco" it is the turn, in 1843, of "I lombardi" at the first crusade, then "Ernani" and "I due phoscari" in 1844, and then "Giovanna d'Arco" (John of Arc), "Alzira" (Alzira), "Attila" (Attila) and "Macbeth" (Macbeth) in 1847. But success only changes in appearance. Just look, to better understand, that this Verdi is an optical illusion: behind the Milanese facade there is always the son of the host who dreams of the land, his land, the loneliness between the woods and the farms. Mr President, I will hand over the remaining part of my speech to the Presidency, not least because it is difficult to draw a few words back to the estimate that, two centuries after its birth, it must be given to Master Giuseppe Verdi. It is certainly a pity to pay a homage in this House, which, if it were to be requested again, would probably still lack the quorum. It must also be remembered that Giuseppe Verdi is not only a test of rhetorical exercise, but it is - as we will often hear in the following speeches - the very essence of an identity. Thinking about Giuseppe Verdi and not reconnecting to the "Nabucco" seems impossible. Even today, thinking about Nabucco and not thinking that in recent years it has been linked to a political force such as the North League seems impossible. Certainly this is not accidental, because if - as it was in the Risorgimento motions - this hymn represented a moment of strength and coagulation for a people, for us it still appears today that yearning, that hope for a freedom not found, to that "patria so beautiful lost" that for us still remains to be found. Mr President, I would very much like this to be a not rhetorical moment, but a moment of real participation in the celebrations for the memory of Giuseppe Verdi, which unfortunately appears far from the reality of this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u19	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the text of your speech to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u20	We greet the ITIS Institute in Rome, which follows our work on the occasion of the commemoration of Giuseppe Verdi. Thanks, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u23	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, before I dedicate the minutes available to me for a reflection on the figure of Giuseppe Verdi, may I suggest to your attention, first and foremost, that you consider other ways of celebrating such important characters. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] Believe me: it is frustrating for those who speak, it is perhaps tiring for those who want to listen and can become demeaning for a giant like Giuseppe Verdi. I'm starting my reflection now. Ladies and gentlemen, kind President, Italy has given the world men and scores of international fame with which the Italian cultural identity continues to identify itself in the world. In this brief speech I would like to avoid the risk and almost obligation of celebratory rhetoric to concentrate on a very specific point, that complex and fascinating interweaving of ethics, aesthetics and politics, that in Italian history, especially in certain tormented and decisive phases such as the Renaissance and the Risorgimento, marked the stages of our growth, of which Giuseppe Verdi was respectively original heir and maximum interpreter. At the very beginning of the Renaissance the long-lasting fashion of the trip to Italy begins. This is the time when great masters begin to arrive, like the Franco-Flemish fathers of the Musical Renaissance. A community of intellectuals is created parallel to that formidable community of Italian intellectuals - Botticelli, Michelangelo, Leonardo, Leon Battista Alberti, and I could continue - that in a short time will make central Italy the aesthetic capital of the world. The powerful families - then yes - understood and understand the ethical value of this heritage and transform it into a political project: the Medici in Florence, the Gonzaga in Mantua, the Montefeltro in Urbino value their musical and artistic talents and consider them useful in court life as in the exercise of power. In other words, it affirms an Italian model, in which culture and politics are inseparable parts. In this phase of progressive affirmation of this model in the European context there is a great technical and musical innovation, which is the work in music, which will spread Italy and Italian in the world, as language, as culture and as a system of values. The melodrama is born and affirmed in its basically political function. But this social model, which is reflected in the music of the opera, is changing very quickly and the virus of democracy - I would like to define it in this way - spreads just as quickly, also in music and in Italian, starting from the Enlightenment France of the second eighteenth century. The great heir to this democratic and popular tradition is not Puccini, who at the beginning of the twentieth century invented the western and developed in music the intimate labor of modernity. The real heir is Giuseppe Verdi, who we commemorate today, who puts Giuseppe Mazzini's political project into music, spreading his values through his works: democratic, progressive and European values. Verdi is immediately a choral and popular author. Starting from the "Nabucco" he staged a suffering humanity, marginalized, silent protagonist of the process of annexation and unification of the country, as has already been said. Of this humanity he becomes a natural interpreter also in the choice of contexts of representation. Think of the musical bands and how much they have been a vehicle of diffusion of culture outside the theatres, in the squares and streets, where the unitary identity is born and fueled. While Verdi explores his latest creative resources in the "Otello" and the "Falstaff" (Falstaff), he also begins that dramatic process of emigration of about two million Italians at the end of the nineteenth century, who seek new dignity and new forms of success in the New World, in the Americas. Verdi's music also sounds for them, for this Fourth State that from the choir "Va' thought, outside and within Italy, explodes that Mazzinian idea of a possible democracy. I think that, even in the absence of a personal political commitment from the Greens and Senator, it would have made great sense to celebrate it in this House today, because Verdi is the author of politics in all his works, pointing to models of behaviour where democracy is an acquired fact, equality is affirmed as a natural right and the emancipation of women as a parameter to be conquered. We must make a commitment today, Mr President, in this House to ensure that culture and politics regain the naturalness of marching together and are again the protagonists of today's Italian scene. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u26	MUSSINI (M5S). Mr President, on 27 January 1901, Senator Fogazzaro, whom you recalled, wrote that Giuseppe Verdi was also a king in the tireless, indomitable energy, that today only rested and worked again when all the glory that this land can give was already his, and there was no more than a cult to render ideal, there was no more than an example of a magnificent worker to show the Italian people and the world. I have allowed myself to integrate Fogazzaro's speech and the words you have reported because at this moment I am not so interested in retracing the luminous career of this great musician, something already done by colleagues who preceded me, but I am particularly interested in remembering Giuseppe Verdi for his role as a man of culture, as Civis of a nation, the Italian one, which came to form in the 19th century. Verdi has gone through a fundamental era for European history, in which modernity has transformed our country from a fragmentary mosaic to a national state. In his works, in which libretto and music were indissolubly linked, this dramatist in music was able to project our country into an international horizon. I am not just referring to the worldwide success of his melodramas, from the "Aida" commissioned by Egypt for the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869 to the works by Verdi written for the Paris Opéra, such as the "Don Carlo" of 1867. Here I intend to underline the master's strong will to bring them to Italy, spreading them through the art he chose and which was highly popular and complete, the drama for music, themes from the French literary landscape first and Shakespeare then, then totally unusual for the European middle class, to the point of being considered scabrose. Verdi bended, in this artistic tension, to accept to submit to censory reviews the "Rigoletto" provided that a deformed court clown could be staged, in order to render the power of the sublime sought in the grotesque. I would like to highlight another aspect: to this musician Italy not only owes music, which is a patrimony of humanity, but owes a more complex cultural and national growth, which surpasses the rhetoric of many celebrators of the "Va' thought, due to the tension, inherent in the work of Verdi, to the renewal and artistic experimentation and, more slowly, cultural continues. His life as a protagonist is, therefore, based - as is apparent from Fogazzaro's words - on the ethics of work and commitment to art. I would like to mention here the entrepreneurial commitment in the farm of Sant'Agata, near Villanova di Piacenza: a Verdi that was both entrepreneur and philanthropist, as we would like to see in our country today, attentive not only to its employees, but also to technological innovations that could improve the quality of production. An opening to socialism, economy and daily life, that of Verdi, who pushed him to the establishment of the retirement home for musicians in Milan and the foundation of the hospital in Villanova. This hospital, in the storm of the closure of small hospitals, knew, exactly in the spirit of its founder, to be converted and today has become a modern rehabilitation center. It is in relation to these links with civil and political institutions that I would like to recall the teacher. I would like to remind you, Mr Grasso, that the land of Emilia, of which Verdi is a luminous representative, is capable of rising, moving forward and experimenting. It is a land where the experimentation on sound, the collection of documentation, the ability to keep alive memory are today represented by institutions that are in the city of Parma and that are the House of Music and the Verdi Documentation Center. Now, in Law 238 of 2012, only four international festivals are established and, incredibly, there is no recognition at the Verdi Festival. I, President Grasso, ask you to help us to insert it and to ensure that today's celebration does not remain a rhetorical celebration, but that it is really a point and a moment of awareness, so that this space of research, unrepeatable, can really be realized where the documentation and culture of music and sound exists, as well as the cult of the musician. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u29	Mr Mazzoni (PdL). Mr President, I believe it is not only right, but absolutely right that the Senate of the Republic should remember today Giuseppe Verdi, two hundred years after his birth. But I think it is equally right to do so soberly, remembering that Verdi was a man who was always refractory to celebrations and celebrations, especially public ones. And we should also remember and learn from him that his words, like his music, ran unadulterated, directly to the minds and hearts of the Italians. We are in a political assembly and Verdi, as well as the down great Italian composer, was very lucid also in the things of politics, a fiery patriot, then disillusioned by Italy Umbertina. He was part of the first Italian Parliament in Turin, in 1861, after having overcome a thousand personal perplexities, although already then the country wanted him almost as a living deputy of the Kingdom; then he was appointed senator for life in 1874. The disillusionment, indeed, was his mantra in the last years of life. "The gratitude" - he wrote in a letter to a friend - "is also a burden for individuals: imagine if the men of government can hear it and less yet the crowd of businessmen who populate Montecitorio." In the inveterate and unshakable vice of the Italian provincialism, we managed to pull from one side or the other also the "Nabucco" and its sublime "Go thought," which, with the translated form of the biblical subject, evokes, with an extraordinary expressive force, the nostalgia of the Italians for a common homeland. But Nabucco was not born with propagandistic intents: Viva Verdi, in fact, will be born only in the fifties, on the eve of the War of Independence of 1859. One thing, however, is historically certain: Verdi never intended to make politics through his works, even if they were later politically declined in the collective imagination. But the figure of Verdi still represents for Italy the sum of all those symbols that led it to unification against foreign oppression. He was together a father of the Homeland and an absolute genius of music. And it was perhaps not a case of history that was born in the same year as Wagner, on 1813. When he was young they reproached him for not being Wagner and not being Rossini; they also reproached him for being proudly jealous of his peasant origins, so much so that the reviewers of his first works came to claim that among Verdi's notes he always felt inside the sound of the spade. A grotesque accusation, because the Verdi composer was actually larger, much larger than the storms that broke out than Wagner's semicromes. His melodrama was in fact, and remains, the strong and harmonious summa of immortal music. To put things right he had to think about the next century, with the exemplary executions of Arturo Toscanini. One fact is certain: today's Italy is still recognized in Verdi and its language as in the most Italian of musicians. When he pronounces his name suddenly comes to mind the great Risorgimento events that made Italy politically united and that had in him and in his music a strong impulse. Italy at that time was, politically, still a mosaic of states and in a few decades became a single nation, with Verdi's notes, precisely, to act as a patriotic metronome, so much so as to become one of the greatest symbols of Italian identity. Greens remain, therefore, a voice of national consciousness and a genuine and decisive force of our desire for ransom. As they authoritatively recall the words spoken yesterday by master Riccardo Muti, Verdi is a giant of music that represents Italian identity, making it become universal. Today more than ever, then, Mr President, let us say: 'Viva Verdi'! [[Applause from the GAL and PdL groups and the Senators Ferrara and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u32	Martini (PD). Mr President, as has already been mentioned, Giuseppe Verdi was a musician and a Member of Parliament. This seems to be the proper place to remember the senator and the patriot, rather than the operist. It was Marco Minghetti, then Head of Government, who appointed Giuseppe Verdi as Senator of the Kingdom. And it was the King of Italy Vittorio Emanuele II who decreed it, in November 1874. It was an appointment from the highest authority of the Kingdom, not an election by the electoral corps. Giuseppe Verdi had already had it in the Chamber of Deputies in February 1861. Cavour himself had urged him and then convinced him to run for office in Borgo San Donnino, the current Fidenza, where he defeated his opponent at the ballot by 339 votes to 206, out of 978 entitled. They were still very limited times of suffrage, by gender and by census. Verdi reacted with boldness to the outstanding proposal. He wrote to Countess Clarina Maffei: "Wasn't it better for someone else to go and occupy that place? What did I do? And what can I do? It's a great embarrassment to me, and it's no good to anyone. Behind his hard character, however, there was an awareness of the importance of the high office and the benefit that his name, known and loved by millions of Italians, would give to the image and prestige of Parliament. In a newly reunited country and with immense political, social and economic issues to be addressed there was a need. In the human profile of Verdi there was, in the broadest sense, a political trait. He was initially a convinced Mazzinian; he fought for the unity and independence of Italy and against the Austrian occupation; he celebrated the heroism of the generations who made the Risorgimento. He did so with bright words, when he exalted the Five Days of Milan or when he wrote to Francesco Maria Piave that the only music appreciated by the Italians in 1848 should be that of the cannon. He did so with concrete acts, as when he anticipated the expenses for the purchase of rifles to arm the National Guard of Busseto. He did so above all with his music, with the works of the early years, from "Nabucco" in 1842 to "La Battle of Legnano" in 1849. His patriotism was expressed in an exemplary way in the choral pages, where the people are represented plastically all and is given full space to the love for the homeland and the ideals of freedom of an oppressed people, but not subjugated. Without exaggerating his role, it is fair to say that Verdi was a true patriot, animated by the love for Italy and the dream of Unity and freedom. And patriot, however, became him in the eyes of his vast audience. The legend or history of Viva Verdi has already been remembered, which was written on the walls of Italy: behind the admiration for the musician there was support for the independence cause, since Verdi was also the acronym of Vittorio Emanuele King of Italy. You mentioned, Mr President, Senator Antonio Fogazzaro's passionate speech on the occasion of the death of Verdi. Among other things he said: Verdi's name deserved above all others to symbolize in the heroic times of our Risorgimento, for a mystical meeting of voices, the sighed, invoked unity of the homeland (...). Verdi was a great unifier of ours, when, closed in the wave of his fiery music, elusive to the enemy - this is a concept, which seems extraordinary to me - the national idea ran freely from the Alps to the sea, (...) burning hearts. Politics was obviously not the priority for Greens. His life was music, opera, the Emilian countryside. The House of Deputies was only four years old. The ideal proximity to Mazzini did not last long. After the Unity of Italy he approached the moderate liberals and found himself at ease with Cavour, a personality to whom he felt a veneration equal to that for Alessandro Manzoni. Manzoni had also committed himself to the Unity of Italy. With him he shared the great values of the Risorgimento and to him, on the first anniversary of his death, Verdi dedicated his magnificent Requiem. Towards the end of his life he developed a critical attitude towards politics. He was disillusioned and disenchanted towards united Italy that appeared in his eyes not at the height of his dreams and hopes. He also expressed an adversity toward the new currents that crossed the music. He was troubled, he wrote, by the chaos of ideas in which trends and studies against our nature have overwhelmed the Italian musical art. He was, therefore, in conclusion, a man of strong personality and obvious contrasts, sharp as he was generous. And it was in politics as it was in music: a complex interweaving of tradition and innovation. He fought against the name of being a conservative musician, beaten by the Milanese chiseling and put in opposition to Richard Wagner, the other giant of 1813 born just 150 days before him and considered the representative of an authentic artistic and philosophical revolution. After all, it was Verdi who said: "Go back to ancient times and it will be progress." But in the second part of his artistic life he was capable of real innovations in the musical conception and compositional quality: from "Rigoletto" and from the popular trilogy, to the last work, that "Falstaff" taken from Shakespeare that is a bridge launched towards the modern work. Verdi has brought to the extreme limits the Italian melodrama of the nineteenth century, handing over to the young opera artists - Puccini, Mascagni, Leoncavallo and others - a tradition that has marked so deeply the culture of our people that it still finds its deep traces today, despite everything. With the Verdi musician and senator, today we value the close link that is sometimes created between culture, art and politics. Verdi's work was strongly catalysing the Risorgimento movements, it was the most popular form of artistic expression, communication and propaganda and widespread diffusion of that crucial period. And since we have and will always need, in every field of our social life, today's tribute to Verdi musician and parliamentary does not seem like a rhetorical exercise, but it is instead an opportunity to reaffirm the extreme need for culture, ideals and values to once again fill the politics and life of the institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u35	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I believe that your sensitivity does not fail to understand the umbilical cord that unites the senator for life Giuseppe Verdi with Master Abbado, senator for life. The words of my colleagues are important, but even more so would be the organization in this room of a concert with the work of Verdi directed by the greatest living master, whom the President of the Republic has rightly appointed senator for life. So, rather than the words, I think that the musical notes could be even more worthy of celebrating the bicentenary of the birth of Giuseppe Verdi. I would also like to remind my colleagues that he was not actually named Joseph, but Joseph Francois: he had two French names - I live near the house where he was born - as at that time, under Napoleonic rule in Italy, the names were written in French and not in Italian. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u36	Thank you for your suggestion. Of course, Master Abbado's health will have to allow us this initiative. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u39	Mr D'ALIA, Minister for Public Administration and Simplification. Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I would like to associate myself with the words you have spoken to commemorate the bicentenary of the birth of Giuseppe Verdi and to express appreciation for this initiative, not only to mention Verdi, a man of culture, musician and great composer of melodramas, but also intellectual builder of the National Unity and man of these institutions. (at 10.50 a.m.) (Follow D'ALIA, Minister for Public Administration and Simplification). I believe that this is the meaning of today's commemoration, which is also an opportunity to reflect and understand the importance and value of culture in our country as an instrument of social promotion. It is also important, especially today, to remember that the value of national unity, of the State and of our institutions is always and in any case the subject of a bet and is always in question: it depends on us, on what we know how to do, on how we cultivate the meaning of institutions and belonging to this community. The idea of remembering Giuseppe Verdi, from our point of view, means continuing to cultivate an idea of the nation and the state that guarantees the growth and development of our country. On behalf of the Government, therefore, I thank you very much. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u40	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1015.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u41	Mr President, before expressing my opinion on the amendments to Article 5, I have tabled a further rewording of amendment 8.22. I make a call for withdrawal or against Amendments 5,300 and 5.1. On amendments 5,1000/1, 5,1000/2, 5,1000/3, 5,1000/4 and 5,1000 (correct text) the opinion of the 5th Commission is missing; therefore they must be set aside. Similarly, amendments 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6 and 5.7, as linked to amendment 5,1000 (correct text) should be put aside. I call for the withdrawal of Amendments 5.10 and 5.14, otherwise I am against them. I give a favourable opinion on the agenda G5.100 if, after the words "the Government" are added, the following are added to assess the appropriateness of "the government." [[Brusio in the Chamber. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, you are right because there is an unbearable noise. If anyone wanted to stay on Saturdays and Sundays, we'd be on the right track.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u43	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, with regard to amendment 5.0.100 (correct text 2), of which withdrawal was announced yesterday, I would like to point out that the 5th standing Commission is re-evaluating the previous opinion. I therefore call for it to be set aside. Finally, I am against Amendment 5.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u44	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u47	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot on all the amendments tabled to Article 5 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u48	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u51	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 5,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u52	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 5.2 is impervious. Amendments 5,1000/1, 5,1000/2, 5,1000/3, 5,1000/4, 5,1000 (correct text), 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6 and 5.7 are laid down. Amendments 5.8 and 5.9 are unacceptable. Amendment 5.10 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 5.11 is impervious. Amendments 5.12 and 5.13 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.14 tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Senator Orellana, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G5.100 tabled by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government? Orellana (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G5.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendment 5.0.100 (correct text 2) is set aside. Amendment 5.0.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.0.2 tabled by Senator Bottici and Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u53	Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to the amendments 6.1 and 6.301, on which the 5th standing Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Personally, I express many doubts about the request to turn them into agendas that commit the Government to implementing its objectives, including, perhaps, a more appropriate formulation in the future to overcome the comments that have been made. However, I would like to highlight the content of this House. Amendment 6.1 was intended to remedy a dramatic contradiction to which we have all contributed in some way and to which we have been unarmed for more than a year. It is the core of staff who was part of the Supervisory Inspectorate on motorway concessions operating in ANAS that was to pass through the founding agency. ANAS, in fact, until last year, operated under a very singular regime, acting at the same time as a concession holder on behalf of the State, the main concessionaire of non-toll roads and motorways and also as a vigilant on the concessions, precisely, with that inspection core constituted by about 120 units. I leave out any consideration, because it has already been carried out extensively in its own premises and in other circumstances here, of the desirability of maintaining this regime and of the consequences it has contributed to determining. The point, Mr President, is that as a result of the lack of approval by the Monti Government of the statute of the founding agency, despite the fact that the approval process had been concluded by the competent committees of the Chamber and Senate, the agency itself (as provided for in the norm) has fallen and the functions, with relative staff, have been transferred to the Ministry; a Ministry that, paradoxically, of these people has not known what to do with it. They are there, parked for a year, under temporary transfer regime, after being fired in log with four days of notice from ANAS and hired temporarily by the Ministry of Infrastructure waiting for a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers governs the contractual framework. What is not easy, it seems, since the ministerial staff, and their contract, do not provide daily missions and constant transfers to go to the places of verification and inspection constituted by the highway network in concession to private, because - as is known - the ministerial staff is usually employed in offices for the handling of practices, circulars, directives, instructors and decrees. Meanwhile, all that personnel, improperly transformed from operational to employee, suffered a wage contraction of more than 30% on average for the reduction of all ancillary salary items. But the point - I repeat - is not that. The disturbing fact is that these officials do not work, are not operational and no one controls anyone anymore. Some people said that bad thinking is a sin, but in this case it doesn't take too much imagination to understand the implications, when the subjects that should be checked (already poorly controlled in the past) are the great highway dealers. Mr President, in this year, between one parliamentary term and another, personally and with other colleagues, we have produced inspection of this issue and we have called in every way for its response, which is still unanswered today. I would remind you that I had the opportunity to present this amendment on the recent bill Act of the Senate No. 974 and that it was also transformed into an agenda that committed the Government to this end. I don't know, I'm telling you honestly, how much you can expect before 120 people go back to doing what they were hired for, maybe even better than they did in the past. Mr President, an agenda leaves the time it finds and, as we sometimes say - helping to discredit ourselves and our function - does not in fact deny anyone. This intervention, then, does not want to be but a very heartfelt appeal because, beyond the formal imperfections that the amendment may contain, it is guilty that the Government continues to keep 120 people unused and has not taken on a more appropriate reformulation. I conclude this first part of the speech on Amendment 6.1, which cannot fail to point out to the Budget Committee, but above all to the Government, that the alleged lack of coverage is a legal artifice to defend itself against the unknown or the unwanted. In this sense, I would point out that the problems of covering the cost of staff, as ANAS who had it under its own responsibility knows, do not exist because the cost item is determined by the charges provided for in the conventions governing the relationship with the motorway concessions. The amendment, in this respect, proposed its correct allocation within the existing Authority for the supervision of public contracts. In short, I think we have missed an opportunity, which I hope will be healed as soon as possible. On the other hand, coming briefly to Amendment 6.301, which seemed to me to have also taken on board the appreciation of the Ministry of the Interior, evidently then surrendered to the evidence, it asked to be able to employ ANAS personnel for the functions provided for by law and governed by the contract also in the role of road police. One of those measures, Mr President, which I consider to be virtuous, in which everyone had to earn: the road police, who would have been devoid of functions to be more usefully employed than increasing workloads, the same ANAS staff who would have seen recognized its functions and skills acquired. More generally, it benefited the road safety system. Now, in this case too, the objection of the Budgetary Commission, which probably has some more reasonableness than the previous amendment, nevertheless decrees its improcability, being the source of financing placed to cover the greater burdens derived, as provided for by the discipline of the sector, from the proceeds of administrative sanctions, which constitute a source of income not certain and not predetermined. The bitter observation is that sometimes the norm when it suits us is interpreted, while at other times, when the profit escapes, instead it applies. Too bad, even in this case we missed the opportunity to do something good and useful. I shall conclude by asking the Government and the rapporteur to accept the amendments reworded at least as agendas, which we hope will be useful, this time, in future memory. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to say that all the amendments, first signed by Senators of the PD Group, have been rejected by the Budget Committee in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u55	Are the amendments relating to all articles or just this? Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). All articles, Mr President. We are preparing the letter, but we have had the results from the Commission at the moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u56	I call on you to withdraw Amendment No 6,300. Amendment 6.4 is still missing from the Commission's opinion. I therefore object to Amendment 6.7 and to Amendment 6.8.(correct text) Amendment 6.10 (text 2 corrected) still lacks the opinion of the Budget Commission. I am therefore in favour of the G6.1 agenda, the G6.201 agenda and the G6.100 agenda, provided that it is reworded with the words 'to consider whether it is appropriate'.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u57	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u60	BRUNO (PdL). Mr President, I would like to point out to the House that the Commission's amendments 6.4 and 6.10 (correct text 2) have in the meantime been boiled down by the General Accounting Office on 8 October 2013. The document is also in the hands of the Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u61	We are delighted, as the budget Commission will be delighted to see, that it must, in any case, express its views on the amendments in question. It is an aid to the Commission. That's good news, Senator Bruno. Let us move on to Amendment No 6,300, on which a call for withdrawal has been made. I'll ask Senator D'Alì if he intends to withdraw it. D'ALI' (PdL). I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 6.1 has been changed to agenda G6.1 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Amendments 6.2 (text 2), 6.3, 6.5 and 6.6 are unacceptable, while amendment 6.4 (text 2) is set aside, pending the receipt of the Commission's opinion. Amendment 6.301 has been changed to agenda G6.301 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u64	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u65	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Scibona and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on Amendment 6.7. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.8 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.8 (correct text) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 6.9 is not possible, while amendment 6.10 (text 2 corrected) is set aside pending the opinion of the 5th Commission. A proposal for a rewording has been put forward on the G6100 agenda. Senator Bocchino, are you welcome? BOCCHINO (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendment 6.0.1 is improbable, while amendment 6.0.300 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u66	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 7.5 which concerns those employers who have an employment relationship with prisoners and internees. At present, at the end of the employment relationship, employers are obliged to pay the so-called dismissal ticket. This is also the case in the present case, i.e. when the employment relationship was established on the basis of the detention condition: when that condition ceases, the employer, even if he is not guilty, because the detention period provided for by the sentence has ceased, is nevertheless obliged to pay the so-called dismissal ticket. Therefore, with this amendment, in the aforementioned cases, we are calling for it to be abolished. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u67	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u68	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u69	I call for the withdrawal of amendment 7,300, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of amendment 7.2 (text 2 corrected). I call for the withdrawal of Amendment 7.1, otherwise the opinion is against it, as is Amendment 7.3. I am also in favour of amendment 7.7 (correct text). Amendment 7,500 lacks the opinion of the 5th Commission. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G7,100, I am in favour, provided that the words "judge' are inserted in the operative part. I am opposed to the G7.101 agenda and I am in favour of the G7.102 agenda, provided that the words "consider" are included in the system. I am in favour of amendment 7.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u70	The opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur, but I would just like to point out that if we put aside amendment 7,500, pending the opinion of the 5th Commission, we must also set aside 7.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u71	Amendment 7.3 was withdrawn because it was incorporated into the Government's amendment. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u74	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to this article.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u75	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7,300 tabled by Senator D'Alì. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.2 (text 2 corrected). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.2 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Senator Lumia, on Amendment 7.1, a call for withdrawal was made: do you accept it? LUMIA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 7.3 has been withdrawn. Amendments 7.301, 7.4, 7.5 and 7.6 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.7 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 7.7 (correct text) by means of an electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 7,500 is set aside pending the opinion of the 5th Commission. Senator Mattesini, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G7100? MATTESINI (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. In view of the absence of the proposer, the agenda for G7.101 is to be postponed. Does Senator De Petris accept the rewording of the agenda as proposed by the rapporteur? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7 102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendment 7.0.1 is set aside because it is identical to another amendment that has already been put aside. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u76	Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to Amendment 8.1, although I do not yet know the final assessments of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u77	We're still on hold, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u78	Gasparri (PdL). The amendment concerns police officers. As far as turnover is concerned, the current rules do not allow the replacement of all retired people: the replacement currently covers only 20%, and will return to 100% in the future. Amendment 8.1 has already proposed replacing all those who retire in law enforcement since 2014. Of course, there is a problem of charges, which the amendment addresses by indicating a cover. I hope that the Budget Commission will be able to give a positive assessment, as well as the Government, in the knowledge that the Commission, the first, and the rapporteur, whom I thank for their attention on this issue, have expressed their support. On the other hand, I know that Minister D'Alia, who is not the Minister for Economic Affairs, is also looking forward to this issue. I repeat: it is a question of guaranteeing the level of staff of the police forces, which is most necessary especially at a time when we are talking about measures of clemency and whatever else, which should be combined with greater control of the territory. I therefore hope that the Budget Committee and the Government, even at a time of difficulties between measures and labour, will find the necessary resources, because we believe that amendment 8.1 is one of the important points to be put to our attention. That's exactly why I used some time to illustrate it. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u79	I would like to ask you to speak on Amendment 8.1 in order to give support.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u80	We are in the process of explaining the amendments, at which only the authors can speak. When we come to the vote on the amendments, each Senator will be able to intervene, otherwise we risk entering the vast sea of all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u81	Mr President, I rise to explain amendment 8.2. In Article 8, it is proposed to hire 1,000 firefighters to draw from two rankings, one from 2007 and one from 2008. That of 2007 is a ranking made for titles only, while that of 2008 is the result of a regular competition to which everyone was able to access, a competition with different tests, both technical and running and swimming, and so on. We ask that all the thousand in the 2008 competition be hired. I would point out that those who participated in the 2007 competition had the opportunity to participate in the 2008 competition and not vice versa. The 2007 competition was reserved exclusively for people who had already worked for a certain period of time in the Firefighters' Corps. Our proposal therefore seems appropriate in order to avoid problems such as recourse to the TAR and other, and because in public places you enter by competition and the official competition is that of 2008.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u82	Mr President, I will be very quick, because our amendment is of the same scope as that which Senator Gaetti has just described. With Amendment 8.5 we propose that, in order to cover the posts brought up in the qualification of firefighters, it should actually be drawn, and therefore priority should be given, without excluding the others, to those who have been declared winners and have participated in the contest to 814 posts for firefighters, compared also to the volunteer who does not have the same access because the only competition was carried out in 2008.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u83	Mr President, I am speaking with regard to the Commission's amendment 8.23 and 8.22, for which the rapporteur has announced a rewording. This amendment stems from the adoption of an amendment which we have tabled as the Lega Nord Group which seeks to protect and safeguard forms of guarantee for fire department personnel, including voluntary workers. I therefore draw the attention of the Assembly to this point: with regard to the costs for clinical-instrumental and laboratory investigations, for the police and police forces are borne by the administration, but not by the fire department. We propose that the forecast should also be extended to them in such a way as to ensure a form of equity. I would point out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has approved this amendment; a reformulation of common sense has been proposed, which also gives a sign of the possible coverage on which the Budget Commission will decide. Therefore, we call absolutely attention to this amendment as a guarantee of the staff of the Firefighters' Corps, even voluntary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u84	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u85	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u86	Mr President, Amendments 8,200, 8,25 (text 2 corrected), 8,26 (text corrected), 8,300a, 8.0,100 (text 2) and 8.0,6 (text 2 corrected) are withdrawn. I am against Amendment 8,300. The Commission's opinion 5a is missing on Amendment 8.1. I call for the withdrawal of amendments 8.2, 8.3, 8.5, 8.4, 8.6, 8.7 and 8.8. I am against Amendment 8.9. I call for the withdrawal of amendments 8.10, 8.11, 8.12 and 8.13. On Amendment 8,100 (text 2) I am in favour. I call for the withdrawal of amendments 8.14, 8.15, 8.16, 8.17 and 8.18. Amendment 8.22 (text 2) lacks the opinion of the 5th Commission (I will then deposit text 3 of amendment 8.22). The opinion is opposed to amendments 8.20, 8.21 and 8.302 given the Commission's opinion against Article 81 of the Constitution. I give a favourable opinion on the agenda G8.100 on the condition that the words "consider" should be included in the system. I am voting in favour of the G8.101 agenda. I give a favourable opinion on the agenda G8.102 provided that the words to assess the appropriateness of the item are inserted in the device. Amendment 8.0.900 lacks the Commission's opinion on the budget. I am in favour of amendment 8.0.4 (correct text) and amendment 8.0.300 is against the opinion of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u87	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u90	Mr Valentini (PD). Mr President, Minister, rapporteur and colleagues, I am very sorry that all the amendments concerning the National Firefighters Corps have been rejected. I would, then, make an emphasis in this House: this country is crumbling and falling apart, and we all say so. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We all say it: every day there is one. There are not only earthquakes: there is a state of calamity, there is a flood, there is a landslide, there is the mud that goes down, there is the Concordia, there are the refugees that must be collected by divers of the firemen under water, who are under organic. Only in Rome, out of three million inhabitants, the fire department lacks 400 units, and the amendment calling for only one thousand more units throughout Italy was rejected. So we have to understand why we have to understand what the priorities are. If the rescue is such, the citizen needs immediate intervention in case he is flooded in a small center. And who comes first in this case? The firefighter: there is no one else who arrives before, at that moment. So it is not possible to accept and accept only one agenda which only talks about the transparency of rankings. Minister, the amendments that had been tabled had been extrapolated from a bill presented by me, Senator Amati and other colleagues, with whom, for the first time in the last twenty years, we are trying to put order in the fire department. You know that the workforce is insufficient and the firemen are getting older and, because in the course of this profession you have to go up the ladder, even on the tenth floor, to save the lady who is up there, you have invented the discontinuous, or precarious, vigilants who work in precarious condition. These have physical and psychological fitness and are subjected to medical examinations, as if they had won a contest, but actually have a separate fund. Then, we had tried to put together, in agreement with the union organizations, the needs of the discontinuous guards with the needs of those who had won the last competition. In fact, a firefighter contest takes years, while the country immediately needs someone to intervene tomorrow, when, in that small northern or southern country, a house floods. Then I do not understand: I really do not understand, Mr President. I do not understand why this could not be applied. And there was no need for spending commitments either, because they took the funds of the discontinuous ones and, with those funds, they made further assumptions, the thousand hirings for a new competition of firemen. So I ask this House to think a lot, because the distance of this House from the real country and from what is going on outside is really too big. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u93	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, I would like to turn amendment 8.0.3 into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is therefore understood that amendment 8.0.3 has not been withdrawn. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G8.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u94	I am in favour of this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u95	The Government accepts the agenda G8.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u96	Amendments 8,300 and 8,301 have been withdrawn. As far as Amendment 8.1 is concerned, I would wait for the opinions of the Budget Commission and the rapporteur before dealing with it, because dealing with it now blindly seems out of place to me. Therefore, it is put aside. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u99	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of all the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u100	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Gaetti and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 8.2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.3, which is identical to Amendment 8.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, identical to amendment 8.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 8.4 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u103	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. I would ask you to put aside amendment 8.6, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u104	I therefore have the provision of amendment 8.6 and amendments 8.7 and 8.8. Amendments 8.9, 8.110, 8.11, 8.12 and 8.13 are withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,100 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8,100 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to amendment 8.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u107	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Mr President, I withdraw it and turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u108	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u109	The Government accepts the agenda G8.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u110	Having been accepted by the Government, the G8.14 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.15, which is identical to Amendments 8.16 and 817. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.15, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, identical to amendments 8.16, tabled by Senator D'Alì, and 8.17, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u113	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 818.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u114	Amendment 8.19 has also been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 8.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. D'ALI' (PdL). I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 8.21 is impervious. Amendment 8,200 is withdrawn, while I have the provision of amendment 8,22 (text 3), as there is no opinion of the 5th Commission. Amendment 8.23 is withdrawn, while amendment 8.24 is not available. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 8,302 is impervious. Amendments 8.25 (correct text 2), 8.26 (correct text) and 8300a are withdrawn. Senator Orrù, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G8.100? ORRU' (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G8.100 (text 2) and G8.101 will not be put to the vote. Do the presenters accept the proposal for rewording the agenda G8.102? Mr Valentini (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendment 8.0.900, which lacks the opinion of the 5th Commission, is set aside. Amendments 8.0.100 (text 2) and 8.0.2 are withdrawn, while amendment 8.0.1 is not available. Amendment 8.0.3 has been withdrawn and transformed into the agenda G8.0.3 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.0.4 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.0.4 (correct text) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 8.0.5 is improbable, while amendment 8.0.6 (correct text 2) is withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 8.0.300 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u115	Mr President, first of all I would like to understand what will happen to Article 9 and, in particular, to paragraph 2. I will therefore briefly explain the meaning of the amendments which I have tabled, and of course I would like to check what will happen with regard to paragraph 2. This paragraph establishes the possibility of hiring Italian or foreign staff to be included in the quota that is normally sent by the Ministry to Italian schools abroad and that, therefore, is subject to a whole series of checks and a hard selection in order to requirements and abilities to participate in the construction of the Italian curriculum. This subparagraph allows the recruitment of such staff through local contracts. The amendments tabled are intended first of all to remove this possibility, because we believe that this forecast should be included in a broader discourse of reform and evaluation of what, in words, everyone here, is regarded as a heritage but then, in fact, in fact - to remember what was said earlier on the firefighters - is systematically disregarded, especially in investment. A short while ago we also talked about the value of culture, but then, when it comes to setting priorities, culture and school inevitably go to the top. That is why Amendment 9.5 calls for the repeal of points (a), (c) and (d) of paragraph 2 of Article 9. In addition to the fact that this part of the paragraph is not repealed, we call on the House to address the relevant ministries, the MIUR and the MAEA, so that they assume the responsibility to place precise constraints and criteria for the possible recruitment of these personnel under local contract abroad. This is an urgent measure, but let us forget it; let us forget that we have been working for months on measures which are considered urgent, but which actually establish permanent variations. Therefore, in line with the urgency criterion, with the subsequent amendments to my first signature, we call for a time limit for this type of recruitment, so that this does not become a system and does not automatically switch to a system. Secondly, we call for the restriction on residence to be removed. We do not understand why the possibility of being hired with a local contract should be reserved only to people who are resident, when in Italy we have trained teachers, who are precarious but also have the experience and who could have this experience abroad without being resident. It seems to us that this aspect is more related to the preference of local management than to the opening up of a concrete opportunity to make an experience. We also ask that, at the limit, if this possibility of taking on the spot should be granted, the requirements of the teachers who will be recruited be established with certain criteria. For foreign staff, we ask that at least the presentation of a certification of the knowledge of the Italian language be included, because it seems really ridiculous that they go to teach subjects belonging to the Italian curriculum people who are unable to demonstrate, certifying it, a knowledge of the Italian language. We ask that their ratings be clearly and clearly verified: it seems absurd to us that it is not guaranteed that those who go to teach mathematics of an Italian curriculum do not have a qualification to teach mathematics in Italian schools. We ask that, at least, in sub-order to all this, all those teachings that involve the Italian language as a not only vehicular language, but also disciplinary: we refer to the teaching of Italian literature and language, to the teaching in the elementary school, to the teaching of Italian and history; in essence, we refer to all those competition classes in which the language is not only a vehicle, but is also the subject of discipline. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u116	Mr President, Amendment 9.15 aims to put an end to an operational impasse that affects so many precarious school hours still waiting for the start of special training courses. In particular, the amendment calls for a modification of the founding decree, so that in the course of the school years useful for the calculation of the service requirements is included also the year 2012-2013 just concluded and follows the commitment made yesterday by the Government with the relative acceptance of the agenda. I would like to point out that this measure is in line with what has already been highlighted by Directorial Decree No 58 of 25 July 2013 of the Ministry of Education. I now believe that, beyond the proclamations, a concrete commitment is needed to follow up what has already been highlighted and established through a fair recognition of the service provided, convinced that the sensitivity of Minister D'Alia will be strong on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u117	Mr President, if the Government maintains its view of amendment 9.0.7, which seeks to extend the possibility of teaching and administrative staff in the school abroad, I would ask at least that the G9.0.7 agenda be accepted, which calls, in the revision of the overall legislation, to take account of the possibility of such an extension.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u118	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u119	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u120	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 9,300, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion was in favour of amendments 9.2, 9.3, 9.4, from which the subsequent amendments, 9.5, 9.6, 9.8, 9.9, 9.10, 9.11, 9.12 and 9.13. I am in favour of amendment 9.14 (text 2). On Amendment 9.15 I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion was in favour of the G9300 and G9100 agendas. Amendment 9.0.1 must be put aside, in my view, pending the opinion of the 5th Commission. The Budget Commission must also re-examine Amendment 9.0.3 which should therefore be put aside. Amendment 9.0.7 was withdrawn and turned into the G9.0.7 agenda, on which I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u121	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur, with the request for provision, if possible, of the amendment of 9.15 for further consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u122	On Amendment 9,300 a call for withdrawal was made: does the presenter accept it? D'ALI' (PdL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The amendment is therefore withdrawn. We now come to the examination of amendment 9.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u125	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, Amendment 9.1 is withdrawn because it is included in 9.0.1, which is set aside pending the opinion of the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u126	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.2, which is identical to Amendments 9.3 and 9.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u129	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot on all the amendments tabled to Article 9 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u130	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senators Santangelo and Puglia, identical to amendments 9.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 9.4, tabled by Senator Puglisi and other Senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendments 9.5, 9.6, 9.8, 9.9, 9.10, 9.11, 9.12 and 9.13 are therefore excluded, while Amendment 9,100 is withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.14 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.14 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9.15 is set aside. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G9.300 and G9.100 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 9.0.1 and 9.0.3 (correct text) are provided for, while Amendment 9.0.4 is withdrawn. Amendment 9.0.7 has been changed to agenda G9.0.7 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Amendments 9.0.8, 9.0.300 and 9.0.301 are unacceptable. Before moving on to Article 10, I invite the Senator Secretary to read the further opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the amendments to the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u131	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the part of the text on which the opinion was suspended, gave a favourable opinion on Article 3 provided that, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 3.2500 on which the opinion was not precluded was accepted. Having examined the amendments to the draft law on the basis of Article 3 of the Constitution on amendments 3.2, 3.11, 3.34, 3.36 (text 2), 3.0.4, 3.101, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.9, 3.17, 3.20, 3.21, 3.30, 3.31, 3.33, 3.35, 3.37, 3.0.1, 3.0.5, 3.0.5, 3.0.6, 3.0.100, 3.301, 3.200, 3.10, 3.1000 and its sub-amendments, 3.0.300 and 3.0.301. The opinion is without prejudice to the remaining amendments to the same Article. With regard to the amendments referred to in Article 10, it gives an opinion against Amendments 10,2, 10,3, 10,34, 10,36 (text 2), 10,37, 10,28, 10,14, 10,13, 10,22, 10,16, 10,18 (text 2), 10,25, 10,26, 10,38, 10,39, 10.0.1, 10.0,2 and 10,301. The opinion is of simple opposition to proposals 10.9 (text. 2), 10.10, 10.11, 10.12 and 10.27. On amendment 10,950 the opinion is void and, in the event of its approval, the opinion of opposition pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution on paragraphs 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Article 10 of the text of the Decree-Law, expressed by the Commission on 8 October 2013. The opinion is also without prejudice to all remaining amendments to the same Article. With regard to the amendments to Article 11, the opinion is opposed, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to Amendments 11,1, 11.2, 11,3, 11,4, 11.5, 11,6, 11,7, 11,9, 11,12, 11,15, 11,16, 11,18, 11,19, 11,43, 11,44, 11,20, 11,24, 11,21, 11,25, 11,28, 11,29, 11,34, 11,38, 11,41, 11,47, 11,55, 11,56, 11,31, 11,32, 11, 33, 11, 11,37, 11,36, 11,45, 11,48, 11,49, 11,51, 11,52, 11,54, 11, 11,58, 11,39, 11,53, 11,57, 11,89, 11, 11,74, 11,85, 11,86, 11,87, 11,99, 11,101, 11,76, 11,77, 11, 11,79, 11, 11,80, 11,81, 11,81, 11,83,11,84,11,84, 11,84, 11,95, 11,95, 11,95, 11,301 and 11, 11,312 The opinion is of simple opposition to proposals 11.103 (text 2), 11.72 and 11.88. On proposals 11,98, 11,100 and 11,102 the opinion of null and void is conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the addition after the words: "outside" of the following: "using the financial and instrumental human resources available under existing legislation." The opinion does not preclude the remaining amendments to the same Article. With regard to the amendments to Article 12, the opinion is opposed, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to Amendments 12.0.3 and 12.0.1. The opinion is simply contrary to proposals 12.9, 12.10, 12.11 and 12.15 (text 3). The opinion does not preclude the remaining amendments to the same Article. The opinion is also suspended on Amendments 2,71 (text 2), 2,306, 4,48 (text 2), 4,76, 4,102, 4,78, 4,133, 5,1000 and their sub-amendments, 6.4 (text 2), 6.10 (text 2), 8.1, 9.0.1, 11.5500 and their sub-amendments, 3.0,500, 4,500 (text 3), 8,22 (text 3), 4,550, 7,500, 4.0,1000/100, 4.0,500, 10,900 (text 2), 2,800, 2.68 (text2), 3,900, 4.0,700, 4.0,900, 8.0,900, 1,302 (text 2), 4.0,650 and 4,301 (text 2),
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u132	Thank you, Senator Secretary. Of course, the text will be distributed so that opinions can be better evaluated. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u133	Mr President, we have tabled an amendment on Article 10, which is, of course, fundamental to us, which is deleted from the whole article. The other amendments are merely an attempt to reduce the damage. Article 10 is, also following the opinion of the Budget Commission, virtually halved, but the idea of setting up the Agency for Territorial Cohesion is still standing, alas. The Minister for Territorial Cohesion was offended when we defined this article and the idea of setting up the Agency as an operation entirely inspired by strengthened neocentralism. For the truth, we have also expressed a very negative opinion, which we maintain, because those who speak to you are certainly not, as is well known, a fan of federalism, but I believe that we are now coming to exactly opposite positions, therefore to a series of neo-centralist choices that are not declared, but that in fact are being carried out and this is the case of the Agency for Territorial Cohesion. We know perfectly well that there are serious problems at regional and territorial level for the use of European funds, and several times we have worked, even with a number of proposals, to overcome the issue, paying attention also to some issues present in this decree-law on public administration, such as the training of staff, therefore also the possibility for the regions and, at central level, also for the Ministries, to have absolutely qualified support and staff, especially for the purposes of the needs of European projects and therefore of the use of the Structural Funds. This agency, in my view, however, will not solve the problems we all know and the paragraphs deleted by the Budget Commission highlighted the fact that a central agency, a new wheelchair, is actually being created. I do not know how it will survive, given that all the paragraphs from 10 onwards have been cut off, but I think that it would be absolutely necessary, partly because a fairly detailed opinion has been given, but in essence contrary, by the State-Regions Conference and therefore the system of the Italian Regions, and because of the opinion of the 5th Commission, that the Government should remove this article and revise the idea of setting up the Agency. I would also like to say that this is not just an article - as the 5th Commission has pointed out - for some paragraphs not covered financially, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. The real question, Mr President, to which you are usually very careful, is that this is an absolutely unconstitutional article, because according to the provisions of the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, it is in open violation of Article 117 of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u134	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 10.1, first signed by Senator Volpi and signed by the whole of our Group. We have tabled a single amendment on Article 10, which deletes the whole article. First of all, I would like to point out to the House that if this rule, which contains measures to strengthen cohesion policies, were to be deleted and re-submitted in another measure by the Government, nothing would happen. It is not a rule of necessity and urgency. Senator De Petris, who preceded me, has already focused on the subject, pointing out that in fact this regulatory forecast, partly corrected by the intervention of the Budget Commission, which has dismissed all those paragraphs that went to strengthen and increase the organic units of the structure (behaving as many as 120 additional staff units, with very significant public financial burdens), as a whole intervenes in cohesion policies to strengthen measures that should include the strengthening of regional policy projects, invading the field of regional legislative competences heavily. Already in the State-Regions Conference the Regions had strongly opposed this article. I would point out that there will certainly be disputes and that this would be a further burden on the state's finances. It is a further responsibility of the Government at this stage to bring forward rules that will create litigation and generate additional costs. Therefore, we do not believe that the conditions of extraordinary necessity and urgency of this rule exist and that there is a clear violation of Article 117 as regards the division of powers. It is an absolutely centralist norm, which feeds and increases the central apparatus of the State, on which we are strongly opposed. We would like to draw the attention of this House to the future consequences of this forecast. There is nothing to prevent cohesion policies from being reviewed more calmly, in a more comprehensive and serious measure. It is not by setting up a new agency, which violates - I repeat - regional legislative competences, which solves the problem of how best European resources and funds should be used. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u135	Mr President, I would like to outline Amendments 10.2 and 10.3 of which I am the first signatory. Given that the Agency for Territorial Cohesion is an express indication of the Government, despite all the indications and doubts raised by colleagues De Petris and Bisinella, with the complete rewording of the article we have tried at least to reduce and make more coherent the request that came from the Government itself. In fact, the Minister wanted to centralise in a single agency all the coordination powers, in some cases also replacing the activities of some regions that are unable to spend really substantial amounts made available by the European Union. Therefore, we have thought, contrary to what is provided for in the article, that there is some competence in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, with a staff of 50, and another part in this institution, with 200 staff, to unify everything only in the Agency, which is the true objective of this article. Therefore, this is the request contained in the two amendments in question, with the difference as regards the possibility of employing an additional 120 people, which Amendment 10.2 does not contain at all while in 10.3 we still leave this possibility. One important point I make is that the additional burdens, which the article provides for in EUR 1.450 million, are reduced because, not having to consider the 50 people of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, you would save EUR 1.100 million. For the remaining €350 000, the hypothesis included in the amendments is to go and find them, not already as provided for in Article 10, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of University and Scientific Research, but by the Ministry of Economics and Finance. This is because, of course, many times we spend words in favour of university and research and it seems to us an obvious request not to go to burden on the already limited budgets of these Ministries, the MAE and the MIUR.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u136	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 10,301, since I have not yet quite understood what the 5th Commission's opinion on it has been.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u137	It is impervious, Senator, having been given a negative opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u138	BENCINI (M5S). In any case, the amendment aims to introduce the possibility, within the framework of the institution of the Agency for Territorial Cohesion (whose usefulness in our opinion remains) to make use of at least ENIT, the National Agency for Tourism, and the companies controlled by it, for its technical assistance activities and for actions aimed at the management of programmes and resources aimed at promoting both cultural goods and tourism. This rule is aimed at limiting the possibility that the already non-useful agency can then also spend additional funds to be assisted in its functions by companies that may be private, which will carry out functions for which, within public companies such as those mentioned, there already exist professionalism able to carry out the work in question, with consequent and significant savings. At least we of the 5 Star Movement would like us to supply ourselves with those forces that we already have and that we used them to the maximum to obtain probably also a better quality of the work carried out by these subjects, instead of always endorsing other agencies and constituting new ones, with consequent new expenses, that all go to the head of the public administration, creating an increasingly heavy situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u139	Mr President, with regard to the amendments I have tabled to Article 10, I would like to point out that we had already expressed doubts about the creation of the Territorial Cohesion Agency in the general debate and we had concluded that we wanted to trust the choice made by the Government, in whose intentions the Agency could have been that instrument, that shock therapy necessary not to lose the Community funds and to accelerate the spending capacity of both the central administration and our regions with regard to the Community funds themselves. At the time we did not have the opinion of the Budget Commission at our disposal; today, however, we are discussing these elements in hand and we know that, with respect to the overall project proposed by the Ministry for Territorial Cohesion, the conversion of the Decree-Law was to give us these results. I'd beg the government to enlighten us on this... (Brusio). President, Senator Barani's conversation prevents me from continuing my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, Senator Mauro is asking for your attention. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Minister, today we can also examine the Cohesion Agency in the light of the opinion of the Budget Commission. It comes out absolutely mutilated with respect to the initial forecasts of the Government. If we were proposed an overall plan to solve these problems, does the government not consider today to review the positions represented in the Chamber? Does the Government not believe that such a mutilation could further undermine the spending capacity of Community funds? Parliament can present itself to the country with a rule - why then, at the end of the fair, do we approve the laws and therefore respond to the citizens of what we do - which can even damage the already slow process of using EU funds? I would like to know the Government's opinion on this before voting on the amendments and the whole text, because it is objectively very embarrassing to face the debate without a clear government position.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u140	Mr President, I would like to explain the agenda G10.101 which commits the Government to work to ensure that the Agency for Territorial Cohesion makes use, in the performance of its functions, of the more than one hundred entities responsible for territorial pacts and area contracts on national territory. These instruments are the result of the negotiated programming season: a season that certainly has lights and shadows but which, among the lights, includes the constitution of the instruments participated by the local actors of the development (the public administrations, the trade associations and the local banks), that continue to carry out actions of stimulation of the local development, realizing also infrastructures functional to the productive settlements, utilizing relatively few public resources and instead causing, with a multiplier effect, substantial private investments. I believe that it is useful for the Agency to use this experience and these tools, almost as terminals on the ground.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u141	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I would like to point out to the Groups that some of them are close to running out of time. I would therefore urge them to self-contingent themselves. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u142	On Amendments 10,300, 10.1, 10,1700 and 10,250, I voted against. On Amendments 10.2 and 10.3 I am opposed to the 5th Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution. I call for the withdrawal of amendments 10, 10, 6, 10, 8 and 10, 200, otherwise I am against them. Since I have tabled a new text of amendment 10.9 (correct text 2), which awaits the opinion of Commission 5a, I would ask for its provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u143	We therefore also reject Amendments 10, 10, 11 and 10.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u144	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. I am in favour of amendment 10.13 (text 2). On Amendment 10.14 there is an opinion against the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of amendment 10.15 (text 2). I call for the withdrawal of Amendment 10.19, otherwise I am against it. I am in favour of amendment 10.17 (text 2). On Amendment 10,301 there is an opinion against the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of Amendment 10.20, and I would ask you to withdraw Amendment 10.302 otherwise. I am therefore in favour of amendment 10.21 (text 2 corrected), and I would ask you to withdraw amendment 10.303 otherwise. Amendment 10.22 is withdrawn. Amendment 10,900 (text 2) lacks the opinion of the 5th Commission. On Amendments 10.23, 10.24, 10.25 and 10.26, I am against this. Since the first paragraph of amendment 10,27 would be absorbed by the possible adoption of amendment 10,9 (correct text 2), which was previously set aside, I would ask for its provision. On Amendment 10.28 I am against, given the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of amendment 10,950, identical to amendments 10.29, 10.30 and 10,304, as the 5th Commission considers this necessary. Amendments 10.31 and 10.32 would be absorbed as a result of the possible adoption of the previous amendments. I am against Amendments 10,33, 10,34 (as opposed to the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution) and 10,35. Amendment 10.36 (text 2 corrected) is withdrawn. On Amendments 10.37, 10.38 and 10.39 I am opposed to this, given the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I give a favourable opinion on agendas G10.100 and G10.101, provided that the device is reworded by including the words "to assess the appropriateness of "after the words": "the Government" is committed. With regard to the additional amendments, on Amendments 10.0.1 and 10.0.2 there is the opposite opinion of the Budget Commission, Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u145	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u146	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,300, which is identical to Amendments 10.1, 10.1700 and 10.250. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10,300 tabled by Senator D'Alì, identical to amendments 10.1, tabled by Senator Volpi and other Senators, 10,1700, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 10,250, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other Senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 10.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Orellana (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Orellana, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of amendment 10.2, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators, up to the words "in" referred to in the following paragraphs. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. The remainder of amendment 10.2 and amendment 10.3. are therefore excluded. On Amendment 10.4 there is an invitation to withdraw: Senator Bernini, do you accept this? BERNINI (PdL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Perrone, on Amendment 10.6 there is an invitation to withdraw: do you accept it? PERRONE (PdL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bernini, on Amendment 10.8 there is an invitation to withdraw: do you accept this? BERNINI (PdL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio, on Amendment 10,200, there is an invitation to withdraw: do you accept it? DI BIAGIO (SPI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 10.9 (text 3), 10.10, 10.11 and 10.12 are provided for. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 10.14 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.13 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.13 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.15 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.15 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendments 10.16 and 10.18 (text 2) have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.19 tabled by Senator Tarquinio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.17 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.17 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 10,301 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.20 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Senator Lanzillotta, on Amendment 10,302 is there an invitation to withdraw, do you accept it? LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.21 (text 2 corrected). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.21 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,303. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.303, tabled by Senator Bocchino. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u149	SANTANGELO (M5S). There is yet another Member who votes for an absent Member. I would ask you, Mr President, to take the appropriate measures, otherwise I will have to suspend the vote because I do not accept it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u150	No names were given: so the first one who sings made the egg! So let's forget it. [[Laughter and applause from the M5S Group]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10,900 (text 2) lacks the opinion of the Budget Commission, so it is put aside. Amendment 10.22 is withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.23 tabled by Senator Bottici and Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.24. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.24 tabled by Senator Bottici and Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 10.25, 10.26 and 10.28 are impervious. Amendment 10.27 is set aside. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,950, which is identical to Amendments 10,29, 10,30 and 10,304. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10,950, tabled by the Government, identical to Amendments 10,29, tabled by Senator Perrone, 10,30, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators, and 10,304, tabled by Senator Lanzillotta and Senator Ichino. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendments 10.31, 10.32, 10.33, 10.34, 10.35, 10.37, 10.38 and 10.39 are therefore excluded. Amendment 10.36 (text 2 corrected) has been withdrawn. Senator Mussini, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G10.100? MUSSINI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scalia, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G10.101? SCALIA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G10.100 (text 2) and G10.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 10.0.1 and 10.0.2 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u151	Mr President, I would like to explain amendments 11.4 SISTRI is not a new system: it was born in 2007 and has undergone nine legislative and ministerial measures; it was immediately obsolete, it proved to be malfunctioning and even the 2011 click day failed. All companies that have successfully cooperated in the development of SISTRI have demonstrated its absolute inefficiency. Nobody wants it. Moreover, we are about to convert the decree after 1 October, the date from which the new SISTRI entered into operation. The first signs coming from the territory are certainly not favorable: we are talking about time losses, hours of overtime to define the charges with the SISTRI (we ask who pays), of delays in the services (therefore of penalties that are taking) and even of impossibility to exercise the system according to the new rules (so there are companies that are obliged to violate it). The SISTRI system in these early days is proving to overload businesses and thus to be a failure. As a North League, we have tabled a number of amendments. The first, 11.4 which wants to overcome the system, was also presented by a large part of the political forces, primarily PD and PdL. A second amendment, 11.8 wants to introduce an experimental period, while other groups of amendments call for extensions, derogations or exclusions. But this is all written down. It is necessary to honour a contract with Selex (this relationship prevails), a contract that was born badly for the responsibility of the State, and for which companies must absolutely pay. The conclusion is that, in order to honour a contract that is not right, we will soon have to commemorate other companies that will die, also because of the SISTRI. I would like to point out that we are going to ask for the vote on all the amendments which have the 'Bill 81' and that we intend to withdraw Amendment 11,46. [[Applause from the LNP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u152	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 11:27. This system should have started for three years and it hasn't started. In the Commission and then in the amendments, it was obvious that no one likes this system and from the hearings it has been seen that neither do those who have to implement it like it. Surely it is a system that started badly, that has created confusion or that perhaps even wanted to create it. It's expensive and complicated. I, like most senators in this House, share the need for it to be simplified and made as economical as possible. However, a fact that differentiates my position from that of others is that I believe that over time this traceability system, which is absolutely necessary and required by Europe, must be gradually made simple, transparent and inexpensive for businesses and should be extended to all waste carriers. I therefore disagree with the position of colleagues who want to make this system more specific, not least because the overlapping of different systems can only cause confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u153	Mr President, the fact that you have the amendments presented before we know the direction of the government forces us to make a few turns. However, if there were to be an opinion against Amendment No 11.65 by the representative of the Government and the rapporteur, as I believe, I would ask that the G12.101 agenda, which replaces it in its content, be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u154	This procedure is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure; it is not my will!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u155	Mr President, be patient because I am a little lost: I have been a step backwards in Amendment 10,301.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u156	We are examining the amendments to Article 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u157	BENCINI (M5S). I know, but since I may not be well aware of the timing or perhaps going on as trains, I would like to point out that Amendment 10,301 was not put to the vote while, despite the improcability of its character, I would have liked to insist on its vote. I can never speak at the right time, because you are obviously very good, you go on like a train, you know the Rules a lot better than I do, so I was overtaken and I could not get in time to tell you that I wanted to insist on the vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u158	Senator Bencini, thank you, but today, if it's okay, we're moving forward like commuters, not as much as trains. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u159	Mr President, I am against Amendment No 11,300. I would remind you that on Amendments 11, 1, 11.2, 11, 3, 11, 4, 11.5 and 11.6 all of them are essentially identical, as well as on Amendments 11,8 and 11,9, the 5th Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution was rejected. I also object to Amendment 11.10. Instead, I am in favour of Amendments 11.11 (text 2)/100, already Amendment 11.22 (text 2) and 11.11 (text 2). Amendments 11.12, 11.13, 11.15 (which were withdrawn in any case), 11.16, 11.17, 11.18, 11.19, 11.20, 11.21, 11.23, 11.24, 11.25 (which was withdrawn) and 11.26 would be precluded by the vote on amendment 11.11 (text 2). I am against Amendments 11,27 and 11,30, while Amendments 11,28, 11,32, 11,33, 11,34, 11,36, 11,38, 11,39, 11,41, 11,44, 11,45, 11,47, 11,48 and 11,49 have been rejected by the 5th Commission, former Article 81 of the Constitution. The opinion is opposed to amendment 11.46. On Amendment No 11.50 I am calling for a withdrawal, otherwise my opinion is against it, while I am in favour of Amendment No 11,103 (text 2). I would also point out that the 5th Commission, under Article 81 of the Constitution, has expressed its opposition to Amendments 11.51, 11.52, 11.53, 11.54, 11.56, 11.57, 11.58 and 11.64. I am against Amendments 11,59, 11,60, 11,61, 11,62, 11.63, 11.65, 11.66, 11.67 and 11.68 and I am in favour of Amendment 11,500. The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 11,69, 11,70, 11,71, 11,72 and 11,73, while on Amendments 11,74, 11,76, 11,77, 11,78, 11,79, 11,81, 11,83, 11,84, 11,85, 11,86 and 11,87 I would like to point out that the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, has delivered an opinion against them. I am opposed to amendment 11.88, while amendments 11.5500/1, 11.5500/100, 11.5500/2, 11.5500/3, 11.5500/4, 11.5500/5, 11.5500/6, 11.5500/10, 11.5500/7, 11.5500/11, 11.5500/8, 11.5500/12, 11.5500/9, 11.5500/13 and 11.5500 should be provided for pending the opinion of the 5th Commission. I would remind you that the 5th Commission gave an opinion against Amendments Nos 11,89 and 11,95 under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of Amendment No 11.91 and against Amendments Nos 11,93 and 11,94. With regard to Amendment No 11.98 (correct text), I propose to add, after the words: "outside" and "outside" the words: "making use of the human, financial and instrumental resources available to existing legislation." Finally, my opinion is against Amendments Nos 11,99 and 11,101, and Amendment No 11,301 is unacceptable. In addition, I propose amendment 11,1000, of which I read: 'In paragraph 10, add at the end the following period: "From the implementation of this subparagraph no new or increased burden on public finance shall arise, the safeguard clause requested by the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u160	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u163	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to remind the rapporteur that Amendment 11,57, which was opposed by the 5th Commission, concerns the issue of farmers, and in the debate in the Commission it was said that in fact it was included both in an amendment by Senator Zeller and in the amendment 11.5500 formulated by the Commission. The Commission's opinion against the budget therefore perhaps had to affect the first part of the amendment, but the rest had to be absorbed in the amendment tabled by the Commission or in any case set aside. That's for fair.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u166	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, I welcome Senator De Petris' remarks regarding the second part of Amendment 11.57.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u167	I have the provision of Amendment 11.57 and therefore Amendment 11.77, which is identical.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u170	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, on all the amendments tabled to Article 11 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u171	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11,300. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,300 tabled by Senator D'Alì. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We move on to Amendment 11.1 which is essentially identical to Amendments 11.2, 11.3, 11.4, 11.5 and 11.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u174	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is an amendment tabled by all the groups or by members of all the groups. We all know that it is suggested by businesses and by those who do work on the territory, entrepreneurs, artisans and so on. So I ask myself: do you propose the amendments solely to bear witness to your presence in Parliament or do you intend to have them voted on? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Because if it is true that there is a reference to Article 81 of the Constitution, in the speech of yesterday's President of the Budget Commission I have also grasped the desire to challenge certain constraints. We have tabled and will maintain Amendment No 11.4 and I call on colleagues from the other groups, who have signed identical proposals, to vote in favour, not least because it seems absolutely positive to us to give a signal and to meet companies. If not, do not table any amendments so that you can go home and say: "look at the fact that I have tabled an amendment to you." Let's make everyone laugh and make both the Senate laugh and the commitment we put into this work! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot]] (Art. 102-a Reg.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u175	I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 11.2 and 11.3, both tabled by Senators Galimberti and Bocca, 11.4 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other Senators, 11.5 tabled by Senator Ceroni, and 11.6 tabled by Senator Zeller and other Senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.7 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 11.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u176	We are asking for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u177	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.8, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.9 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.10 tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.11 (text 2)/100, already adopted. 11.22 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.11 (text 2)/100, already adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 11.22 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.11 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.11 (text 2) tabled by the Commission in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendments 11.12, 11.13, 11.16, 11.17, 11.18, 11.19, 11.20, 11.21, 11.23, 11.2 and 11.26 are therefore not included. Amendments 11.15 and 11.25 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11:27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.27, tabled by Senator Nugnes and Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 11.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VOLPI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Volpi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.28 tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.29 is withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.30 tabled by Senator Ceroni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.31 is withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.32 is impervious. Amendment 11.33 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G11.33, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u178	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u179	The Government accepts the agenda G11.33.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u180	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.33 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 11,34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 11,34 tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.36 is impervious. Amendment 11.37 is withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 11.38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.38 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.39 is impervious. Let us move on to Amendment 11.41, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.41 tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 11:43, 11:44 and 11:45 are impervious. Amendment 11:46 is withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment No 11.47, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.47 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 11.48 and 11.49 are impervious. Amendment 11.50 is withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,103 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,103 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 11.51, 11.52, 11.53 and 11.54 are impervious. Amendment 11.55 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 11.56, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.56 tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.57 is set aside. Let us move on to Amendment 11.58, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11.58 tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.59. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.59 tabled by Senator Fucksia and Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.60. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.60 tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.61. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.61 tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,62. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11,62 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.63. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11.63 tabled by Senators Fucksia and Blundo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 11.64, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11.64 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.65. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.65 tabled by Senator Panizza and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.66. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11.66 tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.67. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.67 tabled by Senators Fucksia and Blundo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.68. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11.68 tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u183	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the need for the senate electrician to arrive quickly in this Chamber, because I do not know if it is a ghost that on the left of Senator Razzi took part in all the votes that have taken place so far without any senator being present. If that's possible, I'd like a Senator Secretary to verify this incredible mechanism. (Senator Cotti heads towards the indicated station.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u184	Nobody's entitled to do that. I ask the assistant to pick up the card and take it to the presidency. This isn't about you, Senator. There are assistants for this. You have to pass a contest. [[Protests from the benches of the M5S Group. Senator Cotti extracts a sheet of rolled paper from the indicated station.]] I have a seizure of the body of the crime. From the banks of the M5S Group. Shame! Shame! Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you keep going, I'll get you out of the Chamber. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11,500. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,500 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.69. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11,69 tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.70. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 11.70 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.71. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 11.71 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.72. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.72 tabled by Senator Nugnes and Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.73. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11,73 tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 11.74 and 11.78 are impervious. Amendments 11.76 and 11.77 have been made. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11,1000. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,1000 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 11,79 and 11,81 are impervious. Amendment 11.80 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment No 11.83, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.83 tabled by Senator Fucksia and Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. Let us turn to Amendment No 11.84, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.84 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 11.85, 11.86 and 11.87 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.88.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u187	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I know that Amendment No 11,88 has been rejected, but I would like to remind you that the amendment proposes that operators should use active repentance in the event of problems of good faith. I therefore call on the senators to vote in favour of this amendment. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 11.88 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. For the absence of the opinion of the 5th Commission, I have the provision of amendments 11.5500/1 to 11.5500. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.89 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.91. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.91 tabled by Senator Nugnes and Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.93. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,93 tabled by Senator Nugnes and Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.94. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 11.94 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.95 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.98 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 11.98 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1015 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.99 is impervious. Let us turn to Amendment 11,101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,101 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u190	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, with regard to this widespread phenomenon of multiple hands voting for others, our Group would like to point out that it is not funny and even if it is not funny, because it is still illegal. We would therefore like to ask not only that immediate measures be taken, but also that information be provided about the measures taken in relation to all the incidents already reported, which have already been reported and which have not yet been reported. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] (at 13.09 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u191	The Presidency will take note of this and send the report to those who have competence in this regard. Amendment 11,301 is unlikely, and amendment 11,302 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u192	Madam President, this is the umpteenth time that we have spoken on the question of Ilva, because in addition to the specific decree - of which, as you will recall, nothing could be changed, so we did not even consider a number of important amendments - we then found ourselves at every decree passing through the House and the Senate the re-introduction of rules, through amendments approved by the Assembly, or, as in this case, a whole article of the decree dedicated to Ilva. It should be noted that we are not talking about the matter which came after the adoption of this decree, namely the seizure and blackmail of the Rivas, on which the Commission has also discussed an amendment. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I apologize, but the sitting is not over. I ask the senators in this House to pay attention. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We are talking about the specifically environmental issue of Taranto's Ilva. We have tabled a number of amendments on this subject, but we have not yet received a satisfactory response, not even from the Environment Minister who has been heard in the 13th Commission. Moreover, I would like to remind my colleagues that the concerns which led us to reiterate the presentation of these amendments, first of all on the matter of landfills, are strictly environmental in nature, because we are afraid that the decree will in fact lead to a sort of sanatoria, without guaranteeing a characterization of the areas that are already used in the state as landfills by Ilva for a number of years, since we have not had any reassurance on a number of very critical points. I would also like to point out that a European infringement procedure has been notified for a few days. We would not want us to insisting on a number of rules, such as that contained in this decree, to be prepared for a second infringement procedure. In particular, with amendment 12.2 we call for the replacement of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the article, providing that the procedures for the construction and management of landfills are all considered within the integrated environmental authorisation. The A.I.A 3 procedure is now under way and we believe that all procedures concerning landfills must be included in the integrated environmental authorisation. We are constantly opposed to the fact that we have to do things quickly, and this is even more worrying. It is argued that a number of environmental improvements and operations cannot be carried out, because we do not know where to dispose of the materials, and that it is therefore necessary to make landfills quickly. We therefore think that the A.I.A procedure is the most guaranteed not only in environmental terms, but also from the point of view of time and above all means that, in the process of reviewing the integrated environmental authorisation, so-called A.I.A. 3, the procedures for the construction and management of landfills are strictly referred to the current regulations and, above all, to European regulations. Therefore, we are not talking about who knows what, as has often been done in terms of imagination, but we are asking first of all to respect European regulations and that all the necessary guarantees be given to have promptly everything that is already foreseen within the A.I.A, including characterisation plans and Bonifices. There are also a number of other amendments which seek to ensure that local authorities, first and foremost the Region, are fully involved in all procedures.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u195	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would like to denounce a very serious fact which took place yesterday in the Justice Commission, where, with an amendment tabled and voted by the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party, the crime of illegal immigration has been erased. I think this is a shame, and you have to answer for what you've done. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group raise some signs in writing: "No clandestine security yes? "No clandestine pensions yes? "Yes, it is a crime of illegal immigration." "Clandestines at home." "Yes, security no clandestine").
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u196	No, it's not okay! Please withdraw the signs. I ask the assistants to intervene. This intervention is not on the order of business. Bisinella (LN-Aut). Shame! BITONCI (LN-Aut). Shame! ( [[Lively protests from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Ferrara).]] Senator Bitonci, I would like you as the Parent Company to cooperate with the Presidency and allow us to move forward with the examination of the amendments, please. (The Senator-Council hinders the passage of parliamentary assistants. Some Senators of the LN-Aut Group raise signs of similar content from government benches). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On the benches of the government it is not tolerable. PADUA (PD). Shame! It's unbearable! CARDINALI (PD). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, the sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 1.16 p.m. and resumed at 10.18 p.m.) Let's resume our work. Mr Manconi (PD). Legist scafist! [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group. There are protests from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let's finish our work here. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-122.ana.u197	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.18 p.m.
