ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 11 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u7	IURLARO (PdL). Mr President, I wanted to point out that although I was here, I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u8	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u9	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u10	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u13	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor first of all to announce that the Senators of the Democratic Party will present today a formal act of solidarity with Minister Cécile Kyenge. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , Misto-SEL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE), M5S, GAL and Pdl). Mr President, we consider very serious the expressions that Senator Roberto Calderoli, who I am sorry not to see in the Chamber now that he is Vice President of the Senate, addressed to the Minister, and we believe that the same senator was wrong to define those words in an interview as an "unhappy joke," because a racist insult is something quite different from an unhappy joke. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , Misto-SEL, SCPI and M5S and Senator Gambaro). Similarly, Senator Calderoli cannot claim to be Vice President when he is in the Senate and no longer in all the other forums where he speaks and makes politics. When a Vice President of the Senate seriously insults a Minister of the Republic, there are clear reasons to ask him to resign. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , Misto-SEL and SCPI and Senators Bocchino and Gambaro). And that's what the Senators of the Democratic Party are asking him for. In the past legislature, President, under the Rules of the Senate, Vice President Rosi Mauro remained in his place, despite the request for resignation had been addressed to her by most of the Groups and also by his own party. Senator Calderoli must reflect on how much the lack of a regulatory forecast and of a sanction of distrust towards the Vice Presidents loads them with greater responsibilities and obliges them to keep behavior appropriate to their office. Roberto Calderoli's statement to Minister Kyenge cannot be regarded as a political polemic: it does not contain an institutional assessment and not even a judgment on the merits of the action of a Minister, whose policy on ius alone we fully agree and we ask for it to become state law as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL and SCpI groups and the senatorce Gambaro.]] That sentence is just a racist insult, whose vulgarity is much more serious because it is directed against a woman. And in no other country in Europe could a Vice President of the Senate use similar expressions by addressing a minister of his country, or a citizen, without being sanctioned, in some countries, even criminally. Senators, these episodes fuel the growing detachment towards politics. Nor is the North League surprised at the progressive loss of electoral support. Italians can no longer insult, scream, vulgarity, pitfalls and destabilizing maneuvers. A few days ago, I myself in this House appreciated Senator Calderoli for the ability with which he had exercised his presidency. And I remember to stress the absence of any negative political prejudice against him. The strong censorship of the Senators of the Democratic Party for the greed with which it addressed Minister Kyenge has no political origin whatsoever, but we want, Mr President, that politics be able to regain credibility and be able to do so by acting with honour. For these reasons, we ask Senator Calderoli to demonstrate that, in addition to the ability of the House, he also has the necessary sense of the institutions, and we ask him to resign as Vice President. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Senator Bocchino groups.]] The Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies are the places of democracy, but the prestige of the Senate does not lie in the beauty of the walls of Palazzo Madama and the velvets on which we sit in this Chamber: the prestige of the Senate is determined by us senators, by our behaviour inside and outside the Chamber. Each of us, starting with those who hold the post of Vice President of the Senate, must feel responsibility for the defence of the institution of which it is a member. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL, SCPI and M5S groups and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, first of all, on my behalf and on behalf of all the Senators and Senators of the Mixed Group, I would like to express my full solidarity with Minister Kyenge. Among other things, since she became Minister, I would like to remind you here that it has been done and is now the subject of threats and heavy and racist comments on social networks. This is a very strong wound for our country and for the credibility of the institutions. For this reason, we call for Senator Calderoli to recover a minimum sense of the institutions and resign from the office of Vice President of the Senate. His words, in fact, Mr President and colleagues, were not a joke - Senator Zanda said well - but a hateful and ignoble racist offense, the most classic example of racial prejudice. This in a country, I repeat, in which with alarm we signal every day a resumption of xenophobic campaigns (I remember, among other things, that about 2,000 anti-Semitic sites have been recorded) and sexist campaigns. I would like to stress that this ignoble insult to the Minister has an emphasis not only on racism, but also on sexistism, which, among other things, continues to manifest itself since the beginning of the legislature. So this House, like all the democratic sensibilities of this country, cannot help but react. I would also like to remind you that Senator Calderoli's offense is on all the pages of foreign newspapers, and this is a serious damage to the image of our country. In Europe, as you know, there is a sort of safeguard clause in the Community institutions and an exception clause in relation to those who carry out campaigns or assume attitudes or utter racist words of order, because this is considered intolerable within the institutions. The strong idea on which the European Union was born was precisely to ban all prejudice, campaign or racist and xenophobic attitudes. Sorry Senator Calderoli isn't here today. The fact is that not only when you are Vice Presidents or you hold the highest positions in our Parliament, but also only and simply when you are senators, you are parliamentarians, you represent the institutions, when you speak you have to have the sense of the institutions at all times. I would not like these offenses to be used to provide easy support for a force that has recently to reinvigorate its well-known, somewhat xenophobic campaigns in recent years. We know perfectly well that this House does not have the tools to formalize motions of distrust, because we are in a completely different hypothesis of Regulation, but this Assembly can only - I hope unanimously - ask Senator Calderoli, for the good of our country and for the respect of the institutions, to take a step back: not only to apologize to the Minister, but to resign immediately. Among other things, your offense is serious - I mean frankly - not only because it was addressed to an Italian Minister of State, because it would have been just as serious if it had been addressed to any Italian citizen. The Minister is in fact an Italian citizen. The other serious element that we cannot accept is that we do not want to recognize his being fully Italian citizen and therefore his full right to be appointed Minister in the Government of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and SCPI Groups and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u19	Olivero (SPI). Mr President, the Group of Citizens' Choices for Italy also expresses its firm solidarity with Minister Cécile Kyenge for the words of unusual gravity that have been spoken by the Vice President of this House, Senator Calderoli, in recent days. Words that represent genuine racist insults, which - let us not forget - are a crime under a law passed by this same House in 2003. Words that are heavy and that create serious discomfort in all of us representatives of the Italian people. Senator Calderoli's apologies do not apply; there is no need for interviews that tend to rob his claims to boutade, nor does it make sense to pretend to sprinkle their heads to correct statements that nowhere in Europe would be accepted. Civic Choice for Italy, faced with words that offend the institutions and seriously contrast with the affirmation of the inalienable rights of each person, asks Senator Calderoli to resign immediately from the high office of Vice President of the Senate of the Republic. In addition, Mr President, I would like to address you: if Senator Calderoli does not provide for this necessary act, the Civic Choice Group asks you to take every decision so that he no longer presides over this House and, above all, no more tasks are assigned to the official representation of the Senate of the Republic to a person who has made statements that seriously conflict with constitutional principles. Civic Choice believes that it is important to go at this moment to reaffirm these things with the necessary force, because our country needs to feel united around fundamental values and the issue that is at stake today is a fundamental and decisive element. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u22	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 May, the Senator of the 5 Star Movement, Lorenzo Battista, spoke in this Chamber to mention some more than unpleasant words that a member of the Northern League of Prato had always addressed to Minister Kyenge. [[Senator Stucchi's comments.]] In that case too we insisted on the need to make a qualitative leap because any very unhappy and unpleasant expression that recalls the offense of racism arises from ignorance, lightness and neglect towards the values and dignity of people. For us this is culture. It is culture, for example, the attitude that the Minister has held in question, which, for what I know and for what we have read, has shown great lordship in responding to Mr Calderoli and in listening to his apologies, we do not care if more or less sincere. We brand that there is in Italy, for your responsibility (I say yours), a true absence on issues that are dramatic, because it can be today racism, it can be tomorrow feminicide, it can be the day after tomorrow homophobia, but all this comes from the absence of culture. And we, in recent decades, rather than investing in culture on all fronts and with any majority, have taken money away from public education, culture, integration policies: with any majority and with any government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Therefore, for us these are more or less useless resignations. We would like to go further: we would like this Parliament now to take on unpleasant words, now absolutely offensive gestures addressed to the public (and I remember that another President of the Senate was immortalized with a photograph while making it clear what he thought of the people denigrating him), but we would especially like all of us to regain a tenor of civilization. Well, all this can only be done if, beyond the hypocrisy of the moment, we go beyond the demand for simple, detailed and contingent resignation, because Italy is capable of doing something else, provided that we in here commit ourselves to doing so. So let's invest in culture, invest in public education! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, you tell me that there are not a few million people in the Commission of Education to deal with the issue of ill-suited people in school. Of course, the Minister has shown great lordship, and all this lordship is an expression of culture and morality. But this is possible when you are not in desperation, when you are not in misery, and luckily for us the Minister made it clear that it is of other pasta. We would like all Italians to be able to think of these words, which belong to each of us, as something of the past and not of a present that returns! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u25	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is bad for the institutions and the civilisation of the institutions. It hurts because in 2013 I doubt that there are parliaments in Europe that deal with the attack of a Vice President of the Senate to a Minister or in any case to a citizen of the same Republic with the words that have been used. It is not enough in this case to show a furry and passive solidarity: something more is needed, as has already been mentioned, starting with my colleague, Mr Zanda. It hurts the legal civilization of the institutions because, in the event that a high office of the State had been in this condition, it would have prevented an institution from discussing it, moving before it was called into the institution that presides - in fact, excellently and several times - to render reason for a behavior. This House, Mr President, has recently and in the past discussed everything: it has recently been mentioned by President Morra of the Istanbul Convention; we have ratified all the various and different types of treaties that promote human rights and civil rights. We do not lack that the assumption or ratification of the etiquette of Giovanni Della Casa, of which anyway it is worth reading. The point is that if Senator Calderoli is not recognized in diversity and diversity does not recognize equality of rights, we cancel centuries of struggle for freedom. That is the point, all the more serious if it comes from the Vice President of the Senate. In this Chamber a few years ago the words of a Senator of the Republic, Mario Luzi, resonated, who, before leaving (on these scranni remained very little, already being very old when he was appointed by the president of the Republic of Ciampi), left a few words, more or less the following: freedom is a gym where it is better to go every day, because those who do not attend that gym risk drying up. This House cannot formally demand the resignation of the Vice-President of the Senate, because the Rules of Procedure properly protect the autonomy of the institutions and, of course, their leadership. You can invoke them, but there should be a choral request from the whole of Parliament to go in this direction, because today we are talking about sharing or not a common law and shared values. So there can't just be a part of the Senate asking the Vice President of the Senate to protect the dignity of the Senate itself by resigning. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD and Senator Endrizzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u28	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, our Group also expresses its unconditional solidarity and, if we are allowed, also our friendship with the minister Cécile Kyenge, the target of something more than unhappy words: the target of an explosion of racism, said who preceded me. Perhaps, in the hope that the language of the meeting will not be taken out of that context, a colleague - if you will allow me, a friend - whom I had always esteemed for many years has abandoned himself to an unacceptable language towards any lady. Defining the minister Cécile Kyenge as "an orangutan" is an expression that disqualifies any argument that may have been brought against the policy of that government representative. Not later than a month, a month and a half ago, the Minister's policy, his programmatic statements about legislative intentions had been the subject of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) of an editorial by Giovanni Sartori even too fierce in the arguments, but in which there was absolutely no hateful assimilation (hatious because it instigates hatred). Then, from this point of view I would have expected, instead of the unhappy joke (I quote my colleague Zanda when he recalls the "unhappy joke" of my colleague Calderoli), that Calderoli himself said, with the spirit and imprentitude that sometimes characterizes him and for which many of us appreciated him: it was not me, it was one that resembles me; I already sent on behalf of the whole Senate a bouquet of flowers to the lady. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] This would also free the Senate from the very tiring procedural ping pong that his friend Nencini pictured earlier. Let us hope that the colleagues of the League will succeed in obtaining from Calderoli a polite way so that the Senate is no longer a prisoner of an affair that is unpleasant, not already for the Senate but for our country and for our generation, and to which I would not bind the question of this or that suitable to the competitions of the public education, which must have much more legislative path. [[Applause from the GAL, PDL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u31	BRUNO (PdL). Mr President, first of all, on behalf of myself and the PDL Group, I too wish to give Mr Kyenge full support. The fact that it has occurred is serious, I would say very serious, but it must be left entirely to the conscience of the vice president of the Senate Calderoli; in fact, from the speeches that have happened today, it seems to me that an excuse has been found with the most unhappy story of friend Calderoli. I'm not here to defend him. I repeat, he must respond only to his conscience and draw the consequences from it, but it is his personal fact. If you want to give a lesson in life or politics, I believe that all or many of those who have spoken should remember what language is being used today against the political opponent. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Fucksia]] Calling "pocket dwarf" a Parent Company, by anyone mentioned, I do not think it is a good thing, as it is not called a Member of Parliament "Pytoness," that is, attacking my colleague Carfagna. I didn't hear any voices, I didn't hear anyone complaining. [[Applause from the PdL Group and the Senators Lanzillotta, Giannini and Fucksia]] CERONI (PdL). Bravo! BRUNO (PdL). I am not talking about how much and what is said about our leader, Mr Berlusconi! [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] Sounds like real speculation to me. It is as if, every time we read the statements of one of you, we ask for it to be removed from the assignment to which that person is destined. I would therefore spread a pitiful veil on this. I regret and regret the Minister, who did not deserve this, also because she is working well, even on projects which we do not share, but which will be the subject of debate in this House. I am sorry for Vice-President Calderoli, but I insist and repeat that it is a fact that must remain outside this House. The Vice President is absent today, and I am sorry that he is not watching this debate. Perhaps his voice would have led in some way to further tightening up or to a different solution. Knowing him, I believe his conscience will be such. You've made an apology. It's probably not enough, but that's my thought, I don't know if it's yours. I insist: the fact is serious, but it will not be the first or the last. I believe - and here I quote Mr Zanda - that politics should continue to show credibility: with these debates I do not believe that we are doing so. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u34	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I could begin with a rather well-known phrase: I feel that everything in this House is hostile to us except for your personal courtesy. First of all, however, we would like to make a calm reasoning, defining some issues. The absence of Vice President Calderoli had already been communicated: there is a political secretariat in Milan, so it is not instrumental, but prior to what is being discussed today. My colleagues who have spoken have highlighted one fact and even the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly regretted the way in which the foreign press is handling this matter. We all know what the foreign press is and what foreign correspondents are: the foreign correspondent in Rome or writes something interesting or is called up. And when we provide material such as that which has been published for a few days in all our newspapers, our events, our comments, this certainly does not help the image of Italy abroad. The correspondent takes our beautiful newspapers, possibly scandalistic, copy and paste, cut and sew and make his own article. Needless to say, we are also treated from abroad as we are treated. If then we also make confusion, voluntary or involuntary, by attributing facts (as Mr Morra did) to members of the Democratic Party as former Legists - in history someone or all of us are and will always be exes - to people so that they have nothing to do with the party, this does not help to clarify. We would, however, like to divide the two issues, which Mr Zanda has also mentioned in part. On the one hand there is the institutional level, where one thing is said. In this House, Mr Calderoli has always been judged - I do not want to do so, President - as one of the best Presidents as regards the conduct of the Assembly's work. He is aware of the Rules of Procedure, punctual, independent, but above all third in all matters, and he is also able to take the floor of one member of his Group and then he is able to use his velvet hand towards someone else, in order to prevent his management of the work from being denied a lack of independence. Appreciations have been made, I believe, here too. The other level is the political-party level. Each of us, each of you, is in particular moments: we make election campaigns where the low shots often and willingly turn, but especially when we talk to our supporters we use a different language, we search for and maybe we use stronger arguments and the tones can often go over the lines. But, I repeat, we are in two completely different areas. In this second capacity, if we want, we can also admit that Mr Calderoli has probably gone too far, but it seems to me that he himself recognized it because in the aftermath of the controversy he took the phone, spoke directly to Mrs Kyenge, apologised in person and made public amends, made public apologies. Mixing the institutional aspect with the party-political one would be a serious mistake. It is not appropriate to bother Voltaire in this House, but to draw attention to the principle of double standards. Of offensive phrases in these last few periods we have heard it to an overflowing extent. I don't think Grillo can teach anyone anything about style or bon ton, colleague Morra. But only in order to remain in the last episodes - Senator Bruno recalled - we have heard the term "pythoness" a former Undersecretary, "caiman," to end up as "psyconan," a former President of the Council; Peter's - and those who knew him last legislature know this - was allowed to offend one day yes and the other as well. In these cases, we have never heard such indignation as we are listening to these days and today in this House. Colleagues, double standards. I have to say, even if it's something that touches us and hurts us, but a person of the League will probably be branded for life for an epithet played. And printing and reprinting, cascaded, using a bad name, probably Renzo Bossi, the only regional councilman of Italy resigned without having received even a warranty notice, but for what happened around himself, the name "trota" will not take it away anymore for life. [[Comments.]] We have not heard - excuse me, colleagues - a person calling again in this case the dignity of the subject who has been caught in the middle. For us, as far as the League Group is concerned, the case is closed. We are convinced that there has been an intemperance; there has been a public apology. However, I would urge all colleagues to look at the straw or beam in their eyes. We would not want all this - those in good faith, those who naively fell there - to serve to cover up something that is happening before our eyes, but from which perhaps it is better to divert attention. And it is a bad story of international relations between Italy and Kazakhstan. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u35	The debate on this subject seems to me to be closed. We await any words from Vice President Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u36	I inform you that the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has communicated that, in the session of 11 July 2013, it has verified not to be contestable the following elections and, competing in the elected the qualities required by the law, has declared them valid: for the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia: Lorenzo Battista, Bernabò Bocca, Isabella De Monte, Alessandro Maran, Carlo Pegorer, Francesco Russo and Lodovico Sonego. I acknowledge this communication and declare these elections validated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u37	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00008, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-0057, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, 1-00082 (text 2), tabled by Senator Battista and other senators, and 1-00107, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, on the participation of Italy in the F-35 project. I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u38	Mr President, we all know the history of the F-35, that is, the programme on this fifth generation bomber. I would like to remind you here that the project for the realization of this aircraft is the result of an agreement between the United States and eight partner countries, including Italy, which provides for the realization of 3,173 aircraft, for an estimated total cost of 396 billion dollars, even if - this is one of the first critical elements - no one, at present, is able to quantify the final cost of the entire project. Every single plane today is still estimated at $190 million. I have mentioned, Mr President, colleagues, representatives of the Government, the other eight countries, because these other eight countries - each for a different reason - are in some way questioning their participation in this programme. Great Britain will decide the number of aircraft purchased only after the release of the Defence and Security review in 2015. The Netherlands has launched a parliamentary inquiry. Australia will not use the F-35 as an exclusive platform. Turkey postponed the purchase of the first F-35. Norway, where there is a very heated debate, has several times ventilated the hypothesis of rethinking its choices on the F-35. Denmark reopened the competition to decide by 2015 which aircraft to operate. Canada, finally, has suspended the competition for the purchase of the bomber fighters: the rethinking, among other things, is born precisely from the polemics tied to the omissions of the government on the costs. A study conducted by an independent company and other public control bodies shows that the total cost over 40 years, including expenditure items related to use and maintenance, amounts to over 45 billion dollars. Our country's participation in the project began in 1996 with Andreatta, but more organically in 1998, with an initial request for Italy of 131 aircraft, then reduced in 2012 to 90 aircraft. The total costs related to the first three phases amount to $1,942 million (a little more than €14 billion). These are the figures we are talking about today. I would like to remind you that discussions have recently taken place in the Senate, both in this House and in the Commissions, during which the request was made for a more in-depth debate. All this instead, besides the decision to enter the program, has matured outside of a serious discussion, which we instead ask in a very serious and precise way, on the redefinition of the Italian defense model, which should be refocused in a very coherent way with the constitutional dictation and therefore also in coherence with an idea of foreign policy in which we (and not only us, to the truth) think that the fundamental role for the Armed Forces of our country is that of peacekeeping. The debate that has developed in the public, in newspapers and among citizens on the F-35 programme is linked to the assessment of the overall cost of the programme itself, as well as the unitary cost. I remember, in fact, that there was also a discussion on the question of the cost of helmets to be used on this aircraft. All this was the case, Mr President and colleagues, while the technical validity of the so-called fifth-generation bomber fighters, for a number of reasons which - I would like to remind you - have also been widely taken up in the discussions which took place among the highest ranks of our armed forces, was increasingly being called into question in many parts of the United States, and hence from the Pentagon itself. I would also remind you that, thanks to the data released by the Monti Government, we have had the opportunity to take stock of the other defence programmes. I recall here a series of programmes covering satellite systems, the NEC Force programme for EUR 22 billion, the FREMM frigates for EUR 5.680 million. I could continue by listing a number of other projects that involve costs, at least expected, absolutely exorbitant. In particular, the Force NEC program is closely linked to a really big project related to the digitalization of the Army, to provide 30,000 soldiers with hi-tech equipment. The questions we raise are as follows. Let us think of the situation so difficult for our country from an economic point of view, which this House is well aware of, having so far discussed decrees that have often been difficult to cope with, how difficult it has been to adopt amendments that were also going to respond to primary needs. I am thinking only of the infinite and constant debate we have had on the funds for the reconstruction of the Eagle and in Emilia after the earthquake, in a situation of difficulty which has almost always led the 5th Commission to express an opinion against it because of the lack of coverage. As I said, in a difficult situation in the country from the financial point of view - that is the point we are questioning - I do not think we can lightly address the issue of Italy's participation in a program like what I have just outlined. I was particularly impressed - as all the citizens have been impressed - by the fact that, while the period of forest fires is nearing, there is a lack of resources for the purchase of Canadair, i.e. the aircraft used for the civil defence of our country but also of our forests. And in the meantime, you think you can keep moving on with the F-35 program. But I remember the list of programs that I indicated, in addition to the F-35 program. We must deny once and for all - a very important fact - that the expenditure for the defence of our country is one of the lowest, as we continue to hear repeated. We know perfectly well that all investments in such programmes are within the budget of the Ministry of Economic Development. Maybe we'll have to deal with it differently. For all these reasons, appealing to the sense of responsibility of the country for a clear choice on the model of defence and on where to allocate the resources, with our motion we ask to get out of the program and that the resources that have been allocated and planned for the purchase of the F-35 are invested for the schools and for the great work that we consider indispensable against the hydrogeological failure that would give a little 'breath to the economy, for the good - this yes - of our country. [[Applause from Senator Mussini's Mixed-Sele Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u39	I call Senator Casson to explain motion No 57.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u40	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Senators, Government gentlemen, since the end of the last parliamentary term, the affair of the F-35 assault bombers had come to the attention of Parliament and, inexorable, it has reappeared at the beginning of this parliamentary term as one of the most emblematic and contrasted issues. On June 6 of this year it was published, together with the proceedings of the Senate sitting, before even talking about it in the Chamber of Deputies, with the signature of more than 20 senators, the motion on the F-35 under discussion today and at my first signature. The whole affair, which is sensitive and controversial also for the balance between the parliamentary groups, can be dealt with and discussed in at least three respects. The first level, in some ways clearer and clearer, is that of the call to peace, to pacifism, to the construction of peace. It is so clear and clear that it can be considered preclusive of any other consideration with regard to a war instrument, as objectively is an assault bomber. But I do not want to go too far on the point, which is quite clear, because I feel that I should have to deal here with the other more debated aspects of the matter, precisely to explain why the F-35 programme should be suspended immediately. The criticism - heavy criticism - of the F-35 project comes from the same military-industrial world. They are well known, I would say by now notories, the peripecies (even serious) that are accompanying the birth of this project, so much to have determined the rethinking, the scaling down or even the cancellation of own participation in the program by the majority of the participating States, mainly as a result of the exorbitant costs and unstoppable ascent, moreover in the presence of worrying technological and technical criticalities and of absolute importance, that have led even the Pentagon and the American GAO (Government accountability office) to make the step. But it is above all from within the Italian military world that they come close and convinced criticism. The Chief of Staff of the NATO Forces of South Europe, former commander of the NATO-KFOR mission in 2002-2003, General Fabio Mini, publicly denounced the desire for the programme, instead hoping for a new and different model of defence, integrated at European level at least, that in this perspective, while safeguarding quality and quantity, could lead at least to a half of the current budget of Italian Defense. And always staying at the F-35 assault bomber, I just remember how much further denounced by the so-called Air Force Bible, "Aviation Week," which spoke of considerable technical deficiencies, so much so that it was also written about an expensive, problematic and unreliable hunt. But without wanting to go into more specialist technical exquisites and evaluations, I register the existence of alternatives considered more reliable, less expensive and with greater technological and economic repercussions, such as the Eurofighter program or the priority choice to focus on a certain type of helicopter, options on which I do not make any consideration. This last reflection allows me to move to the third level of the affair, the one relating to the alleged economic and employment benefits that would be guaranteed by the F-35 programme. Now, apart from the fact that the data provided by the companies concerned date back to beyond a lustre ago (a period too wide compared to the financial events and technical misfortunes of the prototypes of recent years), a negative response is imposed by a double elementary consideration. Firstly, the costs of the programme, in their enormous size, are constantly rising and unpredictable, aggravated by the fact that there has already been international concealment of financial data, particularly with regard to the use and maintenance of aircraft. Secondly, at this time of economic, employment and financial crisis that has also affected Italy and at a time when cuts in public and private resources are bringing our economy to its knees and bringing tears and blood - as they say - to those who have less, is it appropriate to squander resources in expenses such as those necessary for an assault bomber? Is it not more appropriate for common sense and also for our Constitutional Charter to better identify priorities and allocate the few resources available to areas that are more sensitive and suffering? And this choice is the responsibility of our Parliament. Now, it has been interpreted by the most recent intervention of the Supreme Defence Council as a tense entry into the F-35 affair. It is true or false that it is, I believe, laws in the hand that the aforementioned Council has no specific power in this matter. At the end of the last legislature, with Law No 244 of 31 December 2012, after extensive and specific discussion, the legislation on this matter had been consciously and deliberately modified, with a large majority, giving Parliament and its competent Commissions of merit a precise power of intervention and decision on certain programs of the Ministry of Defence, specifically on the systems of weapon, power of Parliament of course prevailing with respect to the will of the executive power. Whether it is right or wrong, whether or not it is, this is the law of December 2012 and the rules governing the activities and competences of the Supreme Defence Council do not shift the institutional landscape mentioned to the state by a comma. As far as the motion that I am making is concerned, I cannot fail to note the numerous points of convergence with regard to the motion with Senator Zanda as the first signatory. It could not be otherwise, given that both support is given to the need to boost a common European defence dimension and above all to fully respect Parliament's prerogatives under Article 4 of the Law of 31 December 2012, n. 244. It should not be forgotten, as far as the Democratic Party in particular is concerned, the content of the Democratic Party's electoral programme in this regard, where it was literally written: The Democratic Party shares the public's concern about arms expenditure. Without prejudice to the fact that the state's defence and security needs have changed radically, but they remain, we must absolutely review our commitment to the F-35s. Our priority is work. Work, in all its facets; and why should this priority be waived? Maybe to give space to industrial-military lobby, which in the past years, but also recently, have characterized themselves and are remembered above all for endless stories of bribes, corruptions and evils, national and international? In order to return to the texts we are debating today, what is the difference between the two motions just mentioned? Simply in the fact that the motion of which I am the first signatory asks for the immediate suspension of the F-35 programme. This in the presence of expenses for the F-35 already planned and allocated for this year (500 million euros), while for 2014 534,4 million euros are programmed and for 2015 657 million euros are programmed. This in order to complete the purchase immediately of two or three F-35 assault bomber fighters and for the purchase in the coming months of another seven-eight bomber fighters. Just what, in immediacy, one would like to avoid, without being mocked, deciding to allocate immediate savings of expenditure, as well as huge future ones, to real priorities, economic and social. Gentlemen of the Government, you are only embarrassed by the choice, if only you really cared about the fate of the royal country. In conclusion, to the Minister of Defense, who seems to love the Vegetian speech, then borrowed from the most famous Arpinate, "Si vis pacem," para bellum "," I suggest an expression more appropriate to our era and our Constitution: "Si vis pacem," para pacem ". [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u41	I call Senator Baptist to explain motion 82 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u42	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the motion tabled by the 5 Star Movement, which we are debating today, calls for Italy to definitively abandon the JSF programme for the purchase of bombers F-35. We ask this because we firmly believe that this is an unnecessary expenditure, a high and unjustified waste of public money, at a time when our country is not yet able to climb up the slope of recession and build opportunities for work. Before I go into the substance of this motion, I would like to make clear what has happened in recent days. I would like to focus on the statements made in the Supreme Defence Council, chaired by President Napolitano. The Supreme Defence Council argues that, according to the Constitution, decisions on the modernisation of the Armed Forces are the responsibility of the Executive. I think it is worth remembering here that, during the seven-year term of President Cossiga, the powers and powers of the Supreme Defence Council were redefined. It is, in fact, a body of information and advice of the President of the Republic and, only indirectly, of the Government. Therefore, given the role, it does not seem competent to impose vetoes on the Chambers. The text of the Council's resolution states that, as operational decisions and technical measures, the specific competence to decide the purchase of the F-35 would be the responsibility of the Government. Without prejudice to this prerogative, however, in the opinion of the 5 Star Movement, the situation must turn in another way. While it is true that the Commission is competent to implement programmes already approved by Parliament, it is unthinkable that, within a republic governed by a form of parliamentary government, Parliament itself cannot indisputably direct the work of the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This would therefore lead to a profound distortion of the institutional mechanism. In this way, an excessive privilege is granted to the Government, that is to make its decisions indisputable. And that, in a parliamentary Republic, is not acceptable. It is absolutely legitimate for Parliament to assess multiannual plans: the Parliament itself, to which our Constitution has reserved a central, representative and guiding role, and not a body responsible for the ratification of measures already taken by the Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Returning to the motion in question, it is necessary to stress the critical issues that emerged during the programme, which are many and obvious, already highlighted by my colleague De Petris. The doubts inherent in this project are always increasing, to the point that many of the partner countries have taken a step back. The UK will decide the number of aircraft to be purchased after the 2015 Defence and Security Review has been published; the Netherlands has launched a parliamentary inquiry following a heavy vote against the project; Australia will not use the F-35 as an exclusive platform, also purchasing other aircraft; Turkey has postponed the purchase of the first F-35; Norway has threatened to rethink its choices on the JSF; Denmark reopened the competition to decide by 2015 which aircraft to operate and Canada suspended the race for the purchase of the new fighter. In Canada, in particular, the rethinking arises from the polemics resulting from the omissions of the Government on costs: an independent study of Kyrgyzstan and other public control bodies have in fact established that the total cost in 40 years, including also the use and the maintenance, is of over 45 billion dollars, that at the current exchange rate are 33 billion euros (that is three times the cost previewed by the Government). And we know very well how all the great works and purchases for which billions of euros are expected are underestimated. The F-35 bomber fighters involve an exorbitant expense for our country (well 14 billion euros). It is a very questionable choice, due to the characteristics of the aircraft, suitable for attack functions in war theatres and able to carry nuclear devices. In 2011 there was a referendum to put an end to nuclear power as an energy supply system, but we continue to keep it in our country, because we are for peace. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why does not one of our colleagues, at the time of the vote, wonder why the F-35 was adopted? Maybe someone didn't tell him that the F-22 wasn't capable of carrying the B61 bombs that Americans like so much and we have to like them too? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's a real war weapon. On June 26, the Chamber and Senate Defense Commissions, in joint session, auditioned the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General Pasquale Preziosa, who, during the audition, said that the F-35 is not a combat aircraft. In fact, it isn't. We think it's a real bomber plane. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] They are, in short, aircraft capable of being used in war scenarios, the same war that our Constitution repudiates. We have perhaps forgotten Article 11 of the Fundamental Charter of our Republic: Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes. Maybe if we drop some nuclear bombs, we'll sort it out. Our constituent Fathers used the verb "repudiare", which encloses all moral repugnance towards the horrors of war and violence, crystallizing in a categorical duty the moral obligation, even before legal, to ban the use of war as an instrument of conquest and as a means of resolving international disputes. Therefore, it is LaPalissian that project F-35 is completely inconsistent with a foreign and defence policy that should pursue objectives of peace, cooperation and conflict prevention. It should also be stressed that international studies are being carried out which report serious defects in the F-35, so as to constitute its unusability. A clearly bankrupt project, as the Americans themselves point out first. I remember some studies commissioned by the Pentagon itself, such as that of the Rand Corporation (a world-famous military consulting company), which first cut off the vertical take-off model and, more recently, the conventional take-off model, pointing out the defects of these aircraft. In order not to miss anything, we take some of it either by traditional take-off or by vertical take-off. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In fact, the lack of visibility, the inefficiency of the technological helmet and radar is criticized, but also the set-up, the flight autonomy, and not only: it has been documented that, in the state, the maintenance of these aircraft would cost more than 40% compared to the current fighters (we are in a period of cost saving, so we increase the expenses also for maintenance). In light of what has just been said, Defense Secretary Robert Gates has stated that if Lockheed does not solve all these problems within two years (the company has already made more than eight hundred modifications to the initial project), the American Government will withdraw its purchase request. The question is spontaneous: but if even the Americans, who launched the program, with the continuation of these circumstances could decide to abandon the project, why in Italy the Government still has doubts? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Moreover, given the costs of the program, a source of performance not only uncertain, as just said, but almost impossible and absolutely not corresponding to the Italian defensive needs, it is worth pointing out, in spite of what the Government continues to affirm, probably closer to the logic of the military spending lobby than to the real needs of the country, how much the industrial and occupational repercussions would be very far from expectations. The employment effects of the programme would be very modest for Italy and very far from that forecast of the Defense of about 10,000 jobs, which recalls promises of Berlusconian memory. This is when, with the same resources, investing them in public works and employment policies, a great many more jobs could be created. It should also be remembered that our companies will not benefit in terms of technological relapse, since we are second-class suppliers. In fact, we do not buy product technologies or process technologies. The assembly and maintenance that will be carried out in Cameri will involve activities of mere execution of processes, without added value and without the possibility of obtaining any real know-how, moreover strongly protected by Americans. What, then, would represent this indispensable opportunity for Italian industry? I'm gonna finish. We therefore believe it is necessary to ask ourselves: why should the Government spend this exorbitant amount of public money (I repeat that it is 14 billion euros) to buy warplanes when we have a country hit by a devastating economic crisis? It is a waste that we absolutely cannot afford. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In a moment of deep recession, like what we are experiencing, one cannot but reflect on what the priorities of the country are: they are certainly not the F-35. The problem of unemployment is a priority; relaunching the economy is a priority. It is clear, then, that a government worthy of this name must say no, without itself and without but, to such madness. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Avaaz association, which has already collected more than 380,000 entries on its website "www.avaaz.org." Perhaps we should also listen a little more to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u43	I call Senator Vattuone to explain motion no.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u44	107.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u45	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the motion that we have tabled and are about to debate today is a matter of absolute importance, relating to our national defence and security system. It is an issue on which Parliament has a primary responsibility, even in interaction with the Government: it has the responsibility to set the guidelines, the aims, the priorities, the lines of development that we intend to assign to our military instrument, both on national territory and in the international context; it also has the responsibility to verify the compatibility of weapon systems within the framework of the general guidelines. These are a series of sensitive and important issues which give Parliament greater responsibility in the careful and careful evaluation and consistency of the choices, for which specific assessments and in-depth analysis are necessary to enable Parliament itself to exercise a true expression of merit, not just declarations of principle. We are debating a motion, an act of direction which, of course, can only express certain directives, indicate certain needs and, like the motion we are examining, introduce an instrument of deepening. Today's debate can of course only mention an extremely complex subject which would require much more analysis. It is certainly a good thing, however, that Parliament will focus on the point of evolution of our military instrument and make a kind of reconnaissance, reaffirming the centrality of Parliament on these issues, starting from the question of the F-35 programme, with a deepening that requires commitment and time to examine in depth all the elements of the system and its balance. This is the text of the motion we are debating today. This text represents a point of balance, identified by the House and which the proposing groups considered it appropriate to reiterate in the same terms to the Senate, on the guidelines of our military instrument, on the direction to be given to our defence system and on the verification of the proposed acquisition of the weapon system of the F-35; verify that, obviously, it cannot be carried out except in the context of a broader analysis. In this sense, the text could only start from the coordinates of our Constitution, the aforementioned Article 11 above, which explains the repudiation of war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of peoples and as a criterion for resolving international disputes. The second period of the same article 11 also makes explicit a commitment for our country to help create an international order based on peace and democratic coexistence in support in particular of the most oppressed peoples and, therefore, to be an active subject in multilateral organizations on the international scene. There is also Article 52, whose application has had a historical importance in developing the sense of belonging to the community and which has essentially accelerated the notion of civil commitment. It is from these coordinates that comes the commitment of the Armed Forces and, more generally, our commitment, now of very long period, to international missions and of course our position within the framework of the major multilateral organizations. Today that the economic crisis and the changes in the geopolitical scenario are leading to an acceleration in the integration of European defence, we must include our national defence and security project in the more general defence plan of the European Union, in the awareness that our country's participation in the general responsibility of the international community for the defence of peace and security is not under discussion, as our Constitution requires. In this sense, reference is made to the next European Council meeting on 19 and 20 December; the process of integrating European defence which, in the past, has lacked strategy and coherence, today appears absolutely essential to enable the European Union to play a role in favour of international security and stability and, through the development of a common industrial and technological base, for the same economic growth and competitiveness of the Union. The importance of the December meeting is, among other things, confirmed by the fact that Commissions 4a and 14a of the Senate have already begun a deepening on the next European Council in December, which intends to involve Parliament on the issues in question and to provide a stimulus to the Government to take priority to relaunch the process of European integration on defence and security and to actively promote the development of joint European programmes. All this while the Defense is proceeding to a continuous reduction of its budget. It is of course understandable that in the current economic context the defence sector should also be responsible for doing its part. The point is that our Defense has already started the process of rationalization and redevelopment of military spending outlined by Law No 244 of 2012, which represents a real reform of the system. This is where our Defense lies in summary: the need to balance operational capabilities with available resources. Judging from some of the positions expressed here in this House on this subject, it would appear that our country is now proceeding with a substantial increase in military spending and that we are facing a race for re-armament. Reality is exactly the opposite. There is a need for modernisation of operational instruments, which are now at the end of their operational life, but, as reported also by an authoritative independent research center, the basic data, not only for Italy, but for the whole of Europe (and I stress in particular for our country, as indicated in the motion that we are discussing), is a slow but constant overall erosion of the defence budgets; an inevitable process given the serious economic and financial crisis. However, there is also another aspect of the problem: our active participation in multinational initiatives, in the collective effort of the international community for peace and stability, cannot be taken for granted without having effective operational tools and policies that can prevent conflicts before the violent phase. I think that the agendas of Western countries must integrate preventive instruments of conflict management by acting strongly on dialogue, diplomacy, operations, as has been said, of peace keeping and intelligence, but it is clear that in order to build peace and to talk about confrontation, participation, sharing of European and international programmes and projects, we must, ladies and gentlemen, speak with courage, obligatory, of efficient operational and precautionary instruments. We therefore need to modernise our military instrument, which is, as I said, part of the process of rationalizing current expenditure. We must continually fuel our commitment, to be credible and to contribute to international stability, with a role consistent with the expectations of a modern country that is fully involved in the European security policy and the Atlantic Alliance. Now, in conclusion, two things are clear: the first is the centrality of Parliament; the second is that the instrument of the cognitive survey will be useful to deepen and verify, before an expression of merit, the technical and economic aspects, also in relation to the quantitative and qualitative aspects and industrial strategy of the F-35 programme which emerged in the current debate. I repeat, at the end of my speech, that a survey conducted by Parliament on the strategic perspectives of our defence system, on its security and therefore also on the weapon systems to be adopted (in particular on the point of the F-35), taking into account the present economic situation, the alliances in which we place ourselves, the related needs for interoperability and the employment consequences that can be achieved by the different options, is the best solution and common sense. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u46	I declare the debate open. Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the country questions the validity of a purchase of F-35 aircraft, a program designed and designed in the United States, involving eight other countries. Also on the F-35 there is a very strong attention from the organized world of civil society, naturally engaged in the promotion of peace and punctual criticism has been advanced, with an unprecedented design attitude; but, attention, there have been critical voices from a part of the same military, Italian and international sectors. That's why a critical attitude on the F-35 should not be defeated; that's why the F-35 must ask politics for a qualitative leap: design culture, loyalty and correctness of information, ability to choose the best way. The House has achieved a first result, that of not proceeding without Parliament expressing its views on the subject; this is how the Law No 244 of 2012, which for the first time moved the decision, involving the two branches of Parliament, as is the case in the more advanced and mature democracies. Now here in the Senate, we are making the same path, but we are asked to do more in order to three critical points that are very common and shared. The programme has never been discussed sufficiently in Parliament, so it is necessary to have more time to deepen, know and evaluate better. There are very strong doubts about the technical quality of the aircraft, so much so that the Pentagon and the technicians who worked on the project have expressed doubts on several occasions and even production has been interrupted several times. The costs of participating in the programme have risen and are now too high. A serious country, faced with an unprecedented crisis, must question the need to spend well over EUR 14 billion on the purchase of a specific weapon of offense. There is one aspect which must be taken seriously and which is making a structural criticism of the F-35 programme: Europe is excluded from this project, indeed it can be argued that the project has gone beyond the need to build an integrated defence model. I am increasingly convinced that the United States of Europe must be built in the various fields of policy, fiscal finance, university, research, culture and solidarity. Even those who have grown up in the culture of peace, like me, cannot turn their back on the need to create an unprecedented modern model of European defence. It cannot be ruled out that an integrated European model could reconcile the two urgent needs: to reduce arms costs and to have a modern and technologically advanced European defence. Supporters of the F-35 program have often used the theme of the productive and occupational fallback on our economy and on some particular territories, a problem not only, but it has been discovered that this fallback has often been emphasized and exploited. The results are far below those announced, so it is also necessary to take a more critical attitude in this case is better informed. So questioning the F-35 is not by irresponsible or mere disarmers; it can become a serious and well-founded necessity. We need a substantial suspension to decide quickly as a European defence model and what weapon systems we need to use in a context of reducing military spending, in order to relaunch Italy and Europe's rights and productive work in civil and eco-sustainable sectors. Of course, progress has been made in recent years on reducing military spending. It has been reported by authoritative organizations, such as the SIPRI (Stockholm international peace research institute) that military spending in Italy has decreased by 5.2 percent between 2011 and 2012 and 19 percent between 2003 and 2012. That is why the time has come for Parliament to better assess, block this programme and ensure that our country is in Europe with a high head, with a more appropriate defence model and with resources to be allocated, at this time of crisis, to civil sectors so important for the future of growth and employment of our young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u48	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u49	Mr President, the debate on Italy's participation in the flight project F-35 concerns several points: the budget of our country hit hard by the economic crisis, ethical issues related to the theme of peace and the strategic role that Italy can play within the European Union. It is known to all that we of Left Ecology and Freedom have always opposed this project and we are to stop it immediately. The F-35s, it has already been said, are offensive war instruments, attack planes in complete contradiction with Article 11 of the Constitution. We are pacifists, and we believe that every euro spent on arms takes away resources from social spending: this is a huge waste of public resources that should be invested to revive the economy and work. The nonviolence as a means of resolving personal conflicts that we have practiced in recent years is part of our identity and we have practiced it in our personal and family relationships, in our way of discussing and in the reading that we have given of the processes of involution of our society, as well as in the many marches for peace that we have participated as lay people along with so many believers. With the cost of an F-35, as has been said, we could secure 285 Italian schools, provide unemployment benefits for 17,200 precarious workers, or create 3,500 new jobs through the construction of 387 kindergartens, guaranteeing coverage to 11,610 families! Concrete acts, therefore, very important in the epoch of the decree of the doing. We are accused of ideological pacifism, but we have no hesitation in discussing the validity of the operation in terms of industrial policy and Italy's role at international level: in both cases, that of the F-35 remains a wrong operation. The F-35 are useless, too expensive, to date unreliable (as many studies tell us), without technological advantages nor significant employment spillovers; pharaonic investments that will cost our country as much as 14 billion euros only for the purchase of fighters and 52 billion for the management at full speed; all this happens while President Letta considers a strategic victory the allocation of 1.5 billion euros for the work of young people. It is a slap in the face of our participation in the Eurofighter project, whose planes cost half and have superior technical characteristics also in terms of reliability; it is a project that guarantees an economic and technological return and are already in use in the Italian army in the name of the construction of a European defence system. This is a passive project with little impact on employment. The thousand new employees that we are finally talking about are not new jobs, but derive from the shift of the employees envisaged today by the Alenia-Eurofighier project, leaving skills, research and the real employment fallout elsewhere. In recent years it has been the conversion of war enterprises that has had a real employment fallout. At the end of the 1980s the military technologies of the Officine Galileo were used for civil use for environmental remote sensing. Perhaps not many know that one of the most important wind farms in Italy, with more than 700 occupied, controlled by the Danish Vestas, was born from a project of military conversion of Alenia, the former Aeritalia, and also that the Oerlikon Graziano, which produces in Bari systems of changes for luxury cars and tractors, was born from diversification towards the civil use of Oto Melara; and again: the civil planes of Agusta, the yachts of Fincantieri. The conversion of the war industry is not only possible, but provides great employment opportunities, especially at a time when the economic crisis brings with it a positive reduction in military spending. The Letta Government seems to have endorsed Pansa's plan to review the civil sector of Finmeccanica, which instead would be to be strengthened and developed. We say to the Government that it is not disbanding at this time the civil sector that can be fostered recovery and re-launched employment. Managing Finmeccanica would need a personality from the industrial world of high technology, a capable and innovative manager, able to integrate and develop in the civil field the most advanced sectors. Instead we choose De Gennaro, a senior police officer, whose merits we recognize as an investigator but the demerits for the bankruptcy of public order at the G8 in Genoa: it is also his political responsibility for the Chilean butchery at Diaz school. We come to a final point that we care about: the subjection of Italy to a friendly country like the United States, the best demonstration of what a strange idea of Europe has in mind the majority of broad understandings. A serious element of the F-35 affair concerns the role that our country wants to play in the European Union and in the world chessboard. Many of us belong to a generation that has not been anti-American, but precisely for this reason we do not feel the need to prove that we no longer have to be anti-American by taking subdiction positions towards the United States. We are a generation that deeply belongs to Europe, which considers the European countries not as allies but as fellow travelers, its citizens, and together with the other European countries we consider ourselves allies of the United States. That is why we believe that the F-35 project is completely wrong, the result of a so-called double furnace foreign policy approach. The story of the F-35 shows the inability of a generation of politicians and military that has therefore lowered the technological potential of our country, making the citizens pay the bill. Mrs Bonino, with whom we completely disagree on the Snowden affair, argues that in Europe we have 27 useless and expensive armies: two million people in uniform, perhaps not even talking to each other. That is why we must at least build a single European army, review the dislocations of the military in Italy, bring together and share experiences, reduce by far the costs, overlaps and waste; this can and must be done today: it is not necessary to wait for the birth of federal Europe, which we in SEL particularly hope for. In the election campaign the programmes of the center-left, those of Italia Bene Comune, were very clear on the F-35 and we do not understand, or perhaps we understand it very well, this sudden shyness of the Democratic Party. We owe it to Italian citizens to cut waste and overlap. We can only get out of this economic crisis by speeding up and strengthening the path of European integration, in order to abandon the Europe of technocrats and austerity alone, born in the heads above all of the banks, not of our citizens. Today we assume a great responsibility towards the Italians: today we decide whether to invest resources against poverty or instead buy aircraft that can launch atomic weapons. Go then to explain to the Cassaintegrati, to the unemployed, to the precarious young people that this second option is more just. This decision is entirely the responsibility of the Italian Parliament and we consider it very serious that the Supreme Council of Defence, chaired by President Napolitano, has argued that Parliament cannot put any vetoes on joining the project. Then we need a true cultural revolution; we need to decide which side to stand on. We are for Europe, for peace, for a compatible development, for the common good of Italy. We will never, not even indirectly, become complicit in war horrors. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u50	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, my speech as a representative of the territory of Novara, which welcomes, at the airport of the Air Force in Cameri, the FACO, as assembly centre, wants to point out immediately that the F-35 programme has not so far brought employment and economic repercussions on our territory. The hyperbolic forecasts so flagdierato in the past years (the employment panacea of Novara) have proved to be yet another illusion. The data on employment put us in a situation quite different from the one that had been promised and jobs would largely result from the mobility of supernumerary workers in Alenia in Turin or in other areas of Finmeccanica. Our fellow citizens, who have suffered a sharp fall in employment in all sectors and have therefore more rightly hoped for the 15,000-20,000 jobs promised, feel deceived, because they have gone up and down over the years and are now reduced to less than a tenth (according to the most optimistic figures). I repeat, to be clear: the new jobs at the FACO in Cameri would be only a few hundred, and the local employment fallout would be minimal. Over the last two and a half years, the Novara Democratic Party, through a specific commission, has listened to and discussed with hundreds of citizens - these, on the contrary, increasing numbers! - and met with the main actors of the territory, as well as experts and representatives of a national character. It has been unanimously approved a document which contains the most obvious problems of the F-35 programme, concerning the sustainability of costs (purchase and management), the validity of the weapon system and its compliance with national and European defence needs, and calls for a correct and realistic reflection on the technological, industrial and - as I have already said - employment effects on Italy and Europe. The ballet of the numbers on the costs and the quantity of fighters F-35 that Italy would buy was an element of great disorientation. Let's make the point: to date, Italy has undertaken to buy 11 aircraft, if the data are correct; about 2 billion has cost the research phase, carried out in the United States, and every fighter bomber would cost about 150 million dollars (of course with the due differences depending on the type). The Zanda motion and others commit the Government not to proceed to any further stage of acquisition until Parliament expresses its views on the matter. We consider it essential, for the present and future of defence policy, the rule that is repeatedly referred to in the premise and the operative part of the motion: Law No 244 of 31 December 2012, which confers competence on the future of the military order in Parliament. The merit of this result - as Senator Casson said - is in particular the PD, which wanted to impose this rule a few months ago. Only a few months ago it was decided not to compromise with these clear motivations: the consistency of the adoption of the programs of the weapon system following assessments concerning the international geopolitical situation, the identification of the strategic challenges looming, the coherence and the adequacy of the military investments, that must be contextualized in the light of the general conditions of the public finance and the economic and social crisis that our Country is going through. All of this must be in the hands of Parliament. Today, with the Zanda motion, we believe that a significant response is also given to the Novara territory, which for years has been asking for truth about this program and which in turn makes available the skills acquired, feeling that it boasts a listening credit. We would like to thank those Members who have been closely following this issue in the relevant Commissions over the years and who have maintained contact with our territory. In the face of a movementism and a growing opposition of public opinion to the F-35 programme, the effort of our party, which is a governing party, is the argument of merit, the constant search for real data. Beyond the technical problems, we believe that the lack of technological sovereignty of the aircraft is a very important issue. So, compared with other European programmes which would also help to strengthen a line of defence of the European Community, is the choice of the F-35 really productive at the Italian and European economic and industrial level? It is all the more appropriate and necessary for the Italian Parliament to address these issues with the aim of verifying the F-35 programme with a view to developing the European defence dimension desired in the motion tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, in a shared perspective of rationalization of military spending in Italy and Europe, depending on the general economic and social context. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u52	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to dwell very much on the technical considerations that have emerged in the press and in information these days. Let's try to imagine for a moment a war situation in which the F-35 were actually used. This hypothetical scenario, however, should hardly occur if we respected Article 11 of our Constitution. Suppose, however, that in a time of difficulty our F-35 arrives to save the situation. Attention, however: we do war only if the weather is nice because with the humidity there would be takeoff and landing problems. In fact, let's do it with good weather and not too high temperature, if we want to be sure that our planes do not encounter additional difficulties. In fact, let's only do it against planes similar to ours because all the other models could knock us down with too much simplicity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is not logical. This is ridiculous. But war is not ridiculous: war is horrible, it is illogical. Let's remember that. These choices are meaningless to us and have been so since the initial decision to join a technically questionable program that seems to endanger the same drivers: our children, the children of the Homeland. But are human lives considered calculated? Where? In item "costs' or in item "predictables'? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] A project the result of who knows which ideas and economic agreements not acceptable, of exaggerated costs and inappropriate in this period of total structural crisis. An inexpensive project even from the point of view of economic and technological return in collaboration with the main competitor of the same sector. On 26 June last, the Chamber of Deputies approved a motion aimed at strict control of the project, but without the courage to permanently interrupt the operation with the prerogative of not proceeding to any further phase of acquisition without Parliament having expressed itself on the merits, pursuant to Article 4 of Law No 244 of 31 December 2012. We speak of lack of courage because in your motions we find used the terms "-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The terms we would like to find should instead be: "stop", "stop", "close", "definitely." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Gentlemen, this is not the Government of doing, this is the Government of extending, deferring, delaying, delaying. Stop! Come on, my senators, have the courage to renew yourselves, have the courage to change course! As if that were not enough, at its meeting on 3 July the Supreme Council of Defence, which is nothing more than a body of information and advice from the President of the Republic, expressed itself by giving the Government responsibility for decisions on the matter. In our view, this is yet another degradation of Parliament's prerogatives, delegitized in its choices. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, why aren't you at least irritated? Was it not in your motion that you would immediately suspend or discontinue Italian participation in the programme? Dream or am I awake? Are we still in a Republic? In a parliamentary republic? Is it not Parliament that is sovereign, given the central role assigned to it by our Constitution? I do not wish, my colleagues, that we had all given up and committed ourselves to a subordinate role. This is not logical. That is unacceptable. The new defence model, despite the abolition of compulsory conscription and the reduction of staff and structures, has led to an increase in military spending over these two decades. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the face of heavy cuts in education, university and health care, military spending is the only public spending that is constantly growing. In these two decades the savings for staff cuts have been reversed into new and very expensive weapon systems. That is why we believe it is necessary - as the other NATO countries, such as Canada and Great Britain, have done - to review the purchase programme for the F-35, which is too expensive and incompatible with the vocation of peace that our country should have. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Come on, my senators: have the courage to bring about the change that the country asks of you! We are called to a choice, an act of discernment. The discernment must be implemented considering all the alternatives generated by the conditions to the contour. Do we or do we not want to admit that the context of the last fifteen years has changed? Then, in any complex problem, where the surrounding conditions change, the solutions also change. The solutions then must no longer be the same as they are now, they cannot! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, with the motion of the 5 Star Movement we ask you not to change the ideas, not to take steps back, but to assess that the situation as a whole has changed and, therefore, also its solution has changed. We can not spend 13 billion euros on the purchase of these aircraft when in Italy almost half of the school buildings does not possess the certifications of agibilità [[Applause from the M5S Group]] More than 65 percent do not have a fire prevention certificate and 36 percent of buildings need urgent maintenance. This is not logical. It's disconcerting. Today's Italy doesn't have the problem of choosing holidays. Families have the problem of work. Family fathers can't support their children. Italy is now close to the point of no return. If we want weapons, then we use what Nelson Mandela recommends: education is the most powerful weapon that can change the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, I take advantage of the opportunity given to me by the current discussion to recall an unelegant epithet addressed to our Group only a few days ago by a representative of the Government. I'm talking about the semantic deficiency. Dear colleagues, Etymologically speaking, from Latin, it means missing something, missing something. Well, this being a moron can be in our case an opportunity, a new and not a hypocritical way of dealing with fundamental issues, free from all legacy and conditioning. We are citizens who are not familiar with the usual mix of business and politics, and we are proud of it. This lack for us is not a handicap, it is a disabled being [[Applause from the M5S Group]] in understanding and analysing the mechanisms that keep us away from a blind and deaf world before the real needs of Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are not stupid: the right term is new, renewing, for a Republic of citizens and not for a Republic of wise consultants, all too often relegated to the surrogate and improper use of the power that is incumbent on Parliament. That's who we are. [[Some Senators of the M5S Group hold sheets bearing on the back expressions of opposition to Italy's participation in the F-35 programme.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u54	Excuse me, Senator, if I'm interrupting, but I have to invite the Senators of your Group to lower the sheets they have in their hands. Only the speaker can keep them. No cartels are allowed in the Chamber. I realize that it is the back of the papers you have just read, but only the speaker can keep them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u55	That's who we are. We seek our interests in the interests of all and not the interests of all in our interests. This is where the real deficiency lies: it is in a Parliament that is missing and therefore lacking in its institutional and democratic prerogatives, only dedicated to the approval of the acts of a Government that is equally lacking and devoted to the static maintenance of an im-pos-si-bile political balance, as evidenced by the way in which Parliament has so far addressed the issue of arms reduction and the singular response of the Government. I would like to stress that this is not a Assembly of morons, but it is certainly a Assembly of morons, always semantic. Melius abundare quam deficere. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I shall end with one last respectful tribute to Madiba: "Peace is not a dream, it can become a reality, but to guard it you must be capable of dreaming." I too, Mr President, have a dream in my little one: the dream of passing through the streets and of being indicated not as the one who has parliamentary immunity, but as a parliamentary humanity. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Gambaro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u56	Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u57	Mr President, Minister, I would like to inform my colleague in the 5 Star Movement that parliamentary immunity has been gone for a long time, so none of us now, passing through the streets, is likely to be insulted about that: they insult us for other things, this is no longer a current insult. It is difficult to speak in this debate, Mr President, because we have heard some good ones: I believe that the demagogy fair in this House has reached its peak in this debate. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] It is very easy, in a crisis like the one that our country is living today, to make an easy equation: fewer planes, more kindergartens, more work. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] As if an approved parliamentary motion would determine this. We all know that's not the case, and you should know it too. These are choices that, at the appropriate time, will eventually pass within the budget that the Senate and the House will approve. Today we are simply discussing, as has already been done in the Chamber of Deputies, a motion. The Group which I represent, together with so many in this House, has tabled the motion adopted by a large majority by the House of Members; that motion, in fact, suspends the programme for six months, putting any further acquisitions in the hands of Parliament, which did not happen before. The motion calls for the suspension of the programme in the light of what will be discussed at the European Council in December, that is, with regard to the start-up - we hope that this is why we are fighting and in our motion there is a commitment to the Government to do so - a process of integration of defence at European level. We do not discuss this. We are not discussing a motion tabled by the majority declaring war on some state or increasing the funds for defence or for the purchase of aircraft. In fact, we are the only state that has decreased military spending by 19% in the last nine years. We are the ones who spend the least in Europe. I think we should spend even less, and that is why we need the stage of reflection that we have opened. It is clear that everything depends on the continuation of the process of European defence integration. All of us can be pacifists to the excess: I too am for peace, but I understand that when we govern a State like Italy, within Europe, with what we represent on the European scene and, in particular, the Mediterranean, with everything that is happening in the Middle East and North Africa, we still need to have our own defence system. We cannot every time invoke, when necessary, the help of others, except then say that there is the intrusiveness of those who come to help us, especially the United States of America. The United States of America will weigh less and less if a process of defence integration continues at European level, in which we must participate. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that not only Italy, but also France and Great Britain, individually the European countries, in the face of China, Russia and the United States, have nothing to do with defence. Then we need an integrated European defence system, and this will be discussed at the European Council. The Senate has put to work three Commissions, of which are also members of the 5 Star Movement and SEL, in which we have started a survey of the European defence integration system in order to make a contribution to the Government in view of the December appointment. During the hearings we started, I did not hear the things I heard in this House today. It is clear that if an integration process continues at European level, Italy will have to participate with the resources that we as a country will have to put in, because we cannot expect others to defend us. A country must have a defence system, and if it is true, as you say, that in the Constitution it says that Italy repudiates war, it also says in the Constitution that we must have a defence system to defend our homeland. The integrated European defence system is the landing place to which, with the approval of the motion tabled by us, we are going, in order to reduce expenditure and to have six months to re-examine and examine the project for the purchase of the F-35s that this Parliament will be able to do, with greater knowledge of the facts, in the coming months. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u58	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reasoning on the motions before us calls for the necessary reflections on the relationship between the use of arms and the management of democracy and the universal principle of the freedom of peoples. This argument cannot fail to fully investigate the long-standing debate on the legal interpretation of Article 11 of the Constitution: "Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes," says the first period. The logical correspondence between the use of sophisticated weapons and the will to offend or to war I don't think can be susceptible to different interpretations: we use weapons to dominate, in a theatre of war, inside or outside our territorial borders, an eventual enemy, or instill terror, and therefore in the form of deterrent power. The accession from 1996 onwards, which took place in 1998, to the Joint Strike Fighter programme in secondary partnership with seven other countries with the U.S. Armed Forces, clearly contrasts us with the spirit of the article mentioned above from the outset of the agreement. However, some may object that there is the second period of Article 11, which reads as follows: "allows, on a level playing field with other States, the limitations of sovereignty necessary for a system ensuring peace and justice between nations; promotes and favours international organisations aimed at this purpose." It would be useful in this case for someone to explain how the use of weapons that have the ability to carry on their wings of atomic missiles is somehow compatible with the promotion of international organizations that ensure peace and justice among nations! Once we examine this premise of law, a new starting point for reflection, this time of merit, comes from the various international military reports on the efficiency and reliability of such death machines. Australian, Danish, Turkish, Norwegian, British (historically not the last arrivals in terms of war skills, and in particular military aviation) have exposed, publicly, vulnerabilities and obvious criticalities about the effectiveness and the hold not only in the battle of the F-35, but also in the simple flights of test and reconnaissance (excessive catalysation to lightning, little space for the helmet pilots, slow engines), deciding to limit the production or to suspend the adhesion to the program waiting for more precise technical surveys. Canada has renounced its implementation of the Programme. The Pentagon itself noted that the costs and delays of the Programme may not justify its completion. I wonder why we Italians, where the public and institutional debate evolves towards extinction or, at least, the limitation of our military contribution, even for obvious reasons hindering spending review, in the territories of war that exist across borders, should fully implement the agreement on the purchase of aircraft and not decide to adopt alternative forms to the minimum of suspension or revisitation of the same in less exocated and less random terms. The third order of reasons why I am strongly opposed to the purchase of bombers is clearly of an economic and financial nature. It does not take an acute economist to understand that such excessive public expenditure for such a vague and useable project so possible and remote can be much more rationally converted into sectors or fields more sensitive, fragile and in need of urgent infrastructure interventions today in Italy. We speak every day of employment at the lowest historical levels, territories to be retrained to make them safe, competitive in production, welfare and tourism, of bankrupt corporate fabrics that need to be revived, entrepreneurial resources and brains that want to expatriate, territorial authorities, justice, health and education to be reformed, university research to be valued. And do we want to waste considerable means of strengthening arms? It does not convince, moreover, the eager defense of those who still believe in the race at "Risiko" of the war or of those who have interest to run in that direction. The fact that China, Russia, Iran, North Korea and others have exorbitant military ambitions and that they invest large parts of their wealth in weapons of mass destruction does not change their mind. It is certainly not the fear, to date completely unfounded (and in any case little would change otherwise, even with the F-35), of being militarily annihilated by these armies to have to impose us to modify our progressive and rationalistic criterion of looking at the world and prevent us from supporting the European project of a future of peaceful partnership among peoples. Other are the cultural and ideological springs that move the economies and expansionist strategies that are the basis of the war choices of these countries. Therefore, in the full sharing of the legislative intent of article 4 of law n. 244 of 2012, I declare absolutely contrary to the Italian participation in the Plan to realize the planes F-35. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u60	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to address the Minister, because I would like to thank you, and your Undersecretaries, for your attention to this House. Today's debate is the necessary point of reference for a debate on a complex and sensitive subject at the same time. An argument on which tensions and conjuncture seem to have been cleverly fomented more for political gain than for real financial needs. But let's go by order. What is being discussed in this motion is not limited to whether or not it is appropriate to spend a certain budget on the purchase of a military budget. It goes deeper: it clings to the responsibilities that our country has, to its commitment to be an active, responsible and coherent part of an international project of which it wanted to be, from the beginning, protagonist. Today we want and must give priority to this. The pseudo-pacifist exploitations or exasperated austerity have little to do with Italian participation in the F-35 implementation program. Of course, the reasoning that many people move in the direction of the inopportunity of such a massive expenditure for the State, given the moment and the financial difficulties of the country, is also understandable. It is possible to understand the reasons, which are among other things the same ones that have led to a reduction in the number of aeroplanes from 131 to 90. In this, however, it is difficult to grasp a real awareness of the consequences that could have the withdrawal of Italy from the project, not only in terms of international political credibility or coherence of the country, but also and above all economic reflections that a possible step back could result, due to the loss of orders for Italian industries and the exponential burdens that would result from the withdrawal from the project. But critics, in their statements, are well away from dealing with these aspects. However, we are very pleased to discuss them in the appropriate forums about the cost-opportunity equation, which seems to have never found room in the debates. Perhaps because, faced with such reasoning, the articulated castle of demagogic euphoria would fail that for months - if not for years - it feeds the critics' front, and that it pours uncontrolledly also on civil society, fomenting anger and bad moods that at the moment seem to be really inappropriate. But right now, confusing the two levels - the demagogy and the maintenance of a commitment - risks being deleterious and not very effective for the future of the country: not only because there would be a lack of respect for the citizens, who are not really informed about the real dynamics of the project and its aspects of alleged criticality; but also and above all because they risk blocking the economic, scientific and military potentials underlying this project. Adding the program as an unconstitutional flaw of analytical superficiality as well as of detachment with a reality that Italy has intended to take care of. Just as Minister Mauro recalled a few days ago, the heart of the problem lies in a question: is it possible to arm the reasons for peace, the reasons set out in our Constitution? And it is very likely that around this dilemma all the fantasies that have led to today's debate have been built. We must remember that peace is also defence; peace is also deterrent, especially in a tentacular and complex geopolitical scenario such as the present one. Playing a proactive and active role in the international scenario, taking on certain commitments and never subtracting from the responsibilities that derive from them, is in this direction. And Italy cannot afford any step backwards at this delicate stage, especially when it comes to the common European defence project. As some recalled, in December 2013 the European Union will come back to reflect on the subject of European defence and on the shared will to shape a political project built around it, which we hope will be more responsive and, consequently, more effective in a changing scenario. And certainly, from the perspective of Brussels it will be possible to come back to thinking about the opportunity of the F-35 programme with a different approach, an approach that we cannot afford now. That's because times aren't ripe. In fact, it is in everyone's eyes that the European Union's foreign policy does not have the strength to impose itself in an international scenario, and that therefore must go through a path of building a new strategic military plan of operation that can revive the ultimate goal of European integration, namely peace, thinking of a joint army and common defence project, for example. Only in this perspective can we allow ourselves to overcome the demagogic and superficial criticism of those who angryly accuse the F-35 project. Starting from these premises, the renewal of the national military instrument, which also consists in the acquisition of the new F-35, which, as has been widely pointed out, will replace aircraft that, from the technological and strategic point of view, are not very effective also because they are dated. And as is easy to imagine, their permanence could pose a risk to our men more than an added value. The awareness of this led to the F-35 programme already at the end of the 1990s, a program to which it intended to join a parterre of countries with the aim of creating around the technological avant-garde and scientific research new defence and security tools for the international scenario. A noble commitment - let me say this - that from the outset had the priority of combining the demands for peace with research and development, in a European way, creating economy and innovation and strengthening the commitment of our country, where Europe is the scene of this renewed commitment. It is precisely on this point that we must focus our attention, so that we no longer talk about the commitment of the individual state, but about European commitment, so as to overcome the critical political and social speculations and speculations of the individual countries, increasing the effectiveness of initiatives and measures to guarantee the security of the region. In this phase of building the European identity of defence, Italy's commitment to the hot fronts, the recognition of the value of our military and security forces actively engaged in areas devastated by war and terrorism, become part of this project, a project that deserves respect and attention. We want to give our Armed Forces the means to ensure their security and we cannot possibly think of compromising their implementation in the name of demagogic speculation that Italy will first and foremost be the victim of. Therefore, the future of the country and of Europe all cannot rotate around the anti-F-35 demagogy; it must be based on understanding, on project analysis and on the possible possibilities to modify and monitor it over time and quality. This is a commitment that politics must make towards the country and its role, but always starting from the awareness that we are building a new European identity. At this point it would be desirable for critical voices to promote alternative projects or proposed modifications rather than to perch behind a supposed pacifism that knows of ancient times and has little to do with the present reality. Faced with the global challenges, be concrete. Put aside the effective phrases and the invectives against the superpowers, which do not even create consensus. Think of what your children's future is, at what level of security we can aspire to and what instruments we can guarantee and then maybe talk about it together, only when the small demagogy has left room for political maturity. Faced with the temptation of ideological positions, one must be able to look beyond putting the general interest and the potential of a not distant future at the centre, aiming at the project of European defence through which it will be possible to review the effectiveness of the Italian military instrument and adapt it to the new perspectives. On this we concentrate our energies and stop calling into question testimonies of convenience, in a rhetoric of politics that sometimes shows itself far from the facts. Politics must have the courage to be responsible. I close by making my own the words of a great man: peace is a gift to be invoked, it is a goal to be built. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u62	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u63	Mr President, rockets or bombs, the result does not change, Idriss and Ahmad, eight years in two. This is at the bottom - I say - the damn reality of war, its monstrosity. That's it. I run through the hospital records: twenty-four wounded in Charikar, eight boys, seven wounded in Kapisa, four children. All (...) Civil. How can anyone fail to understand that this is war (...)? I wish there was one of the Members of Parliament who voted for the war. And that he would explain to Ahmad Froh and Idriss that it is right for them to be treated like this because a military coalition has decided to "defeat terrorism" by bombing their yard and market. Bomb him. Words of Gino Strada. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are talking about. We're talking about bomb fighters, warplanes, attack planes. ==References====External links== Let's remember that. Let us put these words in our minds. (at 19.22) (Follows MARTON). Shouldn't our magnificent Article 11 of the Constitution protect us and our neighbor from these things? Italy repudiates war. Friend Lorenzo has already mentioned this, like many others. I will not repeat his words, I would stress only his remarks: we repudiate the war and buy bombers capable of transporting and releasing nuclear devices. That these arguments do not break in and do not convince you to abandon the project F-35 has taught us what happened in the House. Then let's try to reason in money: the only argument that is really important to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] How would you spend 14 billion euros if you had them available? We tell you; you always remind us of every proposal. Are schools insecure? Shameful, but the money's missing. Do we create a fund for small businesses? You can't. Do we set up citizenship income? Where are we gonna find the money? It's a continuous mantra now. We abandon this crazy project right away and the money will be there. But is there anyone who can tell me how the other states will react to our war shopping? Have you thought about it? Or perhaps this is the real objective: to trigger a wild arms purchase race to favor the lobby of the builders? We in the 5 Star Movement are against the waste of money, war and these goddamn bombers. Vote against our motion. You will explain to the Italians in difficulty, to the entrepreneurs who are about to close their businesses, to the artisans and traders who unfortunately, for them, the money is not there. One more thing, Minister. You said a sentence that I think will go down in history and I don't know how it will be evaluated: To love peace, we must arm peace. Do you have children? Try to put a gun in his son's hand and tell him: "Go to school and make peace with your companions"! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u65	Madam President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, over the years, Parliament has intervened in a very high number of circumstances to define Italy's position on crucial issues relating to international security. Parliament's decisions on the organisation of our armed forces, as well as the resources to be allocated to them, have been equally frequent over time. The many elements of uncertainty that characterize the geostrategic framework do not allow to exclude that, even in the near future, the need for an immediate availability of military capabilities suitable for the performance of tasks that, abroad and in Italy, can be assigned, at least at notice, to the Armed Forces. It follows that Parliament, while acting on the part of the armed forces in international missions, has a clear responsibility to ensure that they are adequately equipped to deal with the existing threat. It is obvious that this process of modernisation must be forward-looking. It takes over ten years to design and build a modern combat aircraft. They are not products that can be acquired when needed. Therefore, we have not only the responsibility to decide whether or not to go, with our armed forces, in international security missions, we also have the responsibility to allow Parliament in the years to come to be sovereignly able to choose whether or not to engage in international conflict management intervention. In order for that choice to be effective, we must, today, ensure a process of modernization of military equipment that is stable and projected forward. For many decades now, the availability of the aero-tactic component of the Armed Forces has been crucial to the success of any defence strategy, whether it is a deterrent to aggression or the imposition of measures aimed at restoring peace and security in the international system. Over the course of all the most significant conflicts of recent years, the aero-tactic component has played a central role in the conduct of operations, sometimes being able to resolve the military phase of the clash and providing, in any case, a fundamental contribution to the operations. The aero-tactic component of the Italian Armed Forces is now made up of departments equipped with aircraft designed even in the 1970s and introduced into service in the 1980s. Part of the aircraft acquired have been lost over the years, due to the normal operational degradation that characterizes all military equipment. Other aircraft have been disbarred in view of the technical obsolescence and the uneconomic nature of any modernisation programmes. Periodic updates have however been implemented on a part of the overall fleet, allowing still the employment. For this reason, in view of the approaching end of the operating life of the current aircraft, Italy has selected the aircraft F-35 as a system able to replace the Tornado and AMX of the Air Force and even the AV-8B of the Navy, achieving both an adaptation of the operating capacities to the current needs, and a significant reduction of the costs. In contrast to the 254 machines acquired in the past, it is expected to acquire only 90 F-35 aircraft in two sub-versions, 60 F-35A and 30 F-35B, to be assigned to the Armed Forces. Through its industrial participation in the F-35 programme, Italy is gaining a return in terms of the involvement of our technological and productive system, directly related to the degree of competence and competitiveness that it is and will be able to express in a global competitive environment. In fact, in addition to ensuring a strong involvement of the national industry in the assembly of the aircraft, FACO is perfectly suited to becoming a center for the maintenance and updating of aircraft in service, not only in the Italian Armed Forces, but also among European users and in the Mediterranean region. Thanks to the involvement of our industrial system, both the big industry and the small and medium-sized reality, widespread throughout the national territory, Italy is already receiving an important return, both technological and employment. The F-35 programme is very important because, at last, it allows us to support industrial activities of very high technological content. If we decide to stop this programme, then we will assume a huge responsibility to the next generations, because we would have foreclosed so many opportunities for growth and highly qualified work for the next generations. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u66	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u67	Madam President, I believe that today's debate is affected by the absence, now more than ten years ago, of a serious and shared debate on defence policy issues. Since 2002, with the debate on the document of the then Minister of Defence, Martino, from which the overcoming of the compulsory lever began, Parliament has no longer had the opportunity to adequately discuss the issue of what model of defence to adopt for the country, while our military instrument has been gradually redesigned in many of its components, also due to the changed geopolitical scenario and the emergence of the same economic crisis, which has deployed its substantial effects on public finance, especially since 2008. This is also the source of the difficult relationship with public opinion when it comes to examining - without prejudice - the issues relating to the military sector and the operation of our defence system. As we can often see, the only dimension of international obligations, our contribution to the assumption of precise responsibilities of the international community for peace and stability, is not able to determine that necessary harmony between the institutional bodies and our citizens precisely in relation to the choices of military policy that the country, however, and, for it, the Defense, is called to assume. That is to say that, in the absence of an analysis of the aims that we intend to assign to our military instrument, without a clear explanation of the overall design, of the objective to which we are directed, to the most defense policy seems to move almost only by inertial push and to be, as well as often alludes, thanks to a hidden understanding between the military summits and some sectors of politics, deaf to the hearing of pacifist calls or simple guarantor of specific industrial interests. Well, this gap must be filled as soon as possible. From this point of view, the initiative put in place by the Democratic Party in the last parliamentary term has been constantly aimed at ensuring that Parliament could become the place for an in-depth and transparent debate on the new defence model to be implemented also within the framework of the same process of European integration. Throughout that parliamentary term, the PD Group proposed the establishment of a special bicameral committee with the aim of redefining the new defence model. This proposal was not practicable. Nevertheless, also thanks to our political positioning, we have reached, as is known, the approval of Law n. 244 of 2012, which among other things, I remember this figure, previews by 2024 a substantial decrease of the force employed, with the passage from the current 190,000 to 150,000 military. Even then in the absence of a comprehensive revision of the defence model, the path marked by law n. 244 offers the opportunity for a participated confrontation on the same transformation of the sector. A transformation already partially in place, considering that the Defense, like and perhaps more than other sectors of the public administration, is involved in the processes previewed from the so-called spending review. From this point of view, it is useful to remember that Italian defence spending has suffered a substantial contraction over the last decade, reaching the double figure in percentage terms, falling well below the European average of the sector. To signify the scope of the law delegation n. 244, it suffices to mention the main points: rationalization and redevelopment of military expenditure; revision of the staff of civil and military personnel; revision of the organizational and administrative structure of the Defense. From this point of view, therefore, it is well understood that the provisions of December 2012 put in fact the theme of a possible recalibrate of our military instrument, both from the point of view of the financial resources made available and as regards the technical and operational structure. A possible recalibrate to be carried out, as mentioned above, taking into account the radical change in the geopolitical scenario, as well as the process of integrating European defence, which will have an important place of discussion at the next European Council in December. We are therefore in the presence, Madam President, of objective regulatory and political conditions which can lead to a possible revision of the military instrument, without, by this means, delaying the prerogatives of the institutional bodies concerned, in particular the Commission and Parliament. This is the approach to be taken: to consider the whole of the issues in order to better direct any decision relating to the possible revision of our military instrument, which can only be fully accomplished with the possible redefinition of our defence model. The Parliament remains the seat where every framework decision will have to be taken and where it will be possible to develop every useful and necessary deepening also with regard to the acquisition of weapon systems, second and in application of the procedure rewritten, as is known, from the same law n. 244 of 2012, in particular to articles 2, paragraph 1, letter and ), and 4. On the subject of the F-35, therefore, it is right to point out that the implementation of a phase of study, study and evaluation of the project is very much in line with what has been represented so far. Four years after the opinions expressed on the subject by the competent Chamber and Senate Defence Commissions, Parliament's further commitment can therefore be a useful opportunity to better support any evaluation of this specific programme, given the extensive and articulated technical and operational implications of the financial nature and industrial policy underlying the implementation of the project. I mean, a little healthy reformism and less demagogy! [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u68	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u69	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the last two speeches by my fellow Members, Mr Gualdani and Mr Pegorer, have reminded us, with great precision and without rhetorical frills, of the spirit and working method connected with Law 244 of 2012. It is, however, a law which Parliament does not seem to be able to transpose or deserve, because the centrality of Parliament must be managed through discussions worthy of the idea of Parliament. From this point of view, in the parliamentarism of our time every legitimate nostalgia of the parliaments in which butter and cannon were opposed, the Turati and De Amicis, then Sandro Pertini (when instead of cannons were Euro-missiles), does not facilitate the acquisition of the centrality of Parliament. At some point in our discussion, I believe that a colleague of the Democratic Party, Senator Lucherini, has done well to recall an impeccable fact, among other things, I believe derived from a document of the center " Stockholm international peace research institute ", anything but pro-Atlantic and anti-Pacifist. According to this center, military spending in Italy would be reduced by 5.2 percent between 2011 and 2012 and even by 19 percent between 2003 and 2012 (it was the time period that Mr Pegorer took into consideration just now, recalling the years spent by the then Minister of Defence Antonio Martino's report). That is, that of our country is by far the greatest reduction, the only two-digit reduction, found among the Western countries. This serves to keep, as far as possible, the arguments of such easy demagogy and even of some vulgarity out of play. Allow me to say very frankly to Senator Marton that his conclusion on the son of the Minister of Defence with the gun in his hand seemed to me no less wrinkled than the words spoken in a meeting by another colleague, on whom today's sitting began. But let us prescind from all this and try, as Senators Gualdani and Pegorer have been able to do, to place these motions within two deadlines: one is that of European defence, the next European Council in December 2013, and the other - I address in particular my colleagues on the left, today's PD - is that of the great degasperian defeat of 1953, when the French Parliament (President of the Mendès-France Council) did not have enough pride and courage to put the question of trust on the subject of the European Defence Community. De Gasperi even died of pain and I am sure that in the sensitivity of a degasperian of at least three successive generations, the friend Minister of Defence, this is a constant concern, which led him to find a tiring mediation, three weeks ago, in the Chamber of Deputies and imposes a further step on him in the Senate today. Colleagues from the Left, colleagues from the Democratic Party, I do not want to be a jackal and I will never be a jackal on internal matters. It is clear that there is a component of pacifism, anti-Americanism, anti-Westernism, who is in the government of the country. But you cannot bypass the fact that here we start from a story that begins with one of your founding fathers, when minister of defense was not the liberal-liberal Antonio Martino, but a man of social Catholicism, Beniamino Andreatta: both had those categories of Westernism, of Europeanism as another face of Atlanticism and not of one to play ping - pong against the other. And so, from this point of view, our Group fully supports the motion tabled by Senator Zanda, Senator Schifani, Senators of Civic Choice and on which there is also the signature of our leader Ferrara. We hope it will be approved. We hope that it will be able to honour that centrality of Parliament which does not honour that parliamentary attitude at Trotsky: the permanent criticality in the name of the values of peace. This is rhetoric of manner and not always of good taste. However, there is no escape, with a difficulty with regard to its history, by speeding up some motions of inappropriate mistrust before an inquiry requested by the President-in-Office of the Council has been made. This is no reason to fail, whatever the mode of voting, the vote of our Group in favour of the motion of Senator Zanda, but we do so without any tactics, with the same sentiments with which, when there were Prodi at Palazzo Chigi and D'Alema at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we took sides with the motions in defense of Atlanticism having as their object the American base of Vicenza and many others. And since we do not like tacticism, less than ever in defence policy, what sense does it have to oppose and delay, in the name of a kind of parliamentary trotskyism, a project that is still much more shared than what would be investing in aircraft without pilot, an argument that I have not heard from anyone? It would be a legitimate argument, even if I would not share it; but I already know the screams of Zionism, of Israelism and of what else would come from the same colleagues who may have abused in demagogy. It was their right, but it is equally our right to vote in favour of this motion and to hope that it will be transposed. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u70	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason I will support the suspension is not due to the fact that peace is protected by slingshots or bows and arrows. It has never happened in history, neither recent nor distant: peace is defended with the instruments of diplomacy and many times has protected it, in history, even with weapons. There are two reasons and they are therefore of a different nature. The first reason is linked to the consideration that governing is to choose, as Mendès-France claimed. Italy, with the collapse and difficulties of its public spending and with its state of extraordinary difficulty, is obliged to choose, not being able to face a plurality of commitments made over time. The priorities for building consensus and building parliamentary credibility must therefore be better defined. Then there is a different reason, which is instead of military order. Before even debating it in the Italian Parliament, and today in the Senate, it was raised by countries that had undertaken, before us, stronger commitments than the Italian Government had assumed, and it is linked to the question whether it is still an appropriate programme - the one we are discussing, Minister - and whether it is a programme that is linked to the future or, instead, a step in the near future. They asked for it and made this question his truth three major issues related to countries that have signed with us - indeed, they have signed before us - even more binding commitments. First issue: most of the countries that belong to NATO - we already know - will no longer adopt these aircraft. The second issue involves a primary partner of NATO and Europe, Great Britain, which drastically cuts this spending commitment. Then there is an objective reason, which concerns Italy, which has a commitment, in the purchase of the aircraft we are discussing, not yet formalized. Senator Di Biagio has rightly called us to discuss the subject in concrete terms. I remind Senator Di Biagio - I do so willingly - that the facts that I have now recalled, these three facts, are objective facts that should be kept before us before taking any and all other decisions. I would add - and I confirm a position that I know is dear to the Minister who follows this debate - that we must move in concert with a Community position, and therefore in concert with a shared position in Europe. That is why I will support the thesis of suspending to review and investing in a shared project within European defence. The last note, on the other hand, I would like to stress it by linking it to those lawyers who are far too hasty and excessively realistic who have (but it is my opinion) badly advised the President of the Republic. I do this by reminding us and them that the Senate of the Republic has never been and is not (at least not since 1948) a sort of consulium regis : it is a body that has its autonomy, that is part of the Italian Parliament and that behaves in full and in perfect freedom. First of all, I would like to point out that it is up to Parliament to define budgetary coverage: it is up to us and only us, not another body provided for in the Italian Constitution. Secondly, it is up to Parliament, as is stated in the motion, to define the 'what', the 'how' and the 'when', as is the case with all sovereign bodies, with sovereign power. If in my university experience I had taken an exam by answering the criterion used by those lawyers, my booklet, as a great teacher said that I had the chance to have, Professor Cheli, would - as he claimed - fly from the third room with a window of the classroom of the faculty of political science "Cesare Alfieri" of Florence [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u72	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly take less than the ten minutes I have been given because I share many of the speeches made by previous speakers, especially the Mixed and Mixed-SEL Groups, but not only. I also share the views of all those who have supported their reasons, not in ideological, albeit legitimate terms, but in trying to reconstruct an affair that has been committed by the Italian Parliament for some time, for years and which have shown how badly this affair has been born. Our group, together with others, could be saved by simply saying that we were not present, we were not represented in Parliament, but I believe that this would really be the maximum damage that we could cause in a very decisive step that we should take, starting today. Obviously it will not be an exhaustive passage, but it can and must put the Senate and Parliament everything, in their autonomy, in the conditions of starting an absolutely different and alternative path, otherwise we risk a bad story going on worse. In fact, we are talking about a means, dear and dear colleagues, which is blatantly offensive. We avoid climbing the mirrors, because it is inevitable that the noise is heard outside of these classrooms, in the country and internationally. Even many military circles support a characteristic of offensive danger and this can appear dramatically a dangerous contradiction not only for those who suffer it, but also for those who use it. There are other priorities that also emerge from the military environments, linked both to the defence system in general and to the security of our military. This activity is not neutral, it is not free from costs. But I do not want to anticipate what I will then specify. Even in the field of military expenditure, this possible commitment will mean that no other measures relating to the defence of our soldiers will be taken. It has not been remembered, and on the contrary I would like to do so. In the present situation we have departments placed in the theatres of war in which they are, personally and politically, opposed to being present. In any case, our troops are there and must be put in the best security conditions: choices such as the one under consideration, which affect the same chapter, but they will prevent it. In recent years we have touched the living flesh of the weakest classes: this is not demagogy, but the dramatic story of the last two or three years. We cannot afford to touch on essential resources which must - they cannot: they must - be committed to fundamental emergencies. Let us forget the considerations - yes of an ideological nature - about an international plot, the anti-Americanism that would lodge in the ranks of a certain left. Don't worry: if it were done by anyone this means would be stigmatized by us absolutely the same way, albeit more so, even if it were supported by the same or contrary political side. It's not an ideological issue. On the contrary, I would like to invite those who have linked this element to a possible consensus. I would like to draw attention to one point by some senators who say that pacifism no longer brings votes: it is bitter the consideration you have made. Not only does it not convince, but it shifts everything from merit to the dramatic purchase of votes. We would be against war and in favour of peace even if we were to be alone: let this be clear. What we say is something else: today we say that we are in a situation - Italy system and Europe system, as we are told with a chant - where a choice presupposes the impossibility of practicing others, even on the living flesh of our country. Together with other MPs of the Democratic Party, Friday I went to visit the most important fire department in Rome and a large area of our country, based in Capannelle. The workers make a heartfelt appeal: the few resources available do not allow us to face the upcoming season of great drought and bearer, unfortunately, of numerous fires, since there are no more adequate, operational means. Paradoxically this also applies to relatively recent means, because by now the lack of resources has hit the initial levels, i.e. the workshops, so a trivial failure to a relatively young medium blocks it and makes it unusable. I remember that we have before us the remaining part of July, August and September and I am talking about the firefighters who, from inside, warn us that they will not be able to guarantee essential safety. Perhaps a few hundred thousand euros would suffice, which could become a few million on a national scale, to cope with any tragedies that may affect our country. That's what we're talking about. A few days ago, last month, we did not give the answers at least sufficient to the earthquake emergencies of Abruzzo and Emilia Romagna. It is not demagogy: it is saying that we make choices or make others. If we are in full responsibility, as everyone has been reminded, contrary to some interpretations of Law n. 244 of 2012, if we are in full and sovereign autonomy, then let's exercise it; otherwise it would be doubly serious if, in this situation, we, deaf to all the observations and all the criticalities, proceed to a low head or talk about a future in which a debate will have to take place. That is why a debate is a statement by Parliament. It is important that, in a debate like this, a clear address can be channeled or introduced. Otherwise, from now until the debate that you have announced and that some motions undertake to carry out, every time you oppose the mark of Article 81 of the Constitution we will remind you: we will remind you to make this debate and to make some coherent decisions on it. On fundamental values there can be no negotiation, there can be no realpolitik: it has already done too much damage, it has caused too many mourning and ruins. Let's get rid of slavery - let's say - of the powerful arms lobby. It takes courage: Obama is exercising this courage, we cannot miss it. Do not tell us that it does not bring votes, because peace must be there, without if and without but, above all, without however. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u74	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u75	Madam President, there is no doubt that our country has never gone through, except in the first and second post-war years, such difficult times for the economy, for the management of the ordinary public budgets, but also for those of Italian families. At a time like this, talking about important figures invested in defence undoubtedly raises so many questions: are they necessary? Are there areas to which priority should be given, to which these resources should be addressed? Undoubtedly these visions are all legitimate and all worthy to receive attention. However, if we do not just want to ride the issue demagogically, we have to ask ourselves a few questions. What is defense today? In a context like the present, defense is no longer seen as an organization of armies defending the sacred patricians borders. Today, for the most part, there are inter-force operations under supranational egides (European, NATO or even the UN) in which the various components of the defences of each individual state participate within the limits of the capabilities and contributions they can make to the operations. Operations of what kind? The first great enemy of the West today is an invisible enemy: it is international terrorism. You have to stop him where he forms, organizes himself, trains himself, because when he's at your house you don't see him anymore and suffer only harmful and bloody acts. The second type of operation concerns the management of regional chessboards. The Mediterranean is the hottest regional chessboard that exists at this time: there is a civil war in Libya; we know the suffering that Egypt is going through; Syria is in full turmoil. I mean, what do we do? Can you watch, hoping that everything will remain within more or less national boundaries? There is a need to have defense organizations at this point able to cope with these situations, which are of internal danger even if fought perhaps at tens of thousands of kilometers. To do this you must have an organization. One thing is certain, and it is not demagogy: we have the oldest flying vehicles that exist; we have 30 years old, another 40 years old, and having to fight, having to participate in interforce operations, we risk being put in a corner because not only are we not useful, but we would almost become not the rescuers but those to be helped, as means of a certain old age do not give the guarantees they should give. Therefore, there is a need for modernisation of our means; there is a need to ensure security for our military. Then there is the political will - this can be discussed - whether to be part of that component of countries that have a certain political and economic weight or if this does not interest, and everyone does his own business. This project involves the largest industrialized countries of the globe: United States of America, Canada, Australia, Great Britain, as well as Norway, Turkey, Holland. Italy's role, for the first time, is not a compressive actor, but perhaps, after the Americans, we have the most important role in this project. Why am I talking about project? Because you can decide two things: whether you want a good or you buy it or you decide to build it. We could also decide to go and buy planes from those who produce them, or pool this important joint venture of great forces, states that have a considerable military defence tradition, and in this project participate in the realization with our defence companies. That was the choice, which is now more than ten years old, and stopping it now seems to be unclear. Never before has Italy been so actively involved. We have three factories in Italy that will participate in this project: Alenia di Nola (Naples), Alenia di Foggia and especially Alenia Aermacchi di Cameri. For now we are talking about a project that will give 1,500 new jobs, but that will reach more than 10,000 with the repercussions and the involvement of many Italian industries of extraordinary capacity, at very high, and not high (some have questioned it) added value, which invest a lot in research, bringing Italian prestige, but above all Italian work. More than 4,000 of these aircraft will be built. Well, we don't have this force (in Cameri we will probably be able to produce about two planes a month), but in Italy we will make fuselages and wings, which are perhaps the most important components of this vehicle. More: in Cameri there will be in fact the final assembly (the FACO) of all these planes and the center of maintenance for all the planes that will be sold in Europe to the Marines and the Aeronauticals. We must change all the Harriers of the Navy, the AMX and the Tornados, at least those who have spent the thirty years of life. When it comes to bombers already in the ear something doesn't sound very good, but if we want to remember what happened in Libya, Italian participation was very important; with our planes, with our bombers we did only one thing: we knocked out their radio system; we brought Libya to its knees by annihilating its communications. That's what planes are for today. We don't always have to think about bloody events. It is likely that, as this is a fifth-generation aircraft, there will hardly be planes that will pass as a concept what we are talking about, but it is likely that we will come to build aircraft much, much more expensive, that will not be driven by a person, but will be driven remotely. Drones exist: for now they are still small and have limited functions, but this will be the way. We will have to be even more willing to spend, to invest even more, but to ensure that there will be no more lives at risk. Therefore the question, if we want to be correct and honest, must be this: does Italy need an army? First question. Does Italy need an air force? Second question. If so, we must also be up to date, both in the times and in the alliances and in what is being asked. Otherwise, and that is the political choice, we can also decide to do what we do in Switzerland. We believe, in conclusion, that of all the positions expressed, the only one that can be supported is that contained in motion 1-00107, with as the first signatories Senators Zanda and Schifani, and signed by the vast majority of the political groups, to which I ask to add my personal signature, together with that of all the senators of the Northern League Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u76	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, understandably, the very serious economic crisis in which the country is fighting has given more force to the forces calling for a reduction in military spending. Less understandable is the campaign against the production and acquisition of combat aircraft which, in a drastically reduced number, will have to replace as many as three types of systems that have been in service for decades and whose maintenance in decent operating conditions is becoming increasingly costly and more problematic, especially considering that only one year has passed since the parliamentary debate on military aircraft F-35, during which the Monti Government communicated the decision to reduce the number of aircraft that Italy intends to buy from 131 to 90 and Parliament rejected requests for suspension and cancellation of the program. A campaign that is difficult to understand, first of all because only one of the DOD's investment programmes appears to be under consideration. Coherence would like anti-militarist and pacifist circles to consider, and possibly question, other types of military spending. The ideological bias clearly shows that the acquisition, as written in the text of a motion, would risk compromising disarmament policies. It would be interesting to know which military development programme is compatible with disarmament. If that is the objective, we should propose the dismantling of the Armed Forces and not the cancellation of one of the acquisition programs. A campaign that is difficult to comprehend, secondly, because the financial argument is based on the assumption, totally unfounded, that there are, somewhere today, in the defense coffers 15 billion earmarked for the F-35 that could be diverted to socially more desirable programs (such as school building or kindergartens) and that the lack of resources for the school and the territory is linked to an excessive expenditure for the acquisition of defence materials, when, on the other hand, this expenditure has a total impact of less than 0.5 percent on the total annual expenditure of the State and reduce further a chapter of expenditure so small would not allow to improve the hydrogeological estate of the territory and, in return, would have disastrous consequences on the national defense system. It goes without saying that a transparent and informed public debate can only improve the quality of arms choices, provided, however, that the issue is addressed without the ideological prejudices that dominate the current debate. If one starts from the belief that the possession of defence materials is immoral, as has been said, it is not possible an objective evaluation of the opportunity to adhere to a program. However, the debate serves, especially if it considers that a careful review of the military instrument as a whole is under way, aimed at defining the needs in the current and reasonably foreseeable strategic framework, in order to have what is needed not only and not so much at national level, but also in view of a future, even if not near, process of integration of European defence. A review aimed at reshaping our Armed Forces, although reduced in numbers, so as to have a balanced instrument in all its capabilities and components, usefully usable in support of foreign and national policy. There are a number of things to be clarified at political level, starting from the exact definition of the military instrument of which the country must be endowed and its objectives, as Minister Mauro himself acknowledged, also in view of the European Council next December, which for the first time will also meet in the Defence Ministers format. This involves an assessment of NATO's position and strength, which is now eroded by the slow US drift. It is a judgment on the European Union's reluctance to organise itself reliably in terms of security and defence, aggravated by the increasingly evident British tendency to derail itself from any Community commitment. It involves an assessment of the safety of energy sources and of the continuous balling of responsibility between NATO and the European Union, which would help to understand what two Italian maròs were doing 20 miles from the Indian coasts. It involves an assessment of the concepts on which the so-called responsibility to protect lies. Or have we forgotten her? Forget it would mean that we do not want peace; we simply want to be left in peace, which is something else. It would involve an assessment of the relationship between the true meaning of Article 11 of our Constitution and the use of the Armed Forces. As General Camporini wrote, Italy certainly does not prepare to attack anyone, but if it is to be able to defend and if it must, as prescribed in Article 11 of the Constitution, have the capacity, for example, to neutralize the rocket launch batteries that were beating Measured during the recent Libyan crisis, to ensure peace and justice between nations, it must have the ability, for example, to neutralize the batteries that beat Measured during the recent Libyan crisis. It's been a year. The argument that, being a system mainly conceived for the attack on the ground, would be in contradiction even with the constitutional dictation, confusing the political-strategic level with the purely tactical one, is inconsistent only that we consider also the second paragraph of Article 11. It is precisely the events of the Libyan crisis that should make us think: are high-tech military means useless and unusable? Are we sure that the international context remains the one in which the only use of the Armed Forces appeared that of peacekeeping missions, without having to resort to the forms of employment defined to high intensity? Are we sure that this context is not destined to change and has not already changed? It is also because we cannot deceive ourselves that tomorrow is the same as what is happening today. And in the absence of an ability to guarantee the troops on the ground air cover, Italy would see itself reduced to providing boots on the ground, the troops on the ground, to be made available to others, relying on the will of others to support and protect our units. The world is changing vortically, but a couple of things we know. We know for example that there are some historical constants destined to weigh for our country in any internal and international context. The first has to do with vulnerability and insecurity, due to the weak settlement and continuous instability of two compulsory sides of Italian foreign policy: the Balkan peninsula and the southern shore of the Mediterranean. The other constant, which has constituted and in many ways continues to be an answer to this first condition, is the anchoring to bilateral alliances or alliance systems with stronger actors, able to fill the security deficit, international and sometimes even internal. Thanks to this policy of alliances, Italy has achieved important objectives, starting with the same national unity. This policy also has costs, of course. Things are changing now. The economic crisis, the distribution of power on a global scale, the slow shift of the political, strategic and economic centre of gravity of the international system towards Asia, the increasing number of actors who have the temptation to focus their attention on the internal side of their country are determining the weakening of the multilateralist option, on which Italy founded its foreign policy after the trauma of the war, just today that the problems that weigh on security would be such as to require concerted responses, multilateral responses. This applies to the debt crisis as well as to the Syrian civil war. In view of the place Italy occupies in the hierarchy of power, there are no credible alternatives. For this reason, too, we should try to limit the damage caused by a disinformation campaign which has been carried out in these terms, instead encouraging a reflection which has an awareness of the implications and the costs involved. The vehicles for the attack on the ground, mentioned above, have already served our country in a limited way to strike military targets during the intervention in Kuwait, Kosovo, Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, to protect the civilian population, their new security forces and our men. They could one day serve to protect our community, and a country that wants to have a minimum defence capacity cannot give up on it. More generally, there seems to be an excessive confusion of roles; it is up to the technicians to indicate the instrumentation they need. It is not possible to indicate to the firemen the means they must equip themselves to put out the fires and it should not be done even with the Italian military. What we have to tell them is what financial resources are available and to confront them on their acquisition and use; in this perspective, since it is our security, moreover referred to a scenario far in time and unpredictable, it would be very good to be prudent and forward-looking. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and the Senators Alicata and Pagano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u78	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I express a thought that we all share: the debate on the F-35 allows us to further mark the watershed between those who think of peace as an objective to be built with all our strength and in truth, and those who, on the other hand, call to peace in order to build a culture of war anyway. I still have a fresh memory of the words of the current Minister of Defense Mauro, who seems to me to be of Catholic formation, according to which peace must be armed in order to love peace. I remember that just 50 years ago Pope John XXIII gave the prints an encyclical that from this point of view illuminated, before the minds, the hearts of half the world. I refer to the encyclical "Pacem in terris" in which Pope Roncalli argued that the true promoter of peace can only be the man of justice, so rather than arming peace, it should therefore be built by doing justice. These speeches are certainly challenging for those who believe, instead, that, in a moment of desperate social and economic crisis, it is preferable to make huge expenses, abhorrent for the purchase of bombers who, in the opinion of those who will also have to pilot them, are not reliable. They are also mainly attacking aircraft, which, as someone mentioned earlier, are defined by the aviators themselves as bombers. Article 11 of our Constitution clearly states that our country repudiates war. It seems to me that our Constitution should be re-read more often in this House, as we have already done on one occasion, because perhaps trying to counter war policies means investing in development, but it is respectful of the dignity and cultures of other peoples and other countries. I would remind myself, and this is a reminder that I propose to all parts of Parliament, that we at some time in the past have been involved in preventive wars. The concept of preventive war should also be reasoned. I still remember that in the electoral campaign many - and many are present in this House - have spoken against the purchase of the F-35 and against the implementation of a programme that has absolutely nothing peaceful. Finally, I remember, because I like to be very simple in my considerations, that those who now accompany certain lobby, who would like to proceed to the realization and purchase of these instruments of war, maybe a few years ago, at the end of the nineties, humming a song, "My name is never again", which with so many young people wanted to mean the rejection of a culture of war. A culture of war that, however, still today we insist on practicing, because then, in the end, when it is to be cashed in and monetized, the Italian Parliament also has difficulty in defending the universal rights of people, especially the weakest and most defenceless ones, and it is much more comfortable to defend the interests of those who, instead, thanks to weapons, continue to make money without being taxed, without being able to be subject to a particular intervention. We know that there is an international arms trade against which we fight in words, but which in fact continues to thrive. Thank you, I am convinced of your attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u80	He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Luciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u81	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Mauro and Mr Alfano and Mr Pinotti, not only for their presence, but also for the contribution they have made in important hearings and with their constant participation in the work of the Defence Commission. I will certainly and with conviction vote for motion No 107 tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, whom I ask to be able to sign, because I consider it a serious and responsible motion and I say immediately to the representative of the 5 Star Movement, Senator Morra, whom I also consider courageous. In fact, to make these commitments means to have courage and not to evade the long-standing international responsibilities. Motion No 107 is a serious analysis of an important and sensitive subject, which concerns the defence sector and, more generally, security. A serious topic, in which very demanding programmes and projects are being carried out, some even painful, such as the reduction of the workforce from 190,000 to 150,000, as has been mentioned: we are talking about women and men, about the servants of the State who will no longer be able to carry out this task, we are talking about the suppression of barracks. I repeat, a very serious and courageous programme is being implemented. When we deal with such important topics with noble and high concepts, we go down hope - in the particularity, in the sense that we would never want to close the barracks near us or we take care of the military that cannot be assumed, but this is typical of the selfishness of these times. I am therefore convinced that the attitude taken can be defined as serious and responsible. In the initials F-35 there is a serious programme, which has involved several governments with an important involvement since 1998. I am referring to the Governments of Alema, Berlusconi, Prodi, Monti and today that of President Letta, whom I strongly support. Well, when in 1998 (the Minister of Defence was Scognamiglio Pasini), this path was started, there was a serious reflection and a cognitive investigation to understand the validity and value of the project. I believe that when we talk about global and international dimensions, Italy - the one that still accepts the challenges - must not and cannot be taken away: we cannot continue to make a step forward and two steps back. For 15 years we have been going on with this project: in 2002 we entered a concrete phase of development and then the different successive governments confirmed the reliability of Italy and a precise will to move forward in this project. I firmly believe in the validity of this role of ours, which certainly has political implications but also other implications of different kinds, including employment. I'm Umbrian. My territory is seriously interested in important investments, and the same applies to other regions. I heard the colleague talking about Piedmont: in Cameri I was on an official visit when I was a member of the House Defence Commission. On that occasion I saw very serious projects and the commitment of workers who come from a history of dedication, passion and great responsibility. Thanks to these people, Italy does not escape the global challenge, continuing to be part of a system that must see us even more reliable and protagonists. Today is the opportunity to show whether we are reliable and protagonists or if Italy definitively renounces the role that, thanks to its extraordinary history, has conquered. Minister Martino confirmed in 2002... [[Recalls of the President]] Unfortunately, we are almost at the end of my time. However, a path has been built: the Commissions have made commitments and I demand the involvement of Parliament, with the assumption of precise responsibilities. All this is in the act. I would also like to read this passage, but the President's request obliges me to perhaps hand over this part of my speech. I can only say that I am a strong supporter of the valence of this project, at a time when Italy must be able to choose whether to make further, irresponsible marches back or courageously project itself towards this challenge, which is global and involves the missions of peace. But I've heard of war, missions not to be supported. We've gone and we're going all over the world. This offends our soldiers who go to territories where there is poverty...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u82	Senator, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u83	Rossi Luciano (PdL). Madam President, I will support with conviction the motion tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Giannini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u84	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, also because of the presence of the Minister, I would like to support his sentence: To love peace, we must arm peace. I do not forget, in fact, and I do not want to forget, before technicalism, that if we have democracy in Italy it is because against the madness of Nazi Fascism and Japanese militarism someone intervened militarily. Those liberators didn't come to chat, they came to give us back democracy. But you don't have to go to that. I spoke to Minister Agnelli, when Sarajevo was an open-air slaughter, where men, women and children were under sniper fire. Hundreds lost their lives. Let me think of Srebrenica and ethnic cleansing. What did the Pope then ask of the West? To intervene militarily to prevent the massacre of entire populations from continuing in general indifference. [[Applause from Senators Di Biagio and Giannini]] In Lebanon, what are our military doing? I am talking about several Italian governments that have flocked to the demand for peace, democracy and respect for women. We remember that in Afghanistan women are killed if they want to send children and girls to school to learn how to read and write. Do we want to force them into a obscurantism that confuses and offends fundamental human rights? Should these rights apply only to Italians and not to others? The armed forces are used to intervene, together with the international community, where human rights are conculcated. I come to the second point. You can't use two contradictory arguments like someone did before. One cannot pre-empt being totally and unconditionally opposed to having a military Air Force and an Army - therefore absolute pacifism - and then say, entering technicalism, that the F-35 would not be good for a number of reasons. The Minister and Parliament are politically absolutely right: Italy cannot but have an armed force linked to the United Nations and Europe, so that it can be a factor of peace and stability in the Mediterranean too. In fact, let us not forget that our ships and our planes are there to protect peace in a chessboard, between Israel and Palestine, in addition to Iraq and Iran, where the risks, even for Italians, are very high. As for the rest, the motion says so. Are there any technical problems? Do we need to go deeper? Is this plane the best possible? Can our flight line be renewed with technically better aircraft? I would trust more of the technicians, more of the military, more of those who know this matter, than of those who insist that the planes do not want them anyway and then prepares a series of excuses to support the thesis that must not be produced or assembled. Finally, I wonder if you think that the competition with India, China and the emerging countries we do with dolls, which cost us 10 euros and to them a cent, and we also abandon the high technology, from which comes all the progress for 30 years to this side. Space and military technology have provided us with computer science, mobile phones, real time; they have provided us with that scientific progress on which we can still compete with three quarters of the world. If we also abandon scientific research and investment in that sector, what remains to Italy to ensure employment for young people and avoid despair for adults? The machining that they do there by spending a cent of what we spend? Therefore, from this point of view too, saying no to advanced research is suicide for the country. I am therefore in solidarity with the Minister and I will vote with conviction on a motion that rightly calls for a few months to be taken to deepen the issue and make the best possible choice for our country. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u86	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u87	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is a point on which the whole of the House could find a meeting, if it so wished, and it is the doubt that we are all going through such a delicate passage as is that of an important investment in a weapon system. Doubt has various levels and layers. First of all, there is a technical question: is this the best possible instrument? Is there a reasonable relationship between the cost, which is undoubtedly important (we are talking about 500 million per year for several years), and its technical and technological yield? There is doubt as to the usefulness of this weapon instrument in a strategic context. There is also the doubt that it crosses all the ranks of this Senate, and certainly the Democratic Party, about the moral appropriateness of such an investment compared to Article 11 of the Constitution, and even more than the moment the country crosses. Parliament has the right to express these doubts on behalf of the country, because these doubts cross the country, and it has the duty to ask the Government for a serious and thorough review of this weapon program. Of course, he must exercise this right-to-duty, knowing that Parliament's power is not absolute either: our Constitution does not provide absolute powers for anyone, not even for Parliament. In fact, in the last parliamentary term, Parliament itself adopted Law 244 of 2012 which regulates this operation, that is to say it establishes how these checks must be carried out, because of course Parliament must also exercise its role with responsibility, since when it comes to multiannual investments we cannot change our minds for trivial reasons to every leafy storm. If you have to change your mind, you have to do it through a very serious procedure; when you make important investments, let's say very challenging, with other countries, at international level, there is also the credibility of our country at stake and therefore it is necessary that checks are made saving this other value that is at stake anyway. We are united on this, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to say this in a special way - and I am sorry that Mr Casson is not here - to the Members of the Democratic Party who have decided and are deciding to maintain their motion, which they say is actually very similar to that of the majority, which makes their choice not entirely understandable. On the other hand, there is one point that differentiates us, that - I do not want my colleagues - sounds propaganda to me, it is when doubt gives way to propaganda: because while in doubt we are united, I would like us to avoid the fall of doubt in propaganda. It is the propaganda that suggests that there would be billions of euros available for kindergartens, schools, hospitals, land-use planning if only one agreed to cut the fat budget of the Italian defense a little bit. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, and we all know it. It is enough to read not the official documents of the defence but - it has already been mentioned - the document of Archivio Disarmo: in order to reach a percentage point of GDP, the Archivio Disarmo puts in the costs of Defense also the pensions of military personnel. And I don't want to argue about fairness, that's fine: as long as we know what we're talking about. So, that's not the way it is. For years, the defence budget has been cut in proportion more than any other sector of public spending. Today Italy spends 0.85% of its GDP on defence, amounting to about 13 billion euros per year, out of 800 billion total public spending. No other Western country spends so little. And I say that this is a value, it is a positive fact: it means that Italy has made a choice certainly not to re-arm. But that is what we need to talk about, not a non-existent arms race. That's not all. These 13 billion 70 percent are military salaries and 10 percent (too little) operating expenses, while only 20 percent are used for investment, i.e. for the purchase of weapon systems. We are below the minimum level of maintenance in efficiency of our military apparatus. Even military machines, like all machines, are carts, ships or aircraft, and age to an end. It is what is happening to 250 military aircraft that should be replaced over the next 15 years by 90 F-35 (90 instead of 250), with an investment of about 500 million per year, otherwise we would remain practically without Air Force. I've heard that you shouldn't even build frigates, so we'd stay without the Navy. And just take a look at a map of the Mediterranean to understand that we cannot afford it. In fact, we all hope and must work in the sense of "Pacem in terris" so that the Mediterranean becomes a lake of peace, and our whole foreign policy is committed in that direction. Trouble if it wasn't. But today the Mediterranean is the most unstable and dangerous area in the world, this is the reality with which we must confront ourselves, and it is likely to remain so long. In view of this, it will also be necessary and fair for defence to become a matter of European competence. Let me remind a senator who considers himself degasperian by inspiration the importance of the European Defence Council that De Gasperi failed to launch. That dream is still our dream, but it will take years to realize it, perhaps decades, and in any case our bill for the cost of defence will hardly be reduced, being the lowest in Europe today. In conclusion, it is okay to suspend, deepen, verify, try to reduce and remodel, but we do not sell cheap illusions, colleagues and friends of this House. We don't make that mistake. A small and thoughtful defence investment policy is still essential. To deny this fact of reality is not good politics: it is bad politics. We allow ourselves to say so quietly, but also firmly, the same with which we shall vote in favour of the motion tabled by the majority. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u88	The debate is closed. I would like to inform my colleagues that, according to the understanding between the leaders, the debate on the motions on the agenda will continue tomorrow morning. I would therefore like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u91	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Madam President, I rise to inform the House of a problem that has affected my land, Emilia and Reggio Emilia in particular. On Saturday, seven municipalities of the lower Reggiana were hit by a climatic event of enormous gravity: an air trumpet, followed by a devastating hailstorm, caused huge damage, destroying entire crops of tomato, corn, alfalfa, watermelon, melon and vineyards, which were probably compromised for the next season. More than 200 companies are affected. We are talking about a territory and a province that have already suffered, in a little more than a year, a quake of gravity that we know. Not only that: last year, agricultural production was hit by a severe drought, followed by a flood phase. In the same land and in the same province, there was a breakdown that struck the Apennines of that territory and a second earthquake in the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines. Now, finally, there has been a climate event that has destroyed entire crops in 15 minutes. I call on this House to reflect on these problems and particularly on a region that sees the heart of food production as being subjected to unbearable tests. I also call for the recognition of the state of natural disaster in the area of Reggio-Emilia. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u94	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I too wanted to refer to this subject, because not only the municipalities of the lower Reggio Emilia but also the entire area of the Cremona region, therefore the casalasco and the Viadanese, have been affected. Also there were tremendous hailstorms: 10 cm of hail and 60 mm of water in two hours. The Lombardy Region, through its city council member Fava, has already announced that it will ask for the state of calamity, precisely to meet the needs of these people. In addition to the agricultural world, the industrial world was also affected, as the flooding of numerous sheds caused the loss of all the warehouses there. Coldiretti has calculated about one billion euros of damage in this area, which affects more than one province. So I also urge the government to take charge of this situation so that we can help these people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u97	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, in recent days the Government has issued a very important legislative decree, the one on filiation, which recognises equal rights between children born within marriage and those so far considered natural. It was a very good page in my opinion, which I wanted to stress here, because it represents the completion of a path already initiated by Parliament and which is carrying out a process of reform of family law in the direction of its modernisation; this process had a moment of splendour in the 1970s and then got stuck. President Letta accompanied this decree saying that there will never be any more serious children A and B-series kids. However, I would like to stress that, if this decree continues a process of modernization, as I said, the children of series A and of series B in this country still exist. There are, because there are so many children with adjectives - President Letta, among other things, said that there will no longer have to be children with adjectives - such as "foreigner, "extra-Community, "second generation"; children who do not have the rights of their classmates and their peers, because they lack the fundamental right of Italian citizenship. And then there are still so many children who are not the same as the other children in relation to the subject in question, that is, the recognition of the parental bond in the same way as that of the other children. It is children who are born and raised in families with parents of the same sex, who today do not see recognized any form of legal bond with the non-organic parent. It remains always strong as the only bond of blood, both as regards the relationship with one's own land and as regards the relationship with one's parents. I would like to hope that the legislative decree adopted by the Council of Ministers will make the awareness more general that, beyond that deep and ancestral bond that is the blood link with one's people, one's family and one's community, today there are also different bonds and that the laws of the State can go beyond the laws of blood. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ghedini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u100	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking as a result of something that we believe to be important and serious. Two days ago there was yet another collapse in Pompeii, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. A site so important that every year cashes about 20 million euros in tickets (there are really many) and so priority that the Ministry has left it in the hands of the Superintendences, who continue to do nothing for years. A cultural disaster son of an obtuse mentality that considers the archaeological cultural areas as sites not to be promoted. So marketing, unfortunately, doesn't exist. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Months have passed since the first collapse, the famous collapse that cost the Ministry to my colleague Bondi: the Democratic Party indicated the then Minister as sole responsible, with a motion of distrust in my opinion and unworthy. Since then nothing has changed and the current Minister, like his predecessors, has done nothing to change course: there are no serious projects, no serious projects that can be achieved. In view of UNESCO's threats to remove patronage from Pompeii, we ask the Minister to do something. Unfortunately, Madam President, this is the Government of saying; doing is a mirage. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Given what has not been done so far, we ask the Minister to step aside and allow others, perhaps more competent and willing, to manage the most important archaeological site in the world, not only in Italy. We therefore ask the Minister to resign as soon as possible, otherwise we will ask for it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] It is not a political matter, it is a matter of dignity and love for our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u101	Rather than raise the matter in a late sitting speech, Senator Centinario, I suggest you submit a question, so that the Government can respond to its assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u102	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-66.ana.u103	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Tuesday 16 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.54 p.m.
