ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00149 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ghedini Rita and other senators, and 1-00163, tabled by Senator Stucchi and other senators, on the process of democratization in Myanmar. I remember that both motions were illustrated in the afternoon session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u9	Madam President, the process of European integration is born after the Second World War, and one of its aims is to ensure peace and development for countries that emerge from the war and are in need of a certain economic recovery. Among the various bodies that are born for the purpose, perhaps the most important is the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which today brings together 57 countries and pursues the cooperation and security of these States. The whole Western world is committed to ensuring greater areas of democracy and to broadening its model of development; this means ensuring peace and prosperity for each country. Today we are talking about a Republic that was born in 1948, Burma, now known as Myanmar, which has seen very little of democratic systems in its relatively short life as a Republic. Beyond the coup d'état of 1988, when the military totally took power, the life of this country is an alternation, if not of civil wars, of attempts to recover the country to democracy. The world wakes up and realizes Burma in 1990 when the Democratic National League - which we like for its name - wins the elections. The military junta already held power and ruled the country and, therefore, the army did not accept the result of the elections and allegedly arrested the leaders of that party. At this point the world knows the president of the National Democratic League, Aung San Suu Kyi, who, imprisoned in 1990, even receives the Nobel Peace Prize the following year. Life goes on sobbing, between arrests, liberations and new arrests, until 2010, when Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi finally sees her final release. However, there are still many exiles in refugee camps, on the border with Thailand, and the same elections in 2010, with a Constitution drawn up by the military government, which assigns to the officers appointed by the army 25% of the parliamentary seats, while only 75% of the seats are attributed following elections, they see an infinite number of frauds. In fact, farce elections are called and the National Democratic League itself does not participate in them. The world at this point lights the spotlight on this geographical area and something changes: we see some small reform towards democracy, the system is transformed from what was in a mixed economy, the political prisoners are released and America itself, after fifty years, resumes diplomatic relations, until in 2011 the official visit of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton takes place, with a de facto recognition of the country and the steps it is taking. New elections are promised, held in 2012, but the majority of the seats are still oddly in the hands of the military, appointed by the military junta, and only a small part (45 seats) is available to the opposition; of these, the National League for Democracy is awarded even 43. If we want to look at this situation with a positive eye we can say that some important steps have been taken, if we think that we are going from the executions of 1993 to the fact that today, instead, we are talking about abolishing the death penalty from the codes of that country. The army is the strength of that country: it is the tenth army in the world, although Burma is not the tenth economic power in the world, and the majority of the Ministries are still headed by military officers. The UN has been dealing with Burma since 2005, partly because it estimates that for forty-nine consecutive years there has been essentially a military dictatorship. Although the current Constitution provides that the military can only have 25% of Parliament's seats, today the army officers occupy 77 percent of the parliamentary seats. The European Union has broken its official relations and maintains relations only with regard to humanitarian aid. The EU has thought something, but it has misconceived it: it has appointed Mr Fassino as special envoy for Burma. [[Applause from the Senator Council]] This mediation - alas - has failed miserably and the Burmese opposition itself has called for the withdrawal of our envoy considering that he has carried out a completely negative action: too many caustic articles have been written, for them there has been a media overdose. In their opinion, this man has spent too many months making only proclamations and press conferences; they say that we must end it with the diplomacy of the megaphone, because these continuous interviews to the media and the use of abundant rhetoric have only stiffened the regime against oppositions. Therefore, the path to be taken is another and all our diplomacy together with the international one, must be taken care of for the stability of all areas. We live in a fairly hot or hot area, since we can talk about the Mediterranean, with a Middle East always ready to explode. Well, more areas of relaxation (and in this case we are talking about an area even further east) we can have on the globe, certainly better will be the relations between the various nations and certainly will be guaranteed a condition of greater well-being and development for all populations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u10	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u11	Madam President, Burma is a complex situation that allows us to make reflections that go far beyond its geography; in fact we can look at the dynamics of this country to observe mechanisms that, we have seen, also concern other realities and that can also induce general considerations on the relationship between economy, environment and man in the global dimension in which we are now certain to live. In Burma there are geopolitical interests, because its geographical position today is increasingly crucial, as the West must equip itself to react to the incredible growth of China and India, to face the so-called Asian tigers. There are economic interests, which have been mentioned over and over again, when it comes to the process of democratization in Burma. There are resources: hydrocarbons, high-quality timber, fish products. Last but not least, Burma is a new market to be conquered and a ground for new investments. In fact, it is a country that is showing itself to be very dynamic from the economic point of view. I will not be here to remember figures that can be easily found on the net and I will not bore you; they are however very interesting figures. And they are so interesting that it is no coincidence that this country has attracted the attention of many companies, in particular Italian, oil & gas, agriculture, agricultural mechanization, food processing, stone materials, construction, textiles, packaging, industrial materials, tourism and fishing. And it is no coincidence that this inspired collaborative and investment development projects. In fact, we are well aware that the possibility of achieving economic and trade relations has been freed from the suspension, and then from the lifting, of the sanctions of the European Union, sanctions that have been lifted in the light of greater attention to human rights and democratic freedoms. So let's get to the point. The point is what is the relationship between the process of democratization (undoubtedly started, but still very fragile) and the possibility of economic and political cooperation. Tint Swe, who is the representative of the National League for Democracy in Exile in India, stressed the suspicion that the European Union's choice to remove sanctions was largely based on political reasons, but that it was driven by economic interests. So, these are our fears: as has already happened elsewhere in this globalized world, we see a country rich in natural beauty and culture, but it is threatened by its own wealth. Elsewhere we have seen too many times that foreign investment has resulted in environmental devastation; too many times it has been profitable for a few, without the benefits being distributed fairly. Large dams, boundless projects, pipelines that cross the country far and wide: will environmental impacts be carefully assessed? Will local populations be driven out of the land affected by these projects? Will forced labor still be practiced? These and many other questions come to mind, and they are not idle questions, because we know well that, despite the release of political prisoners, despite the release of Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi and his election in Parliament, despite the opening up to a revision of the liberctic contents of the Constitution of 2008, the population remains very poor and the economic power is in the hands of some billionaires, who are then the military of the army and their clique of affiliates. There are still very serious questions about respect for human rights and the overcoming of ethnic conflicts. In essence, the competition between military and democracy is still alive. The National Commission on Human Rights does not seem to be such an independent body. Corruption is overwhelming. Transparency and traceability in Burma do not have citizenship. The changes that we are talking about have resonance mainly for the highness of the subjects involved, but these changes, as my colleague Rita Ghedini and my colleague Divina have pointed out, are more superficial and do not concern millions of migrants and citizens. Martial law, in fact, is gradually abandoned only after the basis of that very military power has secured control of the country's assets. What we are asking is that the Italian Government, in supporting and supporting, as requested in motion 1, the leader in her path of opposition, carefully chooses actions and interlocutors, demonstrating that it knows how to subordinate economic interests to the defence of human values, where necessary, and not the opposite. I would like to conclude with two comments, first of all by quoting the words of Aung San Suu Kyi herself, spoken to the European Parliament in Strasbourg when she withdrew the Sakharov Prize, which is given for the defence of human rights and freedom of expression. The Nobel Prize says: I hope that you will be our friends in the continuous effort to secure democratic rights. We need education, health, freedom and the right to forge our destiny, to be able to decide what is best for ourselves. Freedom of thought is essential for human progress. If we interrupt freedom of thought, we also interrupt the progress of our world. The second point is that I am particularly pleased that Aung San Suu Kyi is being hosted in the city of Parma, of which she is an honorary citizen, where she will meet students in particular. This will happen for the first time on all his tours. This is particularly pleasing, because if it is true that it is important for children to meet the witnesses of this very hard battle, it must also be clear that all the values of freedom of thought and democracy must never be considered as values acquired forever, but must always be cared for and cultivated. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u12	I greet the students of the Istituto Tecnico Statale. "Cavour-Marconi-Pascal" in Perugia who are visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u13	He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u14	Madam President, it seems to me that our colleagues, Senator Rita Ghedini and Senator Stucchi, have already put forward particularly valuable arguments in order to support the motions that are at the heart of our assessment and our debate today. I therefore promise to propose simply some insights and ideas for reflection. There are two particularly faustian circumstances, as far as we're concerned, these days. On Monday, Aung San Suu Kyi will be a guest of the Italian Senate and later, during her presence in Italy, will visit some Italian cities from which she has received honorary citizenship. We can therefore say with good reason that this leader is our citizen. The second contingency consists of the fact that finally, after twenty-three years, then a period of time that says of the duration of a witness and a resistance, Aung San Suu Kyi managed to withdraw the Andrej Sakharov prize, which is awarded to international personalities who have signalled themselves for their battle for the defence of human rights. I would like to make two points. First of all, what has Burma been in these years? I believe that the most appropriate answer lies in the definition of the category of Eastern despotism: Burma has been an Eastern despotic country, thus subject to a totalitarian power that has resorted to detention camps, torture and forced labour. A military dictatorship, moreover, absolute: this is the eastern characteristic of this regime. The second consideration is that Aung San Suu Kyi was the protagonist of a pacifism neither imbecile nor inert. She was an exponent of active and active pacifism and, through the use of the instruments proper to the democratic battle, managed to impose her personality and inaugurate a process of democratic transition in her country. I believe that this also results in a lesson for us: this enables us to become aware that democracy will be planetary in the new century or will not be. I believe that the Burmese case in this respect is quite emblematic, a case against which our parliamentary assemblies have kept their guard and their attention high and, thanks above all to parliamentary diplomacy, it has been possible to support the battle that Aung San Suu Kyi has waged over these years with inflexible and extraordinary coherence. Today we are faced with a process of democratic transition that leaves many questions open: it leaves open the question of the ongoing constitutional review process. This I believe constitutes the reference and the privileged place of attention to which we must look: a national reconciliation that allows the rewriting of a constitutional text such as that which had been approved with a plebiscite, certainly not with a referendum democratic consultation, in 2008 and which still reserves a privileged space for a military domination that lacks the necessary democratic consensus. The process of constitutional revision must break and remove the contra-personal norm that was promulgated precisely to prevent Aung San Suu Kyi from becoming the protagonist of the public life of his country that is her responsibility because of the authority she has been able to acquire and the consent she enjoys. Burma is facing a second problem today, which I believe is crucial for its development and for its democratic and civil growth. As is well known, Burma is crossed by ethnic conflicts with a strong religious characterization. From this point of view, Burma is a test stand on which fundamental and non-negotiable values can be measured, such as the peaceful coexistence of religious beliefs, tolerance, dialogue and the possibility of peaceful confrontation. Burma is struggling with another problem: the affirmation of democracy in a particularly troubled area. As is well known, Myanmar is expected to assume the presidency of the Association of South-East Asian Nations in 2014. This clearly cannot but load this country and its government of a greater, a burden of responsibility at a time when, moreover, it is going through a constituent phase of extraordinary importance. It takes on a particular significance, therefore, the initiative that this Senate is carrying out today. Precisely in relation to the strategy aimed at the affirmation of a planetary democracy, the commitment that the Italian people, through this Assembly, are able to promote to speed up the process of transition, so that as soon as possible the borders of this country open to the authentic respect of human rights and democratic principles. Today we are debating two motions. It seems to me that the texts presented may leave room for a shared agenda. I believe that this would strengthen the sense of our commitment and offer our most authoritative guest, on Monday afternoon, a sign of a wide attention and a willingness that converges towards a goal that we can all share. I therefore conclude my brief speech with this firm appeal. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Morra and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u15	The debate is closed. I declare that an agenda has been submitted by the signatories to motions No 149 (text 2) and No 163, which have been withdrawn accordingly. The relevant text is distributed. She asked to speak to Senator Rita Ghedini to explain the agenda G1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u16	Madam President, I would like to speak just one minute to say to Senator Corsini that he had hoped for the unification of the arrangements, that we have actually unified the arrangements contained in the two motions on a single agenda, having recorded - I believe - not only the congruence of the premises of the two motions, but - I think I can say this, and I hope that this will be confirmed by the vote - also a broad convergence in the debate that has taken place. The agenda - I said - recalls the two devices and therefore commits the Government to guarantee constant determination in every place, European and international, and in direct relationship with the Government of Myanmar, to ensure the continuation of the evolution of the democratic process in that country and to make every effort, respecting the self-determination of Burmese citizens, to make those changes to the Constitution that allow all citizens and all Burmese citizens to stand for presidential elections in next 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u17	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u18	Madam President, I would like to thank the Senate very much, particularly Senator Ghedini and Senators Stucchi and Divina, for this work on the case of Myanmar, which is being discussed at a very special time. As has been pointed out, we have today in Italy the visit of the Burmese Foreign Minister Wunna Maung Lwin, who met with the Minister for Foreign Affairs Bonino and who opened, with the same Minister Bonino, a seminar at the Farnesina on 'Myanmar'. New Asian border. And above all, as you have rightly mentioned, we await the visit of San Suu Kyi, Nobel Peace Prize winner and opponent of the Burmese Government, from Monday to Italy and Rome for some meetings, also with the Minister of Foreign Affairs (there will be a breakfast with the Minister of Foreign Affairs Bonino). Let me just add two or three points very quickly. The first is that both rapporteurs have recognised that Italy has played an important role in this issue of Myanmar, with constructive but critical dialogue. I believe that this was a paying line, which led the European Union to take a similar position. As you have reminded us, in 2013 the European Union decided to suspend sanctions beyond the military embargo, and I remind you that San Suu Kyi was in favour of this line. Therefore, Italy has a continuity of politics; this is one of the land on which we can claim a positive result. Progress since 2011, as you said, has been very important: the release of 850 political prisoners, the elections, the first major agreements (e.g. the agreement with the International Labour Organisation on Forced Labour). I was speaking today at breakfast with the Burmese Foreign Minister, who told me that on the very serious phenomenon - which you recalled, Senator Ghedini - of child moneyers, namely child soldiers, Myanmar has signed an action plan with the UN Special Representative, whose implementation we will follow. So there has undoubtedly been progress. But there are also the limits that you have mentioned and that we can certainly summarize: all political prisoners must be released, there must be a complete peace with ethnic minorities, there is a problem of violent treatment of the Muslim minority and there is the problem of the evolution of the Constitution, in addition to the problems that you have reminded, Senator Mussini, of the standards of life and of the economic and social conditions of a country that is only now opening up to the market economy. I say this to say that this is an important debate, because Myanmar is a country that has a greater importance than we think, beyond the San Suu Kyi case: Myanmar was in fact given the presidency of the Association of Southeast Asian Countries (ASEAN), that is to say of an area that will become integrated and that will have an internal market of 500 million people. It is therefore an important country for its geopolitical position - as has been mentioned, it has always been somewhat crushed between China and India - as well as, as I have already said, for the fact that it will assume the Presidency of ASEAN, that is, one of the big growing markets. Myanmar is also a paradigmatic case in a certain sense of how we can succeed from outside to influence the democratic evolution of countries that were not democratic. It seems to me, therefore, that the debate we have held has also been interesting for this reason, leading us to discuss together how a country like ours, which is part of the European Union, can, with a constant attitude over the years, be able to influence in some way the evolution of a country as difficult as Myanmar is in fact. One last point I would like to mention is the question of economic interests, of course there are, as there are in any foreign policy that has the objective of combining values - which we have always pursued - but also interests. Actually today at Farnesina there were the great Italian groups: we will see if there will be a real economic opening and if there will be, as it were, a social responsibility for enterprise. Paolo Scaroni today spoke about this, emphasizing an important point. Finally, I have heard a very critical remark about the work of Piero Fassino, who, as you know, was Special Envoy of the European Union from 2007 to 2011. I would just like to say this: historically we have few people who have had important international positions. Piero Fassino - I was talking to the Burmese Foreign Minister today - is considered by the Burmese to be an excellent special envoy, which I think is quite interesting. The Burmese Foreign Minister was ambassador to Geneva and it was on that occasion that he met Piero Fassino as a special envoy of the European Union. Fassino, on the other hand, has in many cases received recognition from San Suu Kyi herself. I therefore do not see why we, who have few international representatives, must ignore the work they have done. It is a way to damage our country's reputation, both nationally and abroad. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I must say very sincerely, and without any spirit of controversy, that this is not appropriate for any of us. This is a beautiful day, when the work of the Senate and the Government coincided, and I am happy about that: we hope that all this will serve, and that it will serve the democratic evolution of Myanmar until 2015. It is in this spirit that, on behalf of the Government and in particular of Minister Bonino, I welcome the agenda for G1. [[Applause from the groupsPD, PdL and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u19	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u22	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have come to this conclusion because it seemed to us the natural outcome. The historical picture of our two motions was in fact the same, also because the picture of the country is what it is, and it collimated: for this reason we focused on the device and, together with the Democratic Party, we of the League have identified the two substantive points to submit to the vote of the Assembly of the Senate. What we are saying is essentially to continue with this activity, in all European and international fora, in order to ensure this continuity and support for the development of the democratic process in Burma, to which, albeit lacking, we must look forward, because of the timid steps that have actually been taken, have already been achieved. As far as we are concerned, we have asked to add what all our international partners, namely the recognition of the real right of every Burmese citizen or citizen to stand for presidential elections, since the current Constitution, drawn up by the military junta, seems to have actually introduced an ad personam rule in the opposite sense, could be said to be contra personam, as a Burmese citizen who had parental relations with a foreign national would not be eligible for the post of President of the nation. Aung San Suu Kyi, president of the major organized party, who could democratically win the election, would be prevented from running as a widow of an English national and with two children with a surname attributable to the nationality of the father. We must press for this to be removed from the rules of the military constitution currently in force. I would like to reassure my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement about their fear of voting for an agenda that stimulates all international bodies to broaden the sphere of democratic influence in countries that are not today. I cannot understand what evil should be implied, even if the democratic countries decided to establish trade relations with these countries. If there is more democracy in Myanmar it will achieve a better quality of life for those people, and above all better prospects for the future well-being of the Burmese themselves. I therefore invite you to review your positions, because, as a League, we see no economic underlying or exploitation of these countries. We therefore announce our vote in favour of the agenda, which contains the meaning and will of the two original motions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u25	GIANNI (SPI). Madam President, kind Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the complexity of the last thirty years of Burmese history is also reflected in the name. The military junta, in power at the end of the 1980s, decreed by law (with the Adaptation of Expressions Law of 1989) the phonetic adaptation of the toponym Myanma to the new use outside the country. The term, traditionally used in Burmese within the country, next to the most colloquial Burma, was modified with the addition of a final "r" to facilitate its Anglo-Saxon pronunciation and with the aim, successful, to spread and impose a new definition, presenting it as a trait of modernity and openness. It is not a simple detail of linguistic history, because when governments intervene on the language by decree there is a process of consolidation of dictatorship and zeroing of the most elementary symptoms of democracy. Moreover, when the international community does not understand - as in this case - the political nuance of these measures means that it gives unknowingly to the arrogance of the regime, even if expressed in its most subtle form. But today the Senate of the Italian Republic, all the more so, with a joint agenda, testifies that it wants to assume full political responsibility in supporting the slow and progressive process of transition of Burma towards a state of democracy, authentically open to the rest of the world and finally respectful to the bottom of fundamental human rights. There is full harmony, I believe, between this parliamentary commitment and the feeling spread in our country. Italy has in fact followed with closeness and passion the recent fate of Burma - tormented fate emerged in the interventions that preceded me - outside and within the institutional and political fora; starting at least from the Boniver motion of December 2008 that denounced, listing them, the numerous evidence of transgression of fundamental rights. Now, Vice-Minister, what you have told us is comforting because some of those violations seem to have begun towards a process of overcoming, in particular the recruitment of child soldiers, regularly employed in the numerous and never-suffering internal guerrillas, especially in border areas; but I am also thinking of the use of torture and forced labour arrangements for political prisoners, on which we must have absolute and definitive guarantees. The first and most serious evidence, of course, of this distance from full democracy in Burma is the long detention under house arrest of its leader Aung San Suu Kyi, whom we will have the honour of hosting in Parliament in a few days' time. After a few years, we can say that that line of complaint expressed by the Italian Parliament, confirmed and strengthened in international fora by Piero Fassino's statements, was successful. The picture has finally changed, not only because there are 40 members of the National League for Democracy sitting in Parliament, alongside their leader since 2012, but also because the government is giving signs of change. I quote some very significant episodes: from the institutional point of view, the acceptance of sending parliamentarians to India and to other countries for a kind of formation to institutional and political rules; from the press and media level, the elimination of preventive censorship and the publication of the weekly 'Myanmar Time', whose standards are close to international ones; from the political point of view, finally, the start of negotiations with all minorities facing borders (as you have confirmed us), and by making agreements with some of them. In declaring our vote fully in favour of the agenda, I would like to say that the most sensitive traces of renewal come from civil society, which until yesterday had remained completely isolated and excluded from that process of development of South-East Asia that has in Vietnam perhaps the most striking case. The country has opened up to foreign tourists (and Italians are a very important component). Tourists travel everywhere and interact with the local population, which has doubled in the last thirty years (now the Burmese are about 60 million) and is made up of 50 percent of young people under thirty years. This 50 percent of young people are hungry for education, international mobility (I also say this from personal and direct experience), qualified work, and certainly no longer resigned to rice cultivation or other traditional activities that guaranteed them a poor form of livelihood. Italy will be able to play a very important role in the European context, so that cultural and economic cooperation becomes the effective framework of soft power in this phase of Burmese history. They are essential tools - I list them quickly - the economic investments in order to favor the process of industrialization of the country, the intensification of the contacts with the international organizations (the presidency of ASEAN in 2014 is a concrete example) and above all - let me insist - the start of a systematic network of relations with universities and institutions of European research and training. The British Council had been based in Rangoon for many years, for obvious reasons of historical sonship, so it is recovering education in the formation of English, which the new generation of Burmese had completely lost. We were asked this year to activate an Italian language and culture course. I want to put this issue to your attention, Deputy Minister, because it can become a very important element of penetration, even at political level; I hope that this project can continue. So today Burma needs international contacts, solid and guaranteed by this zeroing of the transgression of fundamental rights that characterized it until recently, and young Burmese people who know languages and other cultures, and who have a legitimate expectation that this evolution will bring work, progress and modernity, and therefore democracy. On this basis, I am voting in favour of the G1 agenda and I would like to thank Mrs Ghedini for her extraordinary work. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u28	Orellana (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make it clear that our vote on the agenda at first sign by my colleagues Rita Ghedini and Stucchi will only be in favour. The 5 Star Movement always welcomes everything that aims to promote the start of virtuous processes of democratization, and this is precisely the path that Myanmar seems to have taken and that cannot go unnoticed. There are several signs that, starting from the release of Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, historical opponent of the regime, which took place in November 2010, began to characterize the internal and external politics of that country. Special attention should be paid to events such as obtaining the presidency of the Association of South-East Asian Nations for 2014, the release of numerous political prisoners, the cancellation of major infrastructure projects, such as the construction of the dam on Irrawaddy, invisible to the majority of the population (that perhaps we too, in Italy, should take up Myanmar?), the loosening of censorship in the press and allowing it, last April, to apply for the parliamentary election of the Nobel Prize. They are all certainly encouraging signals and it is of secondary importance to remember that these are probably derived from a series of international economic dynamics: on the one hand, the reduction of sanctions on the part of the Western powers, on the other, the great economic potential of Burma, rich above all, in areas controlled by different ethnic groups, of oil, gas and timber. However, as reported by some sources, both local and international, at internal level, the scope of President Thein Sein's democratic openness must be re-evaluated, or rather reduced, in the light of a number of elements: the reformist promises, carried out in particular over the last two years, represent in the short term a sure advance on the level of democratisation, but at the same time they will end up colliding with the backbone of the regime, with its intimate essence. The 2008 Constitutional Charter, which constitutes its scaffolding, guarantees the military 25% of parliamentary seats and gives them the power of veto over any constitutional reform, while the ruling party, the Union solidarity and development party, ensures the indirect control of the army over the government. In this respect, the importance of the measures of the last few days must be reduced. The steps taken thus appear to be minimal concessions and political tributes to the reformist pressure exerted by the Nobel Prize-winning Democratic League and especially by the United States. In a recent article of 30 July last, published in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" (the Republic), a human rights activist in Burma, Teht Oo, reminds us that there are repressive laws that allow political prisoners to be put in prison and that are still in force and it is therefore necessary to stop the arrests and drop the accusations against those who are fighting for the rights of citizens. Currently, according to the Burmese Government, the number of political prisoners in prison is about a hundred. Then there is the unsolved question of ethnic fractures that tear the country apart from its origins. Myanmar's multi-ethnic nature had been enshrined since the Burmese Constitution of 1948, but the regime of recent decades has not favoured a peaceful coexistence of peoples within the Burmese State. The ceasefire established months ago by the Central Government towards the Shan State Army and the Karen National Liberation Army, which is the armed arm of the Karen National Union party, can only be considered a significant step forward in the stabilisation plan. These paramilitary organizations have been fighting for years, respectively, for the independence of the Shan people and the Karen people. However, it should be remembered that, according to many non-governmental organizations such as Act for Peace, which is part of a consortium of humanitarian associations engaged in assistance to refugees, on the border between Thailand and Myanmar, the military iron fist on ethnic minorities continues, with immense suffering and displacement for thousands of people. Since 2010, the Burmese Government has forced 17 armed ethnic groups to lay down their weapons. The goal was to use the regular army as a border guard forces, so as to exercise closer control over them. This strategy did not always work and in cases like Kachin Independence Organization (KIO) rebels turned their backs on the military junta. In June 2011, after seventeen years of ceasefire, on the border with China there were firefights against the Kachins. Even here, most likely, in spite of the will of the inhabitants of the region, there are economic interests hidden that Burma wants to maintain with its historical Chinese partner. In its joint statement of 10 October last, the Burmese Government and the KIO expressed their intention to weaken the conflict. However, beyond such commendable purposes, the tension is still quite high. There is no shortage of racial and religious clashes in Burma, which is now overwhelmed by the flattery of democracy. In an area west of the country, on the border with Bangladesh, the violence between the Buddhist majority, which many consider backed up by the local police, and the Muslim minority of the Rohingya have caused hundreds of deaths. According to the United Nations, the Rohingya are one of the most persecuted ethnic groups in the world, although they are made up of about 800,000 people. In this scenario with lights and shadows lies the role that the West in general and Italy in particular can play in the Burmese affair. Many economic analysts already see Myanmar as a possible future Asian tiger (low wages, geographical proximity to other markets, abundance of natural resources and more). Italy, as a country system, has rightly understood these potentialities. An indirect confirmation to this we can also see in the presence of today's meeting at the Farnesina between Minister Bonino and the homologist of Myanmar in which representatives of Confindustria and ENI participated. This is certainly a good thing, but the legitimate desire for economic development risks forgetting or deliberately ignoring the civil, human and political rights of the Burmese people. In this sense, that is, as far as democratic rights are concerned, we welcome the specific request of the Stucchi motion that the Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi should not be prevented from running for office. In this area of South-East Asia, unfortunately, there are not isolated cases of countries with strong economic growth, but which show strong democratic deficits. We must cooperate and be a stimulus so that this does not happen in Myanmar too. Yes, Mr President and colleagues, in conclusion, we reiterate our support for the agenda of Mr Ghedini and Mr Stucchi, sharing their praiseworthy, albeit vague, intent. However, we would like to reiterate that the international community must not only, as is right, support the process of openness to democratic values, but also monitor it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Giannini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u31	Mr Mazzoni (PdL). Madam President, the process of democratization in Myanmar has made a great deal of progress in recent years, but the West has a duty to keep its guard up, because the Constitution that remains in force is still very critical, including, as has already been mentioned, discrimination on nominations for the Presidency and the Vice-President, the 25% allocation of posts to the military in the Union Assembly and the House of Nationality, as well as restrictive rules for the approval of amendments. In particular, the Constitution, in Chapter 3, states that citizens who are married to foreigners or children with foreign citizenship cannot become President, in fact preventing Aung San Suu Kyi, who has already expressed the intention to run for President of the Union in the next political elections in 2015, to participate in the presidential race. "I am the leader of a party" - said the Nobel Peace Prize winner after the triumph of his National League for Democracy in the supplementary elections - "and as such I must also have the courage to serve my country as President." A strong challenge, a legitimate challenge, a challenge in the name of freedom and democracy. Now, as a heroine of democracy, San Suu Kyi has become the ambassador in the world of her country, but above all of her people, finally out of isolation for decades, with the primary objective of attracting Western attention and investment to Myanmar. In this regard, the exchange between Italy and Myanmar is about 46 million dollars and can increase mainly in the field of energy, tourism and agriculture. The agenda that the PDL is preparing to vote firmly captures the complexity of the situation in former Burma, made poor by the repression of military juntas, but rich in enormous natural resources, hoping for a strengthening of cooperation between the European Union, Italy and Myanmar, but closely linked to the necessary, further progress in the process of democratic evolution, in respect of human rights, in the liberation of all political prisoners and in overcoming the ethnic conflicts still existing. Despite the undoubted progress made, the political situation in the former Burma is still very uncertain. First of all, the holders of power are divided: on the one hand, there are those who want to take Burma away from mainly economic control by China and bring it closer to the United States, in order to definitively cancel the sanctions that have hit the country hard, and on the other hand, those who aim for a continuity in foreign policy that would also lead to a slowdown in reforms on the domestic front. However, the transition to greater freedom has finally begun. Since they went to power, in March 2011, the former generals who formed the first formally civil Burmese government, after 49 years of military regime, have released almost 700 political prisoners and the direct censorship on the media, in force since August 1964, has been abolished. Under the pressure of Aung San Suu Kyi there have been more steps towards democracy in recent months than in the last 40 years, although there is still a long way to go. The task of the West in this situation is to promote the process of internal peace and to forcefully demand the release of all dissidents by the end of the year, because persecution of opposition unfortunately continues. That towards democracy achieved, in short, cannot yet be considered an irreversible process. We are certainly in the presence of a great democratic ferment, of an opening of the country that only two-three years ago would have been absolutely unimaginable and that must be helped, remembering that a possible coup d'état by some faction within the army is always possible. We must be firmly at the side of Aung San Suu Kyi, who has played and plays a crucial role in the democratization of Myanmar despite the criticism that is raining on her even from sectors of her movement, which accuse her of having come to terms with the regime. The development of democracy necessarily goes hand in hand with the free market and the West will also have an essential role to play on this point, allowing Myanmar to avoid the problems that other Asian countries have encountered in their development process, starting with pollution and the exploitation of cheap labour. San Suu Kyi recently re-launched the call for new investments in Burma, a mechanism that would greatly help the nation in its new democratisation process. With this agenda, which the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote with conviction, we are committed to ensuring that this happens. [[Applause from Senators Formigoni and Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u32	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet a representative of volunteers from the Corps of Firemen of Carano, in the province of Trento. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u35	FATTORINI (PD). Madam President, many have already noticed how all countries, from the United States to the European Union and the countries of Asia, look with great attention to the transition, to the new phase that has opened in Burma, which is increasingly a strategic country between China, India and South-East Asia and therefore its evolution can constitute a great change not only for that area. It has been recalled that in 2014 Burma will take over the presidency of the Southeast Asian Association of Nations (ASEAN), so everyone is well aware of how important, but also very complicated, the evolution of Burma. This has been emphasized by many very interesting interventions that will allow me to be quite brief. The situation is complicated and exciting, but not without risks and the responsibilities that weigh on the shoulders of President Thein Sein and Aung San Suu Kyi are enormous. I am referring to those connected to a beginning of democracy that opens up - for good and for bad - to capitalist development, as Senator Mussini (the risks I share) recalled, and how the Deputy Minister Dasù took up again when he spoke of the importance of social responsibility for investments in the free market. From this point of view we must also consider the importance and specificity of Italy in terms of our language and culture. I agree with the recognition of the work of the Special Envoy Piero Fassino, sent by the European Union in 2007. The Italians have always been close to the Burmese people. I would like to mention the many local institutions, the cultural associations. Among these I recall the association "Friends of Burma", which was born around initiatives of the Senate. I would also like to mention the commitment of Senator Soliani and her work in the last parliamentary term. These are important results that can now be seen in the invitation and visit that Aung San Suu Kyi will make in the next few days not only in the Senate, but in Parma and Reggio. We senators and senators are very pleased with this and we support the request for amendments to the Constitution, in particular to its chapter three, which prevents the election of the Presidency to those who have relatives, as in the case of Aung San Suu Kyi, of foreign citizenship. We hope that the 25% quota for the House and the House, which is reserved for the military, will be changed. We therefore agree with this approach to both intervention on the Constitution and the extension of diplomatic relations. We look forward to a visit from our Foreign Minister to Rangoon shortly. In conclusion, I would like to decline the reasoning that we have heard so far in more detailed and specific terms than the extraordinary personality of Aung San Suu Kyi, who will be a guest at the Senate on October 28, and will continue his visit to Reggio, where he will meet the students, and to Parma, where he will participate in a performance of a work by Verdi, at the Teatro Regio. I would like to add a few final remarks on his personality which, in my opinion, have not been sufficiently emphasized, linking them to a quick reasoning on the contributions that his personality and that Burmese process come as an enrichment to our difficult Italian and European situation. An idea of democracy that is very lame and in difficulty also in our Western countries and that the economic, moral and political crisis undermines more and more, facilitating or threatening solutions that, if they are not anti-democratic, are almost post-democratic. I would like the help that we must give to the evolution of that country, amply mentioned in the speeches that preceded me, to return to us in other forms that, precisely because so different from ours, can be potentially enriching. I would like to summarize these forms with an image linked to this woman, to the identification of a woman with her people and with democracy, a democracy - to say it with the theory of Nussbaum's emotions - that she lived as an emotion embodied in a people, thus recalling a collective concept, but also in the emotions of intimate family feelings. The importance, for example, that had in his biography the father killed, murdered in 1947. The memory and testimony of the old people of his ethnicity (as has been recalled, ethnic groups are fundamental in Burma) of the clashes, which have religious roots. The relationship and the crazy conflict between Buddhists and Muslims. Aung San Suu Kyi's need, also in clothing, to coordinate, represent and intertwine the various ethnic groups. Etnie who saw 40 years of dictatorship, as we know. A woman with a fragile and delicate appearance, who we have been accustomed to seeing with flowers in her hair, who have a deep symbolic meaning in that culture, with this orientalization that we Western women love so much, and that contains so much strength precisely because (and this was the message that sent us) expressed a great interiority and a deep spirituality. Not only, therefore, does a woman lend herself to democracy, to the service of democracy, but she identifies herself with it and with a force that, I repeat, paradoxically arises more from a dimension of fragility than from an omnipotence. Therefore, a profoundly oriental meaning so different from us, that it can represent an element of great enrichment in our crisis so serious of identification of moral and cultural values. This oriental idea that you summarized very well when, obtaining the Nobel Prize in 1991, it said: We must always remember that humanity is one. I would like to conclude with this sentence, because we will give (yes, we hope to give), but I would also like to remember how much we can take from that tradition. And on the occasion of his coming I would like to highlight these characteristics as a tribute to his personality. You remain an example for our democracies so tired, exhausted, tired and weakened. Democracies that, very often, know more the banality than the heroisms. Aung San Suu Kyi, in fact, lives democracy in its radicality, as a choice that comes from this complexity of culture, from which we can learn a lot, which comes from concentration rather than from dissipation, from sacrifice more than from privilege, from rigor rather than from laxism, from dignity more than from vulgarity. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour, and with particular conviction, of the common agenda, on which the rapporteur, Rita Ghedini, has worked so well. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u36	I call the representative of the Government, to whom I ask whether she confirms her opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u37	Madam President, I confirm the Government's favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u38	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G1 agenda, presented by Senators Ghedini Rita and Stucchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1107, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Ceroni and Fornaro, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Ceroni.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u40	Madam President, the draft law under consideration, which was converted into law with amendments to Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August 2013, consists of 16 articles. In addition to the provisions concerning the IMU, the measure also contains other important rules. I would point out in this connection: the reopening of the credit lines for the purchase of the first house by young couples; changes in the rules on accounting systems and the deadlines for the adoption of the forecast budgets of local authorities; the refinancing of the integration fund; the increase in resources to deal with the issue of so-called exodus; the unblocking of an additional €7.2 billion in 2013 for the payment of debts of public administrations; the facilitated definition of judgments in the field of erorial liability. In this regard, I cannot, as mayor, stress the discomfort in which local authorities are operating, not only for the continuous cut of transfers, very heavy and operated to a drastic extent by the Monti Government, but also for the regulatory uncertainties to which they are subjected. The forecast balance sheet is the tool for programming the activity of the local institution and cannot be approved in practice because there is no counting of transfers to be relied on. In this way, local authorities are brought to a halt. Having said that, I leave it to Mr Fornaro to explain the other articles in more detail. I shall confine myself to making a few general comments on the tax policy issues raised by this decree. The present decree provides, after a long haul and spring, the abolition of the first instalment of the IMU on the main dwelling and on the land and buildings functional to the agricultural activities for the year 2013, term that had been thus extended by Decree-Law No 54. Certainly this is a step forward, however it is necessary to point out that it is necessary, at this particular moment, to carry out a general reform of real estate taxation, as was hoped for in Decree-Law No 54 of 2013 and how it would be right to put more order and make more clear and understandable to everyone the taxation of real estate. The measure unfortunately moves forward the conflict that has arisen between the two major parties to the Government: the PdL, in favour of the abolition of the IMU at least on the first house and on the agricultural buildings, and the PD, contrary to this choice. The abolition of the IMU on the first house and buildings functional to the agricultural activities, as well as on the buildings built by the manufacturer for the sale, the facilities on the properties granted in comodate to the relatives in a straight line have been chosen qualifying our electoral program and, to my knowledge, part of the agreements that have led to the formation of the government of broad agreements. The Italian families 80 percent own the house in which they live: the house is the pillar on which families must base the security of their future. Preserving it is therefore a moral duty of all of us, because those who do not protest it and manifest their discomfort and its difficulties (we have seen what happened last Saturday and these days). Owning a home has a strong impact on the quality of life of all citizens. The first benefit is the State, which does not have to provide for the accommodation of those who do not have a roof and benefits the country's general economy, because construction is a driving sector, around which more than 37 craft activities rotate. There is no difficulty in recognizing that the introduction of the IMU in 2012 triggered a vicious circle of pessimism, of reducing the value of buildings, of less wealth, of falling income, of falling consumption, of unemployment in buildings and related sectors. The experience lived would have recommended, in common sense, an organic, reasoned and thoughtful measure on real estate, because there are many issues that need to be addressed in a clear, balanced and decisive way to give certainty in the longer term. There's no need for buffer and rain measures. That does not seem to me to be the right way to proceed. The abolition of the first IMU instalment, the other rules I have mentioned and the adjustments to IRPEF taxation are in this measure. The reform of the land register is under discussion in the tax delegation measure. The waste tax and services (TRISE), consisting of the waste tariff (TARI) and the tax on indivisible services (TASI), tax deductions for restructuring and energy saving interventions are contained in the law of stability. We are faced with buffer measures which are certainly not good for this sector and I believe that we need a single text on the house. In the Stability Act, under examination by the Budget Commission, a tax is introduced in all municipalities of the national territory on municipal services, hereinafter referred to as TRISE, consisting of two components: the first one called TARI, which must cover the costs related to the management of municipal waste and assimilated waste started for disposal; the second one, called TASI, is intended to cover the costs related to the indivisible services of the Municipalities. The active subject is the Municipality on which insists the surface of the property. The presupposition of the TARI is the possession in any capacity and use of premises likely to produce municipal waste. It is useless to remember the turns made on the name and the methodology of calculation of this charge (TARSU, TIA, TARES and TARI time), that this year pays an iniquitous additional leap, unjust and incomprehensible of 0,30 euros per square metre of surface, to be transferred - we do not understand why - to the State. The changes contained in the measure take place out of time, after the municipalities have compiled the TARES deposit bulletins, modified the computer programs, performed impossible calculations. Now you can return to the TARSU, frustrating all the work done so far, and next year there will be a further change for the TARI. In the technical report annexed to the Stability Act, the new levy, with a rate of 1 per thousand, will bring to the municipalities 3,764 million euros, instead of the 3,331 million guaranteed by the old IMU on the main dwelling with a rate of 4 per thousand. The official accounts of the State Accounting Office are based on the base rate of 1 per thousand, but the maximum ceilings that the municipalities will be able to apply are much higher. On the main house, for example, the tax on indivisible services can reach up to 2,5 per thousand, while on the other IMU properties plus TASI will not be able to break through 11.6 per thousand (i.e. 10.6 per thousand as the maximum set for the IMU and 1 per thousand of base rate for the TASI). According to the census conducted by the Institute for Finance and the Local Economy (IFEL), the IMU on properties other than the main house was on average 9.3 per thousand. To reach 11.6 (the maximum ceiling for the sum of the two taxes) there are still 2.3 points missing. This means that TASI can grow on average 2.4 times compared to the standard minimum level of 1. Between 2.5 for the main dwellings and 2.3 for the rest, it can be increased by an average of 2.4. This would increase the revenue from 3,7 billion to 9 billion with the maximum rate. It is entirely peaceful that the tax burden on the brick is not going to decrease with the IMU's farewell. Of course, the distribution of the load changes slightly, but it is quite clear that the new taxation provided for in the Stability Act will lead to an increase in the tax burden on the real estate; an increase reinforced by the reform of the land register, which will also result in the increase of the cadastral extimes (which is clear there will be), as well as the increase of the maintenance costs. Of little importance is the possibility that the municipalities have to reset, for some social categories, the TASI, while I emphasize that in the end the municipal budgets in failure will apply everything on the increase. Well, I believe that the "ok" to the provision is mandatory, because there are so many other things that need to be done. But the question of the taxation of buildings, and especially of the main house, is only postponed and will be a major break in the law of stability, because it is not conceivable that we can carry around the citizens with whom we have made commitments in the electoral campaign. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u41	We anticipated a discussion that we will have in a few weeks. I call the rapporteur, Senator Fornaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u42	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating today is a passage (the President-in-Office of the Council has also made this clear in this House): it is the overcoming of the IMU on the first house and the transition to a service tax system, which is then defined in the Stability Act (TRISE) on which we will be able to return and confront ourselves. This decree intervenes on several cases. Obviously the main - as I said before - is that of the IMU. Article 1 provides - as we all know and have also proved, being also taxpayers - that the first instalment on the IMU experimental municipal tax is no longer due, which was suspended by Decree-Law No 54 of 2013. This decree, also with the work of the Chamber, introduces further examples of exemptions and facilitations, which I think is right to stress, because they have a significant importance and also show an ability to listen to the Commission's requests that have come from different production sectors and also from local administrations. They are in fact exempted from the second instalment of the IMU for the year 2013, and will be exempt from payment of the tax from 1 January 2014, the so-called goods, i.e. the buildings built and intended by the manufacturer for sale, as long as they remain such destination and are not in any case located. The main residence is also treated as the buildings belonging to the individual-owned housing cooperatives, as well as social housing, while for the housing regularly allocated by the ACPs or public housing agencies the tax deduction is to be applied to the extent provided for in the main dwelling. Moreover, it is expected the exemption from the IMU, from 2014, of the properties destined for scientific research and - this is another aspect that must be emphasized - are no longer required the conditions of the habitual residence and of the personal residence for the recognition of the main house owned by staff of the Armed Forces, the Police Forces and the Fire Department, as well as by personnel belonging to the prefectic career. An important element was introduced in Article 2-a, also in this case in response to a fair demand and demand. I am referring to the equalization of the main dwelling of the real estate units and their appliances, excluding high-quality dwellings (I remember that high-quality dwellings are excluded from the exemption on the first instalment of the IMU), granted in a convenient manner to relatives in a straight line within the first grade using them as their main residence. Basically, this is the framework in which we move on the IMU, mitigating, on a number of categories, the effects on this taxation and - as I said at the beginning - providing for non-payment in respect of the main dwelling. Then there are other important measures, always related to the house: action is taken by reducing the dry coupon for rent contracts agreed from 19 to 15 percent, in order to promote the re-emergence of the submerged in this sector; there is an important intervention, even quantitative, to facilitate the purchase of the first house by the young; there is an increase of the solidarity fund for the blameless morosity; there is the intervention of the Cassa depositi and loans on the banking system to get back the flywheel of the mortgages. Another important chapter of the decree is that concerning local finance. There is intervention on the TARES, collecting a request that came from the ANCI, thus enabling the municipalities to be able to choose also possibly to continue to apply the TARSU on the basis of the regulations of 2012. However, in Article 3 - particularly important - the first instalment is refunded to the municipalities, which may seem absolutely normal and due. I remember, however, that this timeliness was not there when the ICI was canceled on the first house. Today, therefore, the municipalities already have these amounts in cash. In order to try to help the municipalities in a complicated phase, there is also an advance of liquidity on the municipal solidarity fund of 2.5 billion, and in this context of uncertainty, of course, the municipalities are given the opportunity to approve the forecast budgets at 30 November. This is certainly an exceptional situation. The hope is that in 2014, having correctly set the service tax and the municipal revenue system, we can return to a deadline for the approval of forecast budgets that makes them actually such, because approving a budget estimate on November 30 is almost a contradiction in terms. It should also be remembered that a commitment made in this House by Minister Saccomanni, that is, to make available for the payment of the debts of the public administration an additional EUR 7.5 billion. In the measure there is also a social component: in fact, another 500 million is refinanced for the integration fund by way of derogation at the request of the regions - and this is a further tranche - and action is taken on the exodates. With regard in particular to exodus, there is a first quota of 6,500 people, essentially exodus by unilateral resolution of the employment relationship at the start of the so-called Fornero law - and here we are talking about an intervention that is worth 150 million on the 2014 budget - and there is another quota of 2,500 units, added during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, including persons who were on leave at the time of the implementation of the norm to assist families in serious and very serious conditions. This is basically the picture within which we move. Finally, I would like to make one point which I do not want to hide from, because I believe that the examination of this measure is also an opportunity to make some clarity in this regard. There has been and will of course also be a debate in this House on Article 14, which essentially intervenes in administrative and accounting disputes before the Court of Auditors, taking up a rule that was already contained in the 2006 Finance Act. Basically, we are going to facilitate the possibility of closing these disputes with the payment of 25% of the erarial damage established by a judgment of first instance, percentage, which can also be reduced to 20 if it is shown that payment has been made by a certain date of November. It would have sufficed to define on the basis of what is currently the overall extent of the dispute before the Court of Auditors, i.e. more than EUR 3 billion. The technical report specifies the issue of games. I really invite my colleagues to take a look at the Reading Cards, on pages 104 and 105, because it helps a lot to understand how this choice of government came about and from where it started. I have read on more than one occasion, even during the last election campaign, many articles and posts around the phantom presence of 98 billion euros that the State did not want to bring home for who knows what interests are hidden. Things are different. In 2007 the regional prosecutor of Lazio sued ten concessionaires of the public service of activation and operational management of the network. He basically highlighted a series of failures for which he calculated for every day of late start-up in the connection a series of penalties that reached the figure, extraordinarily large, of 98 billion euros. This figure concerned disputed defaults to dealers in the start-up phase between 2004 and 2005. However, with a judgment of the Court of Auditors of 2012, this figure was reduced to EUR 2.5 billion. It is on this present dispute that the norm intervenes, which essentially gives the possibility, if there are conditions, to reach 25% of this figure or to 20. I felt that I should look into this because I think it is right here to make some clarity around it. I would like to end by thanking my colleagues from the Commission, inviting and giving the opportunity, also shared by the co-rapporteur and the Government, to turn a number of amendments into agendas. In fact, as everyone knows, the decree in our examination is essentially, let's say, armored and therefore there was no possibility of accepting any amendments. The risk otherwise - I say it trivially - was that next week the Italians had to pay the first installment of the IMU. I confirm this availability and I believe that today we are taking a step towards the more general objective of redefining real estate taxation, on which, I remember, the Finance Commission has done a good job in recent months. There are many ideas, some of which are contained in the law of stability which can certainly be improved on the principle of fairness, applying a general principle dear to my Group that - let me say this - those who have more must give more. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fravezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u45	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, an anonymous letter was sent to my Senate mailbox today. He took a picture of all 15 colleagues in the Senate's Parliamentary Election and Immunity Council who had voted for the decadence of Senator Berlusconi. Under the photos of each of these colleagues it was written: "He who lives for hatred and the prejudice of hatred perishes. Be ready that even the Eternal Father does not save you from this end. Below this sentence was the historical photo of Piazzale Loreto with the bodies of the duke, Claretta Petacci and Bombacci hanging upside down. I believe that the fact is self-explanatory, as a demonstration of the climate of barbarism in which our country is falling.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u46	This is a serious matter and I hope that the person responsible can be identified by the Postal Police.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u47	I declare the general discussion open. She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u48	Madam President, this is yet another omnibus measure, yet another meatloaf which, according to some, contains a multiplicity of untied materials without a common thread. I personally believe that I have identified common denominators in this bill, and in many others, and these common denominators are called hypocrisy and opacity. This measure is nothing more than smoke in the eyes of the citizens, who want to believe that they have abolished a tax, the IMU, certainly unfair; but - alas! - it is not so; and it is not because, in reality, the only thing that will change with the new law of stability is only and exclusively the name [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : You will go from IMU to TASI and it will all be a taxi game. First the maximum rate was 6 per thousand: it will become 2.5. Before there were deductions before home and dependent children: they will no longer exist. Do you have any idea what it means for those who do not arrive at the end of the month even giving up 50 euros for each child? If math isn't an opinion, that's called cheating. Without considering - and here comes the beauty - that it will then be up to the municipalities to determine which rate to apply with a margin of 1 to 2,5 per thousand and introduce, at their discretion, facilities or exemptions for income bands. I ask you: do you think that the municipalities, whose large part is in serious difficulty, will choose to make their residents pay the minimum? I don't think so. Are you gonna tell them you're kidding them? We are trying to stop you from doing that with any amending proposal, but you make it every time! It seems that you do it on purpose to produce poorly written and purposely designed laws that do not work, just because you are unable to decide, and then pretend to decide. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Seneca said: the law must be short, so that the inexperienced may understand it too; but you want the opposite, that is, that the citizen does not understand anything, and it is for this reason that every standard launched follows a derogation. And there are 63,000 rules of derogation that question the remaining survival of the rule, Ainis reminded us in one of his editorials. You like to include everything and more in the provisions: history of the law on drugs slipped in haste and fury in the Olympic decree in August 2006. But even today, in this measure on the IMU, you have thought well to put in the condons for the operators of the slot machines (the rapporteur was reminding us first), granting a small discount of up to 80% to the ten concession companies, which would have had to pay the treasury compensation of about two and a half billion, not the 89. We had already adapted to take less; now they're going to get away with 500 million, which is nothing. Another aspect contained in this decree, which in my opinion could conceal enormous risks to the state budget, is that the Deposit and Loan Bank can buy mortgage-backed bank bonds. I am reminded of the case of US companies that have defaulted; we hope well at least. Then reference is made to the INPS, but the recent Fornero reform is not fully implemented, which has continued to ignore certain categories of workers... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Bottici. BOTTICS (M5S). Does the silent contributions mean anything to you? I don't think so. I have tabled a number of acts including a question and an amendment. The Director-General of INPS Mauro Nori said that several million workers were affected by this problem, but even today in the Commission it has not been taken into account. In conclusion, today in the Commission, the Government, without even reading it, cashed out the agenda that asked to take action, because if the INPS were to return these contributions would go into default: in this case there are people who are paying contributions and who will never take the pension. If, therefore, this decree is armored, we could have used our time better, not to make a farce today and look for real solutions for the citizens. We know we can't change anything. [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] But let's not make fun of each other anymore. The citizens outside are hungry: we must try to save them. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u49	Senator Bottici, the time at your disposal is over.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u50	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, in principle it was the tax for the disposal of municipal solid waste, the famous TARSU, then - but only as an optional choice - the so-called Ronchi tariff was introduced, better known as TIA1. In 2006 he followed the environmental code, which established the tariff for the management of municipal waste, or the so-called TIA2. Too bad that the principle of "paying on the basis of the quantity of waste produced" caused an increase in the phenomenon of the abandonment of garbage. On the other hand, we are in Italy, not in Switzerland or Tyrol, so over 80% of the municipalities preferred to stay with the old TARSU. In December 2011, finally, the Monti Government, then so acclaimed and praised by the so-called "best press" and international financial markets, introduced the TARES, with effect from 2013. The aim was to make clarity and unity on a topic - that of waste service - where there is nothing clear and stable at all. Result: a total failure. Yes, because if the tribute to waste metaphorically became the protagonist of a film, it could only be a horror film, in which the murderer is the State and the victims are the poor families and businesses, many of which, since 1 October, are also dealing with the system of traceability of waste (SISTRI), a system born old, expensive, that wastes time and that does not even work. Can you think of something more chaotic or delirious than the situation that has arisen in our country, as regards precisely the tax on waste? I don't think so. This tribute, as I recall, was designed by the previous Government in the same measure, so-called save Italy, which stated the entry into force of the IMU, which has reintroduced after three years the tax on the first house and which has more than doubled the levy on the remaining real estate, in particular on sheds and workshops, which should instead represent, for economic activities, an instrumental asset necessary to produce wealth and jobs. The TARES and the IMU are two tributes by definition of a local nature, but only in words, because they are designed to allow the central state to heal the miserable public coffers, requiring the mayors to act as collectors, forcing them to suffer the wrath of taxpayers. These are two taxes that, accompanied by the large cuts in transfers to local authorities, are responsible for the collapse of consumption, the crisis in the real estate market and the worsening of the already complex financial situation of the companies. They are also responsible for the massive increase in local taxation, which the so-called best press detects in 500 percent, but only to throw mud and reject fiscal federalism, which has actually not yet taken off. Those who live and listen to the real country - I am more and more convinced that it is a small minority within Parliament - had immediately understood that the application of TARES would create serious problems also application: an enormous amount of work of the tribute offices of the Municipalities, forced to distangle themselves with illogical parameters; the creation of higher taxes for the large families, for the commercial exercises, for the bars, the restaurants, the florists, the fruit growers and for all the companies, in general, that are already heavily paying the economic crisis present in the country. Yet in June the so-called decree unlocks public administration debts, intervening on the TARES, was the best opportunity to freeze everything, at the limit confirming only the contribution of the indivisible services, equal to one billion euros of oxygen to the state coffers, but postponing the TARES to 2014 thus allowing the municipalities, for the current year, to re-propose the current system in 2012. The Government's understanding of moving from 2014 to a review of the taxation of real estate was already known. The North League presented amendments to this effect, both to the House and to the Senate, but they were rejected in total indifference. Now, after months, only after collecting the vibrant protests of the users/electors, the majority in the House, introducing amendments with an admirable pirouette, allows in fact to re-propose the TARSU discipline of 2012, confirming only the small increase to pay the indivisible services: 30 cents per square meter of property, which citizens and businesses will have to pay to the Erario at the end of the year with the hated F24. Colleagues! But do we realize that we are now at the end of the year and that many municipal administrations, certainly the virtuous ones, have already deliberated the TARES for some time and sent the payment bulletins with the amounts of the payments and the balance of the end of the year? Well, many mayors, if you've heard them, are once again mocked. Do you know that in many municipalities the citizens have already paid the down payment? This is the demonstration that Government and Parliament are far from the real country, from the first lines constituted by mayors, many of which have long not only deliberated the TARES but also the budget, without waiting for 30 November and the quantification of the state transfers, because, otherwise, with the provisional exercise they would not be able to give effective answers to their community. The municipalities that will therefore be able to re-propose the 2012 tribute will be few. Certainly those who live, who perhaps do not care if their citizens pay the service, as happens in several municipalities in the South, where less than 50% of the cost costs are recovered by the users, while the rest falls on the community. The majority of the municipalities are therefore still mocked. For citizens, however, the increase in the VAT rate was not sufficient nor was the IMU sufficient and the increases in the excise duty of petrol or the excise duty from the cultural profile of alcohol to finance the Uffizi of Renzi or the MAXXI of Melandri, arrives, at the end of the year also the TARES obolo to pay the garbage service. It is a really bitter panettone that is prepared for Italians, practically indigestible [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , and if the panettone is bitter, the befana will carry the black coal: it will be called TRISE, in the wider container of the law of stability, which means more taxes than in 2013, as attested today by "Il Sole 24 Ore". Italy therefore confirms itself as an uncivilized country because deceptively it makes the taxes disappear to make them emerge heavier under another name. On the other hand, do you have news of a civil country in which the forecast budgets are made at 30 November of the current year, so only for a twelfth of the year, when the serious companies, and the municipalities should be equated, should approve it at the latest by December of the year before? You have news of a civil country where municipalities, provinces and regions have huge resources to invest in, work to be done to companies in economic crisis, but can't they do it for the Stability Pact? Do you have any news of a civilized country with skyrocketing real estate taxation, when some of its cities have 40 percent and more of abusive homes and 100 percent of homes without a water meter? The measure under consideration here today, in essence, does not change the plot of the film that Italy has been projecting for decades, that of a country in which the usual are always paying, a country at two speeds, with a North that produces and a South that runs out. A country that introduces a tax, like the IMU, and then modify it many times, as for example happened for the exemptions of agricultural activities and warehouse houses, or of the sheds, the famous categories cadastral D, whose proceeds in 2013 all go to the State for the establishment of a solidarity fund to the municipalities, whose distribution criteria - attention - will certainly reserve bitter surprises especially for the municipalities of the North. 18.25 p.m. (Follow Arrigoni). We have a government that eliminates the first installment of the IMU, without having any certainty of the necessary coverage, like the 600 million that should come from the dealerships of the playrooms. A completely unfounded forecast because it is very likely that dealers will stay in court and do not accept the transaction, and if they do it will be for a percentage of 20%; so, how do we cover the 120 million euros that will fail? Do we bet that the safeguard clauses, which will once again consist of yet another increase in IRES and IRAP, with good company peace? We have a government, then, that promises to eliminate also the second installment IMU on the first house without explaining to anyone when and how this will happen. Families who have deleted the word IMU from the vocabulary, pushed at the end of August by the enthusiasm of some minister, when will they know if this is eliminated or not? And what do we tell the owners of sheds that had been illusory by the Government about the possibility of deduceing 50% of the IMU applied to their sheds from corporate income, unless we discover the next day by reading the text of the decree-law that such forecast had skipped? Colleagues, we are about to convert a decree-law in whose report, which shows today's date of 23 October, the Ministry of Economy and Finance states that the equivalence to the first house of the real estate unit granted in convenient use to relatives of first degree (faculty that may exercise the Municipalities) presents strong aspects of criticality in relation to the contributions granted by the State as a refreshment to the Municipalities for the least revenue, equal to 18,5 million euros. Gentlemen of the Government, isn't this the time to remove this criticality? What are we waiting for? In conclusion, a decree-law that carries with it the elimination of the first installment of the IMU is to be welcomed, but this decree will ensure that between the citizens and the enterprises will reign still much uncertainty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u52	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must stress three aspects of the decree-law, but make a premise. We know that the decree-law is armored, so let us say that it cannot be the subject of amendments, but I would not like to see a timetable given to us as the responsibility of the House. I stress this because if decrees-laws as extraordinarily relevant as this, not marginal, are brought to the Senate definitively armored, this will be relegated to a role of letterhead. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] I doubt that this is one of the functions for which the Senate is called upon to legislate, especially when it comes to matters of such importance. The three accents. With regard to the IMU, my opinion, old, not ancient, is that the first and only property, daughters of the savings of families, should not be subject to any form of taxation. It is not true the judgment for which elsewhere in the world the house is subject almost everywhere to taxation: it is not valid for Italy, and we should stop taking examples from time to time depending on what we find convenient, because each country has different forms of savings. In Italy 75 percent of the population owns the house: the house is a good refuge. If we lived in the United States or Scandinavian countries, we would use different forms of savings. Not by chance, we are the only country in the world that keeps in a strict way a proverb that in no other European country exists. The proverb, which will now go into disuse in Italy, is as follows: wife and oxen of your countries. Behind this proverb is preserved not a generic popular saying, but the savings linked to the house, because in Italy, until the last generation, lived in a territory, was born in that territory, was found work in that territory and was married, precisely, in that territory. I would add that the vulnus within this criterion has been introduced because there has been no measurement of wealth, and here we have failed to have a fundamental criterion laid down in the Constitution. Today we have pensioners who receive the minimum pension and who have an accommodation of two or three rooms of property to which, rightly, we do not charge the IMU, but we do not charge it to those who are in a completely different condition of wealth. That's the mistake. The mistake is to have given way politically to those who have imposed an unfair measure that has a return weight, for example, on local administrations. Mayors using the IMU to cover primary personal services will find themselves in difficulty. Starting to conclude, my opinion is as follows: we cannot leave the mayors of more than 8,000 Italian municipalities in their underwear. I have seen that measures are planned for about two billion euros of state interventions in place of the lack of income deriving from the IMU, but we should do the opposite of what the previous government has done, namely to demand and legally support as just the position that the 4 billion ICI condoned to the Vatican for non-charitable and solidarity activities are being taken up and given to the municipalities to cover the services to the person. The last question I would like to raise concerns Article 6, where we are talking about relaunching the home market. I could have tabled an amendment which could be approved, and I would have written that within that article measures should have been envisaged concerning the opening up of the house market to young couples - all young couples, of different sizes - recalling the Charter of Nice of 2000, where there is talk of plurality of families, because it is only giving them preferential loans and the possibility of resorting to the purchase that can be put back into motion the Italian real estate market. In conclusion, the decree-law in question should - but did not - immediately marry the criterion of shifting taxation from work and production to annuity; it was an extraordinary opportunity lost. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u54	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u55	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, members of the Government, Mariano Rumor, Giulio Andreotti, Giovanni Spadolini, Ciriaco De Mita, Lamberto Dini and Silvio Berlusconi: they are six Presidents of the Council who in forty years have placed as many as 15 condons (tax sanatoria, currency pardon, tax maxicon, building sanatoria, paying on taxes on waste, fiscal and formal irregularities, real estate sanatoria, condoning tombale, condoning building, fiscal arrangement, sanatoria for accounting records and finally the fiscal shield). If I forgot something, help me you, who were mostly here and voted for them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Giulio Tremonti in 2003 even made the double - building and fiscal pardon together - but he himself in the past had declared that in South America the tax pardon is done after the coup d'état; in Italy, before the elections. Now President Letta no longer needs the Bilderberg club, he also wants the card of the club of condons and, blackmailed by the prejudiced Berlusconi who wants to abolish the IMU on the first house, unable to implement the cuts and savings that we have proposed and indicated, takes advantage of it to lower a pardon for the companies that have not connected the slot machines to the control system of the State Monopoly, so that for years the sums played in thousands of machines were not even detected. The sanctions were clear (50 euros per hour of violation, altogether 98 billion), but the Court of Auditors recalculated the penalty on the basis of the alleged damage and lowered the amount to 2.5 billion. With the decree-law under consideration, the Letta Government offered companies the opportunity to resolve the issue with 600 million, 25% of the debt. The press immediately identified it as a condone slot and the same technical report of the Budget Service states that the most important judgment is that of the dealers of the slot machines. I said this at the beginning of September: this is a "ad societatem" rule, tailor-made for gambling lobbyists. I also added what was recently confirmed also by President Monti, that the Government is under check by Berlusconi, and I said therefore that the companies have announced that they do not intend to pay and will certainly want in return something more. The negotiation has been confirmed by the Undersecretary Baretta - which I see below - and, while the Court of Auditors recommended at least to raise to 30% the quota to be requested, on 15 October the Chamber was voted paragraph 2-a, of Article 14, which still lowers the request to 20%, provided that within that same day the companies had submitted the questions and demonstrated that they have already paid that 20%. But who pays millions of euros in advance before they know if the decree will be approved and before the application is accepted? Who pays 20% instead of 25% before they know that the amendment would be voted on? It seems clear to me that he spoke directly to the tailor and had his dress sewed. At this point, as a citizen, I ask: if I go with the red, do I pay only on the basis of the alleged damage? And I can deal with Equitalia, asking the Minister for a direct meeting in order to be able to agree on a lower sum? It is hateful that this market costs, in terms of health, social and tax losses, well more than the revenue it offers. It's hateful that he takes away oxygen from companies, penalising jobs and businesses... president. Senator Endrizzi, finishes his speech; he may deliver the text to the Offices. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We cannot accept, however, that all this should be done for the benefit of the gambling lobby that finances politics and we cannot accept that the escamotage has already been studied if these companies, strong in the power they have, refuse to pay, by raising the IRAP and IRES accounts. Is that the respect that you bring to business? We're not in. We've given up. [[The microphone automatically disables Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u56	Senator Endrizzi, you've run out of time. We even gave her extra time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u57	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u58	Mr President, I am here because we had a small debate in the Commission, which is very interesting: we have examined the mitre-shaped amendments, one shot after another, automatically and without any thought. This measure has in fact arrived at the Senate to be approved without changes and, possibly, even without receiving addresses that, in my opinion, would be useful to welcome also by the Government. This is a measure on which we call for substantial confidence: no amendments are tabled because we do not accept them so much; do not put formal trust, but, in essence, it is as if you presented it. I have reserved myself, of all the amendments we have tabled, to suggest the transformation of an amendment to the agenda. This amendment concerned the safeguard clause. As you know, since we are uncertain about the outcome of this measure, especially as regards the respect of balances, the Government has identified a way by which to guarantee this respect with a safeguard clause. I have had the opportunity to say in the Commission, and I think it would be useful to repeat it in this House, that the safeguard clause, introduced by Article 15, provides for resources to be recovered through the increase in IRES and IRAP consents and through the increase in excise duties provided for in Council Directive 2008/118/EC. IRAP, as you teach me, Mr President, and as I am also taught by the Government, is one of the taxes considered most unfair by the production system - by companies, workers and trade unions - because it is one of those that contributes to a substantial tax burden on businesses and labour. On this subject, rather than on the other hand, because our amendment suggested a different coverage: the increase in taxation on rents. This is the difference of philosophy between a very large majority, which should make the measures that the country needs, and a residual minority, which does not even have the strength to have an agenda accepted on a subject like this, with which to invite the Government to evaluate the possibility of doing so, etc. This has not been accepted in the Commission either, and I have not even protested. I accepted this decision because it shows a contradiction in the politics of the majority and the government: on the one hand, we meet the social partners, we are proud to have attacked the tax wedge, to have in perspective the idea of reducing taxes on business and work and to relaunch the economy and, on the other hand, we write the exact opposite! If the opposition then represents a doubt on the political one, that is on the policy that the government promised, the government answers: I do not even accept the agenda for you, i.e. an invitation to consider the possibility. Here, Senators, is the problem of this country: finding consistency, not with respect to what others want to impose us, but with respect to what we say and promise the country, businesses and workers. I would have done something else, too, compared to the IMU. I am not one of those who think that you don't have to pay a small asset on the house if you have the money to do it, in a situation like this, where the crisis of the country is important and where the construction sector - be careful - is one of those that pays the highest price. There are unemployment rates that have been achieved in that sector which are very important. There is a price drop in the real estate market. Those who invested a portion of their pension on the son's house, convinced that they also safeguarded the value of what he had earned by working, the money he had collected with the work of his own life, today discovers that that property that paid 100 is worth 70, and has a loss of value. I would then have done a slightly opposite operation: I would have raided the money that the IMU allowed us to rake up to invite the Municipalities to make investments to make public building recovery, but also private, that is to make our cities more beautiful by enhancing also the outside of our homes; to put together to work artisan enterprises, to make shared prizes, to make more visible and more appreciated the urban landscape. What did we do instead? To those who had the money, we returned the money; to those who did not have a job, we did not build a condition to be able to work; to those who aspire to have work, we said that if this system does not work we go to increase the IRAP, so we burden companies and employment even more fiscally. This provision is wrong because it is so. Then we can find other surface measures, which are also found in the individual provisions, in the individual rules, but the philosophy that this measure expresses is contradictory to the policy that the government would like to pursue and which indeed announces as the philosophy of budgetary maneuvering and the law of stability. Because little is enough, a small contradiction on a promised path to bring down the credibility of those who represent that path. I would have been content with an agenda with a commitment to assess, if possible, an intervention, but of course I will not present it, because I do not want to give the Government the opportunity to remedy the mistake made in the Commission either. In fact, I want all of us to reflect on this issue. On the other hand, I accept the suggestion that a Minister representing the Government in the Budget Committee has come to make a reasoning about the coverage for the Stability Act: only if we identify the coverage consistently with respect to the objectives of the maneuver, this Parliament and also the Government will be credible towards the country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u59	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary, we have repeatedly called on the Government to intervene decisively and quickly in order to safeguard all those workers who, at the time of the adoption of the recent pension reform, were close to meeting the pension requirements and were either out of the labour market or out of the labour market. We have also asked for the precise number of these citizens called exodus, divided into the different categories, and we do not question the efforts that the INPS and the Territorial Directorates of Labour have made and continue to make to provide us, one day, perhaps next, such data. We must also remember that at the beginning of the parliamentary term Minister Giovannini indicated in a week or fifteen days the time needed to provide us with the required data. Nor can we deny that in an affair such as that of exodus the numerical factor is fundamental in order to be able to evaluate the goodness or not of safeguard measures such as those provided for in Articles 11 and 11-a of this decree, when the benefits are granted within the maximum limits for protected subjects. With the Fornero reform of the pension, designed to make cash, a real transitional discipline has not been dictated, so we proceed with buffer measures, delayed over time, absolutely insufficient and not decisive to face the situation of people to whom, citing the President of the Council Letta in his speech to the Chambers for the request of trust, the national community has broken a pact. If it is true what has been stated by the Undersecretary for the job and the social policies, Professor Carlo Dell'Aringa, that we must take note with realism that with the reform Fornero has opened a frightening social flaw, it is incomprehensible to us the slowness with which the Government is proceeding in dealing with a drama experienced by hundreds of thousands of Italian families. It is incredible, two years after the pension reform, to find again commenting on a measure that does not definitively resolve what the candidate in second place of the PD, Cuperlo, rightly called a shame. The Minister argues that there has been intervention to protect the category characterized by greater fragility. But many other workers - equally, if not more fragile - still remain unheard of; like those who have had the misfortune to be fired perhaps in a small company, without being able to take advantage of cash integration or mobility, without incentives to escape, without slides for retirement or without financial resources to pay voluntary contributions and that find themselves unable to be safeguarded, because they cannot meet the minimum contribution requirement for retirement pension. On the other hand, the safeguards so far given birth had been largely intended for categories that could already legitimately enjoy social shock absorbers, figurative contributions, corporate incentives with which many workers had guaranteed not only a minimum income until retirement, but in some cases they were able to pay the missing contribution with voluntary payments and thus mature the requirements required for retirement pension. It becomes, therefore, incomprehensible where the fairness of social security legislation lies where the pension is not payable in the same way by all those who have the same personal and contributory requirements, but is subordinate to the business dimension by means of legislation of a privileged nature. We are well aware that fairness has certainly not been the benchmark for pension reforms that in recent years have upset the economic expectations of those who today work and do not enjoy and will not enjoy pensions calculated according to the old pay method. The crisis has fallen like an ax on this already unfair transition between the old method of calculation, the most advantageous, and the new contributory method, making it necessary and urgent to better distribute the sacrifices to be sustained between generations. It cannot be only young people and workers who have not yet acquired the right to a pension to pay, in essence, the costs of reform and the debt crisis. Given the lengthening of the retirement age, the lower turnover, the lower work and the lower contributions and the awareness of paying a plethora of guaranteed and untouchable, how it is possible that young people have not already taken pitchforks will be the subject of debate of historians of the future, but it is also a question that many already ask themselves. If the Constitution really does not seem to allow us to intervene on the privileges of golden pensions (but not only), there is only one solution: to change the Constitution. As has been done in order to include a balanced budget, it can be done in order to facilitate actions of equity between generations. We understand the difficulty, also technical, of acting for individual buffer measures, trying to bring back accounts which cannot be reconciled with the need for fair pension reform. But this difficulty derives also from a system of social shock absorbers now obsolete and unfair and from the lack of will to intervene on the many privileges that the political system has given birth. There is no need for counter-reforms, there is a need to abolish unfair measures, ATM measures against citizens, such as the Fornero maneuver, reform the system of social shock absorbers and safeguard the fairness and dignity of all citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u61	She is registered to speak Senator D'Onghia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Government, this representative of the IMU for us at Civic Choice was, even in the election campaign, a very important subject. As you all know, we did not agree to delete the IMU on all the first houses: we felt that this should be done differently and that many things should be considered. Anyway, okay, if the covers are there, and we'll be careful about that, so that it doesn't become an illusion destined to bring higher taxes. The choices relating to the IMU on the first house are fine, but we must make it clear, because even in the new law of stability we still do not know how it will be carried forward and how this speech will become stable, so that families and businesses can make their own accounts even before buying a house, knowing if they have to make sacrifices and if it is right to make them for them and their children. We have presented to the House, where it has been approved, and to the Senate an agenda in which we are asking to exclude the possibility of increasing other taxes to cover this tax as of now. For us this is very important, otherwise we really fall into tax illusionism, and this is something that is not good for our country and is not good for investors who must arrive here. As far as companies are concerned, the question of building tax is very important: business buildings are not protected at the moment. The fact that we cannot deduct this tax from income creates even more difficulties for companies, which at the moment even have the sheds that must be used for empty work. So it's useless for us to talk about work in our country, if we continue to tarass companies. The sheds do not serve to have fun, they serve to work; therefore it would be right to at least be able to deduct this tax so important from income and this instead is not done. The issue we are concerned about is that of cover, which provides, inter alia, for exemption from tax on buildings built and intended for sale. These covers are indicated in points (e) and (f) of paragraph 3 of Article 15: if these covers are not there, we will go once again to hit companies with higher advances on IRES and IRAP. It would therefore be important for these covers to be found, but it certainly does not seem right for them to be linked to a willingness to pay for those who have escaped, because this is not fair to decent citizens, who continue to pay taxes, make sacrifices and work in this country. It would therefore be important to charge the evaders. I remember, in this regard, the pardon that has been made towards those who with the slot machines has been enriched, even to the detriment of the poor citizens who in the slot machines have the perception of being able to regain a place within society. So it is important that the government seeks cover in these provisions and not in others, not in those that then always hit companies. It would also be important to understand why only 20 percent of deduction is being thought of in the law of stability. This is a sum that - as you know - does not create; it is a sum that must be deducted from wealth, because the law is very clear: everything that is a cost to the enterprise, taxes and everything that goes to reduce the wealth of the enterprise must be possible to deduct it. So it is important that the government, in the law of stability that we are verifying these days, finds the resources for detaxation not of 20%, but of 100% of this which is a tax that must be paid anyway and that therefore must be reduced from the income of enterprise. Therefore, it is important for families, but it is also important for businesses, if we want the work in this country to become really an important part and if we want entrepreneurs not to be discouraged and not to go away, because then in the end, by discouraging entrepreneurs, we will no longer be able to create jobs, because that only creates them. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Berger. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u63	Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u64	Mr President, it is with some regret that we at GAP will vote against this decree, even though it contains some rules that I believe to be acceptable. I am referring first of all to the exemption from the IMU, as from 1 January 2014, for buildings intended exclusively for the conduct of scientific research activities which do not have the sole or principal purpose of carrying out commercial activities. It also provides for an increase in the financial envelope to cover the debts of regional health services and a further increase in the total budget of advances to local authorities and regions. Finally, there is the exclusion from the linear reduction for the year 2013 of the financial allocations available for research and innovation, school education and university education. Despite this, we will vote against this decree, because it still appears to us as a simple transposition of acronyms. In fact, an effective cut that significantly affects the pockets of Italians has not been operated and realized. In addition, the innumerable properties of religious confessions, often used for profit, have once again been exempt from taxation. We cannot allow a cut of this kind in a time of crisis such as the present one. For this series of reasons, the vote of our member of the Mixed Group on the measure will be against. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u65	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u66	Mr President, why should we care, rather than care about the living conditions of our people? Why? I leave to the sensitivity of each one the answer, although, I confess, I would like to read the answer of some... or maybe not, maybe not. The living conditions of its citizens fall within the greatest concept of the system of social policies, where each member has the right to social citizenship, that is, all are equal in relation to the rights and duties of which every human being is endowed (in fact, he should be endowed). From here comes the principle of equality and at the same time the condition of a citizen belonging to a community. Everyone is obliged to contribute to public expenditure because of their capacity to contribute and someone, competing more than others, might perhaps feel more belonging to the community than another with a lower capacity to contribute, or even might feel more equal than others. I don't see you smiling. Yet, if we analyse this very last concept well, we find it in the words of some criminally convicted of tax evasion: I have contributed so much! And I'd add, and maybe the law should be more the same for you than for the others, huh? If this inauspicious principle passes, the whole apparatus of fundamental rights of equality decays. The social state, the social security, the promotion of the principles of equality, the help to those in need, to those who are still behind is what a community must have in mind, to which it must aspire. A state that continues to take away from the weak to give to the strong is not a community, but a party-caste state, not a community. In the last legislature PdL, PD, UDC have made the biggest and most disgusting mistake that Italy's history has seen: the inclusion in the Constitution of the balance of the budget, better known with fiscal compact anglicism. We're not the only ones who say that. Before us there were some "personcine" such as Arrow, Nobel laureate for the economy in 1972; Diamond, an economist specializing in social security policies; Sharp, a Nobel laureate for the economy in 1990; Maskin, a Nobel laureate for the economy in 2007; Solow, a Nobel laureate for the economy in 1987; and Krugman, a Nobel laureate for the economy in 2008, who also pointed out that the inclusion in the Constitution of the constraint on balance can lead to the dissolution of the social state. We are moving away from the principle of equality, and by far! So why should we care about the living conditions of our people? Because, first of all, it is written in the laws of nature. And then, it is the duty of a State to become a community and remove the economic and social obstacles referred to in the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Italian Republic. You've done something else: a soulless pension reform! And now it's your turn to make messy patches. The measure finally refinances the integration fund by way of derogation. Well, more than good! But one thing has not been said: out here there are thousands of families, of workers who are still waiting to be paid for their contributions by way of derogation from the previous months. The government, the Ministry of Labour and that of the economy have not yet issued the due decrees... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u67	You can finish the sentence, Senator Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u68	PUGLIA (M5S). Therefore, the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Economic Affairs have not yet issued the due implementing decrees that serve to implement the old IGCs by way of derogation. Mr President, I would like to add the full text of my speech to the shorthand report of today's sitting. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u69	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u70	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u71	Mr President, I have been warning you that the last sentence has neither points nor commas, so I will probably not be able to conclude it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u72	Start with the first and then we'll get to the last one.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u73	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Nomen omen: a name a destiny, Mr President. The Latin maxim, even after many centuries, is still valid, and perhaps never like on this provision, is very suitable for him. I am referring to the IMU decree, which is a single municipal tax, which is indeed an armored decree: no amendments, very good; no agendas, probably, again very well. What's more local than a tribute to your city hall? I think nothing at all. Too bad that once again the Italian State masks behind beautiful words and praiseworthy intentions yet another centralist gabella. Someone from the Executive said that the IMU was inherited by the previous Government: just, it was an extended family before, and the succession, as you teach me, happened to another family, always extended. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] The inheritance may also be refused. You didn't. Or rather, the inheritance cannot be rejected only partially and therefore you have had to accept in total both the honors and the burdens, the joys and the pains, which you probably did not hold for you, but which will be poured out on the citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Campanella and Fucksia]] But just like the previous Government, whose survivors today, at the song of the rooster, are screaming to deny it, we are today discussing a measure that, in your opinion, should overcome forever the errors introduced by the previous Executive, the Monti Government. After twenty months of referrals, compensations, decrees-laws, interpretative circulars, suspensions and delays, the Government presents a decree repealing the IMU on the first houses. Well, I'd say, very well, that's good news, President! In 2014, it is certain, the IMU will no longer weigh in the pockets of Italian citizens. We are all happy, PdL, Civic Choice and above all the PD, who sees his Government succeed where the others had tried without any results. Nice mystery, mystery of mysteries! We also wondered how they did it. Those who have read the papers these days will be asked at home. How could they be so aware, good and forward-looking? Yet, the lives of local administrations depend on these taxes. Better still, it was not dependent on these taxes but it was possible to trigger a mechanism that was not virtuous in such a way that all the mayors would look bad with their voters. And here the italic genius gives the best of himself. In 2014 the IMU tax (single municipal tax) will disappear and with it will disappear the TARES, the TARSU and the additional IRPEF. Well again, Mr President, very well! All this, however, will be replaced by a single tax, perhaps by the English name, more winky and modern, which will affect all these acronyms. It will have a different name but it will still be a tax, a tax that will be the sum of the previous ones and whose total, of course, will be rounded up for excess. This year the municipalities will have to prepare the budget by 30 November and the mayors have started to play the numbers to the lot to guess how much they will have available resources. At this point, Mr President, we have to go crazy to draw up the budget at the end of the year. On the contrary, Mr President, let us do this at the same time as the final budget: it will be a good system to say that we have been good and to avoid at least the changes in the budget, so that we do not break the boxes of the municipal employees. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] While we discuss how you would like to review local taxation, the Revenue Agency provides us with extremely interesting data about its study of ghost buildings: over two million properties absolutely unknown to the treasury, which have never paid, which do not pay and will never pay taxes. Does it make sense to talk about real estate tax reform when the state doesn't even know about entire cities running from the tax? Does it make sense to talk about increases, deductions and rates to those who have built a nice little house on the promenade abusively? It's great to have a house on the promenade, ma'am! I am referring now not to you, Mr President, but to President Letta, who - as someone in the House said - is the President who is not here: you said that the IMU decree will not be the decree of miracles. Mr President, don't do these miracles anymore! We don't have to worry about it. I wouldn't want him to be a saint. Mr. President Letta, you didn't find the money to cover the IMU, but to a maxi tax evasion you responded with a maxicon. I am referring to that megacondon reserved to the operators of slot machines defined by some mechanical elements that are haunting this country.They do not even dress too much masked within the decree that allowed the same deletion of the IMU. Two billion discounted by this Executive! Then divide the blame; I don't know. Meanwhile, citizens are using their salaries and savings to pay their taxes, without being able to spend them in the virtuous circle of the real economy: a fall in consumption that every day is causing the closure of companies, commercial activities, production activities and shops. Then, luckily, ISTAT comes to the rescue of all of us. According to ISTAT, Mr President, in 2012 the purchasing power of Italian households fell by 4.7% (yes, always the President who is below you!), but someone claims that the figure is much higher. In July 2013, the index of industrial production decreased significantly: it decreased by more than one percent. However, we have often suggested to the various executives how to find the resources: implementation of fiscal federalism, application of standard costs, recovery of the economy with attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, loss of the costs of the state. 804 billion and we have not managed to find a few billion for small and medium-sized enterprises this time either. Other less practicable solutions are dictated by everyone: from the right, from the left, from the center and now also from the firmament here to my right, the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And while everyone thinks they have innovative ideas to propose, the state, which fails to cash in on the part of total or partial evaders, what does it do? A beautiful thing: this time we managed not to increase the cost of petrol or alcohol or tobacco, but we have increased the multiplier of property in category D from 60 to 65. The sums obtained, of course, are not intended for the Municipalities, of course, they would not know what to do with it! They're destined for the state. The municipalities don't even have a chance to fix some roads, some sidewalks, maybe even change the light bulbs of public lighting. I don't want to do administration anymore! I remind those who do not work that the buildings in category D are the sheds, which, by chance, for the vast majority are present in the North: moreover, I would like to tell everyone, even those who come to the North only sometimes to ski, that many sheds are empty and therefore this problem also arises. As it happens, then, this decision will turn into a tax that will hit the North once again. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Clearly, the tax burden is in the hands of the municipalities, which can raise or decrease the rates. It is a good system, Mr President, to escape your responsibilities! Nice system on the part of this government to download to mayors and local administrators your responsibilities! Mr President - and I shall conclude with this - the prolonged period of crisis has for a long time accustomed us to look more at the content than at the envelope. Mr President, as the Lega Nord Group and Autonomies we distrust the beautiful silver paper, but when there is a package - and this is a package - there is always a surprise inside, and surprises are not always pleasant. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Puglia. Congratulations),]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u74	Senator, the same applies to you as the nomen omen, since you gave a council to the government. Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the decree on which we are going to vote, confirming the practice that has now been established in this Parliament, is indeed characterized by necessity and urgency. Yes, this decree is fundamentally characterized by the need to show that electoral promises are not the flags to wave to get votes (never may it be!), but the flags to be hoisted for the good of the citizens. Moreover, this decree-law was born of the urgency to eliminate the IMU because it is an unbearable tax for citizens, as well as unjust. Gentlemen, will you stop teasing 60 million Italian citizens? It seems to me that the theater in which you of the majority are doing your beautiful scenes is at the limit with burlesque. Let me explain better: in the meantime even today the 5 Star Movement denounces this way of making politics and above all this way of proposing the laws. This measure is yet another soup: it is a pity that none of you wanted to dress it with a little common sense or even with a little imagination. We are increasingly bewildered by badly-made articles, but which demonstrate the superficiality of this Government in addressing certain topics. We are tired, as a minority, of wandering without results, and yet we cannot fail to do so: Italians must know what is going on between Palazzo Chigi and Palazzo Grazioli. I remind you that you wanted to include in this decree arguments such as social shock absorbers by way of derogation and even pensions. Why didn't you include the new rules of the Risiko and the naval battle? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] After all, understanding what you combine is simple: just take the Constitution and you understand that you do everything you can to disregard it. Measures such as what we are dealing with should be based on the principles dictated by our constituents, but you are obviously not as constitutionalist as you want to appear. Unfortunately, you are simply constitutional politicians. I do not tire of recalling the Constitution because I believe it is the only way out of this trap. Article 53, in the first paragraph, provides that: All are required to contribute to public expenditure on account of their contribution capacity. Can any of you in the government explain that? Do you know what this means? It means, for example, that exemptions and facilities for IMU cannot apply to those who own a house of 1,000 square meters, with appliances of a certain level. It means, for example, that a landlord who has decided to join a particular tax regime such as that resulting from the dry coupon cannot apply a further reduction in the rate. It still means that we can no longer tolerate the honest citizen of a virtuous municipality paying a TARES without receiving, on the other hand, services worthy of being considered such. On this last point, I allow myself to make a simple Sicilian parenthesis that sees how things really go in our territories. Waste management can no longer be entrusted to third parties, who, among others a thousand faults, have one of a certain caliber, that is that they are often involved in the affairs of the underworld. We need to push the municipalities to run these services so that they can save money and give real work. After all, gentlemen, the TARES, the TRISE, the TARE, the TASI, the TIA - call it whatever you want, even if you like it - will always weigh on us citizens, on our relatives, on us, because until proven otherwise I pay it, indeed if I pay it, I do not know you. Honestly, I do not think it is more acceptable to impose these taxes without providing a serious collection, cleaning and waste management service! But let's go back to the IMU, so loved and so hated. I would like to point out here a doubt that has raised a mayor with reference to Article 3, paragraph 2, of the decree-law. For those who do not remember, this article provides: The contribution referred to in paragraph 1 shall be distributed among the municipalities concerned, by decree of the Ministry of the Interior, in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to be adopted, after consulting the State-City Conference and local autonomous authorities, within thirty days of the date of entry into force of this decree, in proportion to the estimates of municipal tax revenue for the purpose communicated by the Department of Finance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Rightly, this first citizen writes to me: The municipalities that made the tax maneuver on 30 June 2013 also considered the entry of the IMU on the main house because then it was only known that it had been postponed, but not abolished. And he adds: "Now we know that the refreshment that the Ministry of Economy and Finance will give is based on IMU 2012 revenue, probably referring to the standard rate of 0.40 in 2012. The question that arises is that I, as spokesperson, gladly turn to our dear tax government: because in the allocation of EUR 2.3 billion of lower IMU revenues, at least in part,... president. Senator Bertorotta, you have to finish. BERTOROTTA (M5S). ...not considering the tax maneuvers made by the municipalities until 30 June 2013, that is, before the news that the IMU on the first house was abolished? Let me conclude with one of my proposals: let us stop taking temporary measures that only plug holes for the convenience of the shift and be the "bollinators" of the government's measures. We have a duty to take up our role as legislators. Mr President, I would like to add the final part of my speech to the shorthand report of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u76	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, first of all I would like to make a point of order. A few days ago the Senate passed the decree-law on feminicide without almost reading it. This was because he had arrived late; therefore, either we converted him in two days or he would have fallen. The ethical value of the provision has caused us to swallow the bitter chalice to do things in haste. The Heads of Group and the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs explained that it was an unacceptable system. Today there are a few more days, but we are in exactly the same situation: either we cause the decree to lapse, and we oblige citizens who now thought they would no longer pay this tax, or we accept the measure as it is. Mr Undersecretary, thank you for your presence and please tell the Minister for relations with Parliament that the Senate no longer accepts this system, because it is true that we have voted today for the establishment of a Committee in anticipation of a reform of the Constitution, but so it seems that bicameralism the House has already repealed it, in the sense that, if it examines the measure at first reading, it keeps it for so many days that we can do nothing but ratify what the House itself has done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Furthermore, I would ask the President-in-Office to report it to the President of the Senate, because it is an unacceptable system. We approve the measure because it is better this way, even if it contains errors. For example, in article 6, paragraph 5, it is provided that in addition to the magistrate, who has the power to decide the times of the implementation of the eviction by morosity, in addition to the judicial officer, who takes his time, now also the prefectures take measures of scheduled graduation of the intervention of the public force in the execution of the eviction measures. Those who rent the house, among other things, pay the IMU, so we cannot question the rule of law. I would like to remind you that the second instalment of the IMU expires in mid-December. Since then there will be ten days until Christmas, I think we should be able to tell the citizens what they will have to do in those days. By the way, just in those days someone will receive the thirteenth month (already largely committed), someone else will not receive it; I think it is right that they are informed with some speed to know whether they will have to pay or not. Looking at the law of stability, which has already been examined by the Commissions, we will discuss the new property tax and we will find solutions. I believe that the debate, although rapid, which has taken place today in this House at least one note must be transposed: it is essential that the Senate first and then the House establish a taxation on buildings that lasts a few years; we cannot subject citizens to the schizophrenia of measures that change too quickly. We hope that a serious, concrete dialogue can take place between the majority and the opposition and that solutions can be found based on the principle of fairness and on the Italian reality, which is peculiar. The house represents for the Italians what it does not represent for other European countries with which we compare; it is a fact that socially consolidated in the history of our country and of which one cannot ignore when going to tax the house. We must then find solutions that - I repeat - last over the years and give the municipalities some autonomy. Of course taxes must be left to the municipalities, but we cannot even think that the municipalities managed in a sensible way can burden citizens in an absolutely indiscriminate way because, being a nation, guaranteeing a certain uniformity I think is necessary. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u77	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law in this House certainly has some critical elements, but - let me say this - also some important elements, especially for those who listen to us outside this House. The refinancing with 500 million euros for 2013 of the social shock absorbers by way of derogation, distributed among the Regions and also linked to active policies and innovative and experimental actions of protection of employment, are in fact not only letters written in a law, but real funds that reach the workers now in great difficulty. They relate, therefore, to the history of families, of people who are waiting for these funds, and who, in some cases, have not received such allowances for many months and are therefore without an irreplaceable part of their income. Just as it is not just words, but the constituent elements of Italy that we want, the funds allocated to housing and housing policies provided for in Article 6. These include the intervention of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which allows interest rates to be reduced for the benefit of borrowers, or the refinancing of the Solidarity Fund for loans for the purchase of the first house for EUR 20 million; this is a fund that allows, in case of loss of work, death or disability, to be able to suspend the payment of the mortgage for 18 months, without any additional expenditure, for the shares of interest that would otherwise be due. I would also like to mention the 10 million more that this decree-law includes on the Fund for access to credit for the purchase of the first house and that extends the audience of beneficiaries to young people under the age of 35 who have atypical jobs. They also go in the same direction of aid and protection as those who are currently in difficulty, but who, if not supported, would fall into absolute poverty, the money devoted to the refinancing of the National Support Fund for access to rented housing, or the establishment of the Fund for the most blameless dying tenants. These are all important measures that concern the everyday life of people, the home, the work and that respond to some old and new situations of social weakness. I believe that this must be taken into account by all the senators, whatever party or political area they belong to. Also in the measure under consideration are important the funds allocated to the enterprises; in fact, Article 13 intervenes in the matter of payments of debts by the territorial authorities, re-determining the resources already established in the Fund to ensure liquidity for the payments of certain debts immediately due, resources allocated by Decree-Law No 35 of 2013. In particular, the Fund is increased by an additional 7.2 billion for 2013 and, given the crisis situation, it is right that companies can cash in as little time as possible. Turning briefly to the issue of the IMU, the decision to suspend this tax, although I do not believe that it is entirely fair to consider a measure of equity as those so far listed, but in my opinion it is part of the more general review of the local taxes that will be made mainly from the law of stability. After all the positive aspects that I have listed, as a former mayor and local administrator I want to highlight a problem related to the regulatory uncertainty regarding waste taxes. In fact, while this measure provides for a waste tax based on the European principle of polluter-pays, which is also enshrined in Article 14 of Directive 2009/112/EC, by rightly establishing certain criteria, such as the calculation of the tariff on the basis of the quantity and quality of waste produced, in relation to the different uses and types of activities carried out, and by allowing exemptions also on the basis of the ISEE, with the bill of stability that we have now begun to examine in the Senate, a new model of waste tax (TARI) is emerging which, at a first reading, seems more connected to the surface of the property than to the principle of polluter-pays. This problem has also been raised by the ANCI and we will have a chance to talk about it. I believe that if this were the case, we would again be faced with two conflicting regulations which happen in a very short time, creating confusion in the administrations, in the closure of the municipal budgets already heavily affected by the cuts in recent years and by the increase in social needs caused by this long economic crisis. The consequence is a further confusion for citizens and businesses, who do not yet see a single directive on waste and have to adapt continuously to different collection methods and procedures, which also means a bureaucratic burden. The effects of the decree-law on the IMU in conversion that we examine today, relating to the elimination of the first instalment of the levy, in fact intervene (as my colleague Carraro has said) two months from the end of the financial year 2013 of the Municipalities, who in the vast majority have already approved the budget and committed, when not expenditure, the resources recorded according to the revenues IMU previewed and, if the reimbursement identified by the norm to compensate the missed revenues of the IMU were not in line with the expected forecasts, would create a situation of additional difficulty in the Municipalities. That is why, with many Senators of the Democratic Party, we have asked on an agenda, which has just been approved in the Commission, to take every initiative to ensure that the effective share of reimbursement by the State to each municipality is determined not to be less than the IMU revenue envisaged. I believe that this measure should be considered fundamentally positive for the many measures of support for workers and businesses, with the hope that in the discussion on the law of stability and in the measures that follow we can complete the appropriations for the most urgent interventions and also start a period of reforms that have at the basis the principles of equity, decentralisation and, above all, simplification as an element of modernization of the country and flywheel of development. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u79	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u82	EXPOSED Joseph (PdL). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the harmonization of our work, I would like to ask you, listening to the other parliamentary groups, to conclude the examination of the Senate Act No 1107 tomorrow without continuity, avoiding interrupting lunch and continuing until the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u83	It seems to me that the groups have expressed their willingness to do so, which I believe is confirmed by the consensus of the representatives of the groups who are now in this Chamber. Therefore, tomorrow morning we will resume with the replies of the rapporteurs and the Government, and then move on to the examination of the articles and explanations of vote, then continuing with the other items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u86	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to a dramatic incident involving one of our young fellow citizens. I want to express the deepest sympathy from the whole Group of the North League to the family of the young Joel Leotta of Nibionno, in the province of Lecco, barbaricly killed, massacred of beatings by peers, in Kent County, near London, Sunday night, in the small apartment that he had rented with his friend Alex Galbiati, victim of the beating, but that is fortunately out of danger today. Joel had been in England for a few days and was enthusiastically a waiter in an Italian restaurant. His is the story - unfortunately tragically ended - of thousands of other young children fleeing this country to look for opportunities. The flight is not only about researchers, graduates or, as they say, brains; the economic crisis has increased the flight of labour that is not valued here and is underpaid. Here, unfortunately, they would have no chance of sustaining themselves; we are talking about 40% of young people under 25 who do not work. Joel was Lecco, a province that until five years ago did not even know what unemployment was. I turn to the government, which had given us - and above all, had relegated to these young people - a lot of beautiful words and mountains of hope at its inauguration. Letta said that she was all about them, that she would do everything she could to stimulate youth employment. To date, we have no concrete initiative to relaunch the economy and thus create new jobs. Even in the law of stability we see only increases in taxation and no cuts in unproductive public spending: a devastating combination for the already dying Italian economy. The Commission must do its utmost to ensure that entire generations of citizens are not lost and that prospects are restored to them. Let's talk about the dignity of the person. Dignity is an indissolubly linked concept to work, especially in the culture of the North; working for young people means independence, freedom, gives them the opportunity to stay away from lawlessness, to build a future and allows a country to grow. If we don't give them opportunities, this country dies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u87	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-131.ana.u88	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 23 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.42 p.m.
