ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 27 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation starts (15:08 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u4	I communicate that, evaluating the results of the vote for the election of Vice Presidents, I have appointed Senator Valeria Fedeli, who has achieved the highest number of votes, as Vice President in charge of exercising the functions of President of the Senate in case of temporary impediment pursuant to Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on Document LVII-a, No 1. The rapporteur, Senator Bubbico, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u6	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Report to Parliament sets out the Government's new forecasts of economic growth and fiscal developments for the years 2013-2014 compared to the updated note presented in 2012. With the present document, the Government has asked Parliament, through the approval in the House of the Report, for explicit authorization to proceed to the implementation of urgent interventions in the matter of the release of payments of past debts accumulated by the public administration towards the enterprises. For the amount of the sums involved, amounting to EUR 40 billion for 2013-2014, Parliament's approval of the Report is necessary because the decision under consideration would not be compatible with the public finance balances defined for the same years in the DEF Update Note of September 2012. The approval of new programmatic balances therefore indicates the financial framework within which the payment transaction of past debts of the public administration can take place. Such corrective action is considered necessary and urgent from the structural point of view, since it allows the emergence of budgetary positions so far partially submerged from the point of view of the needs and the debt, even if not of the net debt, and above all from the economic point of view, because it allows the introduction of a large injection of liquidity in the economic system to the benefit of the enterprises and the more general financial conditions of the system, thus generating positive effects on the employment. The Report, in a worse economic and fiscal framework than the one estimated in the Update Note to the DEF 2012, identifies in the decision to proceed in 2013-2014 to the payment of a substantial share of past debts of the general government the intervention through which a recovery of economic growth and therefore of GDP can be favored. The Bank of Italy itself, during the hearing held in the Commission, stressed the positive impact, in the light of the measure, also in terms of the certainty of payments and the restoration of a normal system of public administration payments, today, among other things, regulated by new Community rules transposed by Italy, on which, however, the accumulated weight in the past that, if not removed, will not allow public administrations to achieve the objectives set and, consequently, will determine the inevitable accumulation of new debts for delayed payments. It is therefore a policy decision for the immediate adoption of concrete measures by the Council of Ministers. The report was examined by the Special Commission set up by the Senate of the Republic in the light of the establishment of the Permanent Commissions and the in-depth debate which took place during the course of the work focused both on the new, worse, macro-economic and macro-financial framework and on the proposed launch of an extraordinary programme for the payment of commercial debts of the public administration. All the political groups represented in the Commission have examined the various parts of the document, developed observations and requested clarifications, with respect to which only the dynamics of health expenditure remain to be specified, which is in sharp decrease compared to the programmatic one, as re-determined after the manoeuvres of 2012. During the course of the work, two important hearings were held by ISTAT, focused on the macroeconomic deterioration, and by the Bank of Italy, focused mainly on the issue of the size of the claims held by the system of companies vis-à-vis the public administration and the impact of an intervention for their payment. Regarding the update of the growth estimates for the current year, in the fourth quarter of 2012 there was a significant worsening of the Italian economy, with a decline in GDP of 0.9 per cent compared to the previous quarter, which resulted in a negative drag effect on 2013 of one percentage point and the consequent downward revision of the growth forecasts, past, for the current year, from -0.2 per cent to -1,3 per cent. In the state, as emerges from the Economic Bulletin published last January by the Bank of Italy, there are still no signs of a reversal of the recessionary trend; the cyclical phase in Italy remains weak even in the initial months of 2013 and there is no turning point in particular on the domestic demand side, while foreign demand continues to make a positive contribution to economic activity. This negative scenario was confirmed by the hearing of ISTAT, which in particular highlighted a further significant deterioration in the confidence of households in the only survey carried out at the time following the recent national general elections. There is no doubt that, in the current prolonged crisis, the economic and financial structure of companies is somewhat weakened by the large amount of credit that companies themselves have to pay to public administrations. Added to this is the problem of credit crunch. A mix of unfavorable situations by which companies are unable to assess investment plans and improve ordinary management. With the intervention of unblocking payments, the trend of GDP 2013, otherwise destined to a decrease of 1.5 percentage points, would present a better trend and the impact of the proposed measure would, according to the estimates of the Government, be even more important for 2014, where in the absence of intervention it is expected a +0.6 percent, which turns into a +1.3 percent thanks to the measures of unblocking the arrears payments. The Government has stated that, if the extraordinary program were to show effectiveness, it will be possible, and in the opinion of many will have to, in the future put in place further tranches of payment of the previous debts, considering that with this intervention it covers approximately 50% of the same. The Report does not contain the macroeconomic and financial variables necessary for the calculation of structural balances, which are relevant for the verification of compliance with the medium-term objective, i.e. the budgetary balance net of the cycle and the one-off. At the hearing, however, the Minister for Economic Affairs reiterated that the extraordinary programme for the payment of commercial debts of the public administration is one-off and is therefore excluded from the calculation of such balances, which, however, worsen less than the nominal ones because they are influenced by the cyclical worsening. It is quite obvious that a pre-existing government debt payment transaction of EUR 40 billion in 2013-2014 will have a significant impact on the public finance framework, which already has a deterioration, in particular, of the net debt values for the current year compared to the estimates made in the 2012 Update Note. The new estimate of net debt, in the absence of the intervention of payment of past debts, worsens to 2.4% in 2013. This situation is caused by a sharp reduction in tax revenue, partly offset by lower interest and lower interest net expenditure. Against these figures, with a trend value of net debt for 2013 equal to 2.4 percent of GDP, the programmatic value of net debt, inclusive of the intervention of payment of past debts, should be at 2.9 percent, below the limit imposed by European legislation. Due to the delicacy of the topic and the danger of exceeding the above limit, the Government has been asked to clarify better, in the drafting of the upcoming Document of economy and finance, the trends of revenues and expenses, the actual 2012 data for the different types of taxes and evaluations in terms of drag effects. On these aspects, the Government has provided the necessary assurances, clarifying among other things that the lower interest expenses in 2013, estimated at around 5.3 billion, derive from the foreseeable reduction based on the current forward curve of interest rates on Italian public bonds compared with that of last summer and the increase, already taken into account, related to the issuance of new debt for the financing of the extraordinary program of payments. The Report therefore highlights the need to accompany the consolidation of the public accounts with specific support actions, capable of addressing the marked weakness of domestic demand, stimulating its recovery already in the second part of the current year. The instrument to facilitate the immediate release of liquidity into the economic system is identified in the release of public administration debt payments to its suppliers, demonstrating the intention to proceed in this direction through an emergency measure. In another respect, the positive impact of the measure could also come from the strengthening and implementation of the extraordinary measures undertaken during 2012, having the same aims as those in question, and in particular those provided for in Article 35 of Decree-Law No 1 of 2012, in order to accelerate the payment of the public administration's supply debts. The certification circuit must not be interrupted, and this not only because of the certainty of the payments of previous debts that will be paid in the next two years, but also according to the other payments of previous ones that will remain outside the measures adopted and any new debts that could accumulate in the future. In this sense, immediately, in the decree to be issued, we will have to face the problematic nodes that have so far prevented the electronic platform from working, so much so as to allow the certification of only 3 million euros of past debts. The problem of delayed payments by public administrations, as well as on the side of the demobilization of past debts, has been addressed in recent months also providing for new ways of behavior of public administrations through the transposition, with the legislative decree 9 November 2012, n. 192, of the directive of the European Union n. 7 of 16 February 2011. A few months after the entry into force of the aforementioned decree, clear and profound problems emerge that, even in this case, need a rapid solution precisely according to the strengthening of the overall effectiveness of the action undertaken by the Government on this topic. In particular, the measures for speeding up payments vary according to the type of institution. Central governments, local authorities and the National Health Service are involved in the proposed action, with an expected share of more than 40% of the total commercial debts of public administrations, estimated by the Bank of Italy in 91 billion, of which 11 were sold to financial intermediaries. In the course of the intense activities the government has clarified that the repartition of the extraordinary program previews approximately 19 billion to benefit the territorial authorities, 14 billion for the health, 7 billion for the State. For the debts of the regions and local authorities, the internal stability pact is expected to ease the constraints, which will allow the use of administrative surpluses; the exclusion from the Pact of the Regions of payments made to local authorities on the liabilities to which they correspond residual assets in the budgets of local authorities; the establishment of revolving funds to ensure the liquidity of local authorities, with the obligation to repay within a given period. For the debts of the health sector it is previewed the concession of an advance of cash finalized to the payment of the debts relative to transactions already counted in the financial years precedence for the purposes of the calculation of the net debt, to return according to a plan of return. Finally, through treasury stocks, it should provide for the previous tax refunds to be paid by the State. The Report highlights the need to take into account that part of the payments will flow into the credit sector, pending the transfer of a share of its commercial claims to financial intermediaries by companies. In this respect, it is noted that this reduces the provision of liquidity in the economic system, but nevertheless indirectly favours the economy, since the acceleration of payments should lead to a easing of tensions on the offer of credit and a reduction of interest rates for customers. The Commission, through the interventions of all political groups, has expressed a strong direction to the Government so that, when implementing by decree, the conventional and monitoring forms can be identified to ensure that the influx of new liquidity is entirely destined to support the real economy and businesses. As regards the effects on the general government profit and loss account, the measures in question would lead to higher capital payments of around 7.8 billion, leading to a deterioration in net debt of 0.5 points of GDP in 2013 alone. The reduced expected effect on the net debt balance shows that the major share of the intervention will be the acceleration of payments against current-account liabilities, which have an effect only on needs and debt. Also in order to be able to fully assess the impact of the measure, the Government was asked, in the implementation decree, to provide clarification on the extent of the stock of existing liabilities and its composition between current and capital account. A small share of the 2013 net borrowing margin of around 800 million is earmarked for the financing of new productive investments which, according to the decisions of the European Union, can be decommissioned from the parameters relevant to the structural balance of budgets. In short, the principle of a golden rule has passed, although it is still necessary to clarify which classes of investment can be applied. In general, national co-financing of the Structural Funds should be primarily involved. The discussion also made it clear that it is the country's interest to obtain, in comparison with the European institutions, an interpretation of this rule that includes not only major infrastructure projects, but also all investment measures that can have a positive impact in the short term on growth and the reduction of unemployment, particularly of women and young people. The subject presents very sensitive and complex Community profiles, in particular, given that Italy, in May 2013, should conclude the excessive deficit procedure positively - it will be necessary to commit itself to this result being confirmed. The indications from the last European Council of 14 and 15 March 2013, while holding the invitation to Member States to take action at the same time on the revenue and expenditure side, adopting short-term targeted measures to promote growth and support job creation, do not provide specific guidance on the measure under consideration and, in the state, are only a signal in the direction of greater flexibility in the application of existing rules which should have concrete spill-over effects, especially in the area of investment. On 18 March, EU Commissioners for Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industry issued a joint note expressing, among other things, the Commission's willingness to cooperate with the Italian authorities in helping the technical implementation of the previous trade debt settlement plan. The note, although it represents an openness to the needs of our country, has not clarified whether the liquidation of commercial debts can actually fall within the significant factors and, above all, what concrete implications this would have in the evaluation of the European institutions regarding the impact of the measure on our public accounts. In the information given to the Senate on 25 March last on the European Summit, the President of the Council has specified that Italy must respect the threshold of 3% in 2013, maintaining to this end an adequate margin of security. Otherwise - as is well known - our country would not come out of the excessive deficit procedure and would therefore lose any possible advantage. It seems clear that the partial change of line of the Community fora on the requirements for Italian public finance and the new flexibility granted for public payments and for the "mini-golden rule" need a further strong step forward. While it seems absolutely necessary for the country to maintain its regained credibility in the area of financial stability and to be vigilant in the development of public finances, on the other hand it is necessary to continue a close confrontation with the European institutions in order to make as effective and broad the margins of flexibility as possible, also with reference to further measures to support the economy and employment, especially youth, without incurring infringements of the rules. This action runs the risk of becoming weak and unbelievable if not supported by a renewed national cohesion and the daily work of an authoritative government structure in front of Europe and capable of generating confidence in our country. In conclusion, in recommending to the Senate the approval of this report, it is important to stress that this is an act that paves the way for an important stimulus to the economy and employment, the specific and substantive aspects of which can be examined in the examination of the report, also in the light of the guidelines set out in the parliamentary resolution that we are about to approve. At the same time, it should not be forgotten that the origin of European openness to these new margins of flexibility remains a strong and motivated concern for the extension of the economic recession in our country. No one can move forward the idea that the extraordinary payment programme for commercial credits of the public administration is, in this respect, decisive. It is only a first, albeit important, step, to which more must be added. This concern must be at the heart of the political, programmatic and regulatory commitment of this Parliament and requires that the country, properly represented by an authoritative Government, can, with renewed vigour and hope, resume a path of sustainable growth. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and the Senators Casaletto and De Pietro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u7	I would remind you that the timing of the debate has been divided between the groups as set out by the Conference of Leaders. Motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the report to Parliament presented by the Government, in order to take account of the effects of speeding up the payment of public administrations' debts to suppliers, presents an extremely critical economic and social picture of the country. Government figures forecast GDP to fall by 1.3% for 2013, with a sharp deterioration compared to the DEF 2012 Additional Note, and the unemployment rate rising by up to 11.6 percent in 2013 and, again, until 11.8 in 2014. During the hearings, ISTAT and Banca d'Italia confirmed that already now, in the first months of 2013, a decrease in GDP of 1% has matured. If we add to this picture the difficulties of using credit, the progressive contraction in consumption, the high tax burden, unfortunately the risk of a further worsening of the recession until a substantial paralysis of the economic and productive system appears realistic. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the government's action be directed immediately to identify effective interventions and tools to support growth, since the next acts of national and European economic policy, namely DEF and PNR. On the payment of the debts of the public administration, estimated by the Government in 70 billion euros (but the Bank of Italy speaks of 90 billion), a serious delay has been determined in these years and the same legislative interventions carried out in 2012 have yielded modest results. Now, after the recent openings by the European Commission, the government's choice to accelerate payments to the tune of 20 billion in 2013 and 20 billion in 2014 is positive, because it represents an injection of liquidity and support to domestic demand that, in the Government's intentions, should have first positive effects already in the second part of 2013. In any case, in order to optimise the expected results, the legislative measure must be immediate and directly applicable. In the Report, the impact of this measure on the deficit/GDP ratio is estimated to increase by 0.5%, from 2.4 to 2.9 percent, dangerously approaching the 3% limit. The assurances given by the Government in the hearing before the Joint Committees of the Chamber and Senate are largely based on the one-off features of the planned interventions, but it is also necessary to require specific measures to be defined with the European Commission to mitigate the constraints of the Internal Stability Pact, so that administrations can carry out payments in a strong way, avoiding the accumulation of additional debts by public administrations due to the rigidity of public finance constraints. At the same time, it must be stressed that these important measures will not have to exhaust the measures relating to growth. For this reason, the Democratic Party calls for the Government to support with greater determination towards the European Union the need for action to increase the flexibility margins of the fiscal compact, in particular with regard to investment and to reduce the social impact of the crisis. In this sense there are urgent interventions for social shock absorbers, for the maintenance of infrastructure investments, for the reduction of the tax burden on investments and employment. In particular, the measures for the payment of debts, we think - reserving an examination of the decree-law - to give some guiding criteria. The decree-law, in our opinion, will have to provide mechanisms immediately implementing, simple, clear and a fast, certain and defined timing. Under the chronological criterion, priority should be given to companies that have not had any intervention in recent years compared to those - for example, banks - which have a credit transferred to them by the companies themselves. The priority must be given to virtuous administrations, both in terms of debt transparency and the availability of own resources blocked by the Stability Pact. The scope of creditors-debtors should be clearly defined in relation to sub-suppliers and public companies involved. Certification must be speeded up, with the obligation of public administrations to register for the telematics platform, otherwise providing for appropriate sanctions. These administrations must be monitored by providing, if necessary, with forms of centralisation of payments. The feasibility of compensation between certified claims and corporate tax debts should be verified. The rules on late payments should also apply to public works credits and social benefits. Finally, it should be noted that, even with the enactment of the decree-law, the issue of the quantity of payments envisaged remains open, which is considerably lower than the levels of the total debts of the public administration. To this end too, it appears necessary that the Government, already in the decree-law, substantially strengthens all measures that can guarantee a higher speed of payments, raising, for example, the threshold of 50% indicated by Minister Grilli for direct payment by administrations with available resources. In conclusion, the Democratic Party approves the Report presented by the Government with its updates on the public finance objectives necessary to unblock the payment of debts of public administrations, in the conviction that this is only the first of a series of interventions that the Government and Parliament will have to implement in a short time to revive growth and employment in our country, indispensable conditions for social cohesion, today hard marked by the crisis in progress. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u9	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report proposed to Parliament intends to take action to accompany the process of budgetary consolidation and respect for financial stability with a specific action of EUR 40 billion of expenditure, divided into different operational arrangements, in support of the business system. This action, as is well known, aims to ensure, over a limited period (I would say very narrow: 12 months, last half of 2013 and first half of 2014), the payment of a significant part of the commercial debts owed to the same enterprises by the public administrations (State, local authorities, ASL, Regions). Commercial debts the real entity of which is not given to know, highlighting in this the lack of adequate instruments of monitoring of the debt of the general government, but that in any case has been estimated by Government, ISTAT and Bank of Italy between 70 and 90 billion euros. It is a significant mass of de facto resources taken away from businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, which more than others suffer from the liquidity crisis and more difficulties they encounter for access to credit. It is not a question of new expenditure, but of intervening in the payment system by means of measures which, if adopted in good time, aiming at the regularity of payments in certain and limited times, would perhaps have avoided further burdening Italian companies in crisis. That being said, if this is the way the European Union has set out, it must be followed with the necessary caution so as not to give rise to excessive expectations of the economic and, above all, social and employment effects. In fact, if it appears understandable in the accounts proposed by the Government an increase in the level of net debt of 0.5 percentage points of GDP in order to intervene on the share of public administration's debts related to investment expenses, it is necessary to deepen - and in this it is necessary to commit the Government immediately, and perhaps also the special Commission itself - how to accelerate the expenditure of Regions, local authorities and health companies, which must resort to the systems related to the relaxation of the Stability Pact for the use of administrative surpluses or that operate through the establishment of revolving funds or through cash advances. The system of local public administrations and the system of health care weighs on the success of this action in part very important. Therefore, it cannot be excluded from the modalities of certification of credits and above all from the operational efficiency of the various public administrations. Another issue concerns the spatial and sectoral articulation of expected spill-over effects. In fact, because the database on which the proposal is based is lacking, the fact may occur that virtuous entities that have not expanded the debt and are in possession of administrative surpluses cannot use them being excluded new expenditure, effectively leading to substantial discrimination between territorial systems and possible consequences for the impairment of the balance. Finally, there is a concern that this mass of resources will be acquired by the banking system, including through the repayment of claims from the same business system, holding the large part of the liquidity rather than giving it back significantly in new credit: this would greatly reduce the efficiency and benefits of the action we are talking about. Last but not least, it must be noted that there are no consequences on the state budget, even in relation to the current situation of political and economic uncertainty, which would undermine the necessary measures to support income and combat poverty that are absolutely necessary and urgent. This concerns, in particular, the indisputable measures to extend cash-integration and mobility treatments, including by way of derogation, which expire during the year, which must be activated in this financial year and for which the coverage must be identified. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u11	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. Not being present, it is meant to have reunited you. Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u12	Mr President, the international economic crisis that has hit our country obliges us to find solutions in the short term to prevent our production system from suffering a collapse from which it would hardly be able to escape. It is well known to all that the effects of the crisis have affected the political scenario, reaching its own political headquarters and the establishment of a technical government. Although the North League, since the establishment of the Monti Government, refused to give a blank trust to the Executive of the technicians, it also put hope in the professors to find quick solutions for the good of the country. The Monti Government, which had a broad support for its work, both at the level of a parliamentary majority and at the level of institutional and international credibility, has failed miserably: the interventions that it has been able to launch, also through the continuous use of emergency regulations and the use of repeated trust, have basically only aggravated the already critical situation that our country lives. After a year of Monti government, the Commission today informs us that macroeconomic estimates must be reconsidered downwards. Gross domestic product falls by 0.9 per cent compared to the previous quarter; public administration's net debt values for the years 2013 and 2014 will decrease by 0.6 and 0.3 percentage points respectively compared to previous estimates. Tax pressure has increased exponentially: in 2011 it was 42.6 percent, while in 2013 it is 44 percent, without considering the real tax pressure, which is at stratospheric levels! And so also the unemployment rate, which reaches levels of social alarm. Where, therefore, are the beneficial effects of the decrees by the high-sounding names, such as "Salva Italia", "Decreeto sviluppo", "Decreeto sviluppo", and so on? As a North League, in our opposition role, on the one hand we have always criticized the interventions of the Government, but on the other hand, in a responsible and constructive way, we have collaborated in every place in order to improve, through our proposals, the measures of the Executive, so that they were aimed at the support of small and medium-sized enterprises, the nerve center of the economy of our country. Our entrepreneurs do not ask for economic support, but only to be able to work. It is absurd, in fact, that certain actions, including at European level, have provided concrete aid only to the banks - the banks themselves responsible for the current financial crisis, which has become an economic crisis - without binding them on the granting of loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is unacceptable that companies should even be forced to close because public administration does not respect payment deadlines! It is unacceptable that no form of compensation has yet been provided for claims with the public administration, which are always claimed by small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for the tax debts which they are obliged to pay. It is unthinkable that small businessmen are now forced to finance the banks in order to pay taxes, while they have debts towards the public administration. It is incomprehensible that virtuous local authorities are also restricted in their activities by rules, such as those relating to the Stability Pact, which block all investment and payment activities towards creditors. In the light of these observations, an urgent intervention aimed at relaunching the country's economy through concrete support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our economy, is no longer feasible. It is necessary to encourage innovation, exports and research, through actions aimed at reducing the tax burden on businesses and, in particular, on small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to allow a real and effective recovery of the real economy. It is necessary to introduce a tax advantage, also to counter the relocation of businesses; to reduce bureaucracy, starting from strict compliance with payment deadlines by the public administration, certain that this measure would lead to an increase of 250,000 employees and a GDP growth of one percentage point for the first three years. It is also necessary to overcome the Stability Pact for virtuous Municipalities and to introduce, at regional level, zero kilometre contracts for races under threshold. There is no more time to lose: the crisis that gripes our country calls us to a sense of deep responsibility. We must provide rapid and effective responses. Therefore, while renewing our distrust of this Government of the professors, today we are presenting together with the People of Freedom a motion for a resolution that commits the Executive to launch, also through the use of emergency legislation, one last measure, aimed at concrete measures to support the real economy, represented by our small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause from the GroupsLN-Aut and PdL and the Senators De Pietro, Casaletto and Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u13	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u14	Mr President, paying some of the debts is a good thing, but some clarification needs to be made. It is difficult to believe that the payment of debts of the public administration has all the virtues listed in the Government Document. In truth, it can have only one important one: to avoid that some situations of company difficulties turn into real crises. It takes more to promote development! That must be said forcefully. It would be wrong to see such measures as development initiatives. So, you ask yourself a few questions here. We are talking about paying 20 billion in the second half of 2013 and 20 billion in the first half of 2014: are these deadlines so far needed? Could we not proceed more quickly? When do you plan to pay the surplus over $40 billion? With regard to procedures, the impression that is derived from the Document is that the Government does not have the very clear ideas, that is, it has not yet defined the concrete ways in which payment can take place. We would be delighted if the Government were to reassure us on this point, giving sufficient detail to the process it intends to follow for payments. On development we continue to do little or nothing. We would not want the planned start of debt payments to be an alibi for further postponement of development measures, which they can no longer wait for. Finally, it would be useful for the next Government to take on the categorical commitment that the State, in the center and on the periphery, will pay its debts correctly from a certain day onward. [[Applause from the PdL Group and the Senators Airola, Marton and Albertini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u15	Senator Merloni is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u16	Mr President, necessity and urgency are undoubtedly the reasons for the measures to be taken to unblock claims against public administrations from the business system, which for too long have been waiting to be honoured. 20 billion euros for 2013 and as many for 2014 can and must represent that signal that the business world, the real economy and citizens ask us to restart development. In addition, the Revenue Agency announced that in the next four months it will run for VAT refunds of EUR 11 billion. These are sums of money that can restart the internal market at a time of ongoing economic crisis. Measures able, if implemented in fast times, to give a first positive blow and, above all, oxygen to the national entrepreneurial fabric. The liquidation of corporate loans by public administrations could in fact lead to an increase in five years of some 250,000 employees, a growth in gross domestic product of 1% for the first three years and 1.5% in 2018. These are estimates provided by the president of the Confindustria Squinzi. This is an extraordinary intervention that Italy can afford thanks to the consolidation work that the Government Monti has carried out in the last year. Let's not forget, in fact, that the great sacrifices required of Italians throughout 2012 have contributed decisively to having secured the public accounts, reporting the deficit-GDP ratio just above 2%. The decree saves Italy in order to correct - precisely - the public accounts, the reform of pensions and the labour market, the decree grows Italy with the liberalizations and measures to lay the foundations of an economic recovery to intercept: they are only some of the measures adopted, that have had a strong impact in the concrete life of each citizen. They are sacrifices which cannot be lost and which, on the other hand, are to be laid as a foundation for building a new model of sustainable economic development. So much so that, as soon as the debate on the debts of public administration vis-à-vis companies was opened, a substantial green light has come from Europe to the measures for speeding up the payments of past debts. This is because, despite the loosening of the bonds, the deficit-GDP ratio will remain below 3%. The Report does not deviate from the objective of achieving a balanced budget, which is being pursued with force and determination and which has been the basis of the sacrifices, as has been said, demanded in recent months from citizens, businesses and the state machinery itself. We are, however, still immersed in a macro-economic framework of extreme weakness. The storm in the financial markets is far from behind us, but this must not prevent us from taking all those initiatives to support and revive economic growth so that employment can also benefit, which has now reached unsustainable levels, especially if we are talking about youth unemployment, women and the Mezzogiorno. The measures contained in the report, which we are discussing today, are therefore to be approved in Parliament at an early stage, partly because we are talking about an intervention intended not to finance new expenditure, but to give a concrete breath of oxygen to the budgets of our companies which - as is easily understandable - have been weighed down by the international economic crisis of recent years, by an increasingly difficult access to credit, as well as by the interruption of payments flows by public administrations. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, please lower your voice. Please, Senator Merloni, resume your speech. [[Applause.]] Thank you, Mr President. On the one hand, therefore, the overall budgetary balance of the public accounts is safeguarded, counting in perspective also on a faster and safer recovery of economic growth that will favor the sustainability of Italian public finance and, on the other hand, will help to support the country system concretely. As evidence of the urgent need for such actions, the latest data released by ISTAT, with regard to inflation, are quite clear. There is, in fact, an annual decline of 1.7% on a trend basis, but there is no joy: the fall in inflation, in fact, which has reached the lowest level since November 2010, is a symptom of a crisis that leads people not to buy anymore or in any case to limit themselves to the indispensable. If consumption collapses, production declines and companies reduce employees or shut down altogether. And when you lose your job, you lose your income and you consume less and less: it is a vicious circle that drags Italy into a negative spiral, which undermines the foundations of our economy. It is therefore quite clear that the unblocking of the payment of debts contracted by the public administration towards companies can help to halt this recessionary spiral, even if the picture, with regard to this year's gross domestic product, is expected to remain in negative territory for a drag effect of the substantial decrease in the last phase of 2012. However, the external market and exports in particular are showing timid signs of recovery. It is a positive data for Made in Italy and not only. The internationalization of companies is one of the ways to strengthen this trend, because it allows to attack new markets making them increasingly competitive. A first economic engine, after years of difficulty, is therefore ready to restart: it is therefore necessary to trigger the restart of the second engine of growth, represented precisely by the internal market. An immediate release of liquidity into the system, favouring private companies, achieved precisely by speeding up the payment of debts contracted by the public administration, would allow to intercept the economic recovery from the second half of the current year. It is to be hoped, in fact, that the injection of liquidity, to be carried out over a two-year period, will be used to a large extent to increase the investment plans of the companies or to consolidate their ordinary management, such as, for example, any payments of arrears to the staff. The credit system will also benefit, as a share of public government debt results from these lending to banks. It may seem a weakening of the direct impact on the economic system, but it is not so: helping to reduce tensions within the credit system, making more robust accounts and budgets, indirectly favors the real economy through a desired reduction of interest rates to customers. Regions and municipalities will therefore benefit from this, which have repeatedly called for a loosening of the constraints of the Internal Stability Pact in order to be able to cope in turn with the payments of works commissioned to companies, the vast majority of which concern investments. The Government Report goes in this direction, providing for a loosening of the constraints that will allow local authorities to use the available administrative surpluses, the exclusion of payments made to local authorities on the liabilities of the Stability Pact of the Regions and to which correspond active residues of municipalities and provinces and, finally, the establishment of revolving funds to ensure liquidity to local authorities, be they Regions or Municipalities, with the obligation to return within a certain and sustainable period of time. It is an important step, which comes as the first act of this legislature and that, if we can interpret further requests from citizens, it will be able to assume a decisive weight to contribute to the country's exit from the tunnel. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and the Senators Astorre and Fornaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I believe that it is necessary at this moment to give back to the act that we are examining its actual connotation. It is true that it is a note - indispensable, from a technical point of view - of variation to the overall macroeconomic framework of the country, but it is also true that it is the only measure - perhaps going beyond the political and constitutional presuppositions of the current Government - that could be taken using some meshes that have been created within our national accounts, therefore also with reference to the economic framework represented in the European framework. The President of the Commission, together with the President of the similar Commission in the Chamber of Deputies, intended to emphasise the measure by means of a number of hearings. Perhaps it was the first measure of this legislature or perhaps the first measure that - and I should like to stress - after many months of activity meets a few small needs (and then we will see why I define it as such) of our companies and our economy. In any case, from this desire to emphasize the measure, through the important hearings that have been held jointly, it has emerged - alas - a cyclical picture - I am pardoned the bickering of words - much more serious than was thought. It makes us all say with great force what is the need to intervene not only on this sector and on this topic, but on the entire problems of the national economy, such as the fiscal pressure, which for some time in our country has exceeded the threshold for which every increase generates a decrease in revenue, a contraction in consumption and a collapse in investment. I am also referring to the future taxes (deliberate, but not yet activated) that await Italians, such as the increase in VAT, like TARES, like other unfortunate initiatives that, if they were to come to completion, would mark a further collapse of consumption, investment and the national economy, which would unfortunately continue in its way of recession. Now, it is clear that this measure must be brought back to the political and organic limits within which it must be framed. It is clear that the issues to which I have referred cannot be dealt with by a government which comes from a dragging of activities of the previous legislature and from an absolute lack of stable political framework in this Parliament. It is true - as has been said - that the Government has never been distrusted, because it has not gone to direct confrontation with the Chambers, but it is also true that it has never had the confidence of this Parliament, and therefore it could not activate measures beyond ordinary administration. I repeat: this is already a measure at the limits of ordinary administration and it is also justified by a series of pressing demands from the world of the economy. However, this measure is somewhat asphyxiating even in its limited scope, because it limits the possibility of paying public administration debts to companies and suppliers to 50% of the estimated figure and even in two years, it is not known by what forms and criteria. We will discuss this when the government issues the decree-law, but surely there will be a ridda of litigation, of requests for priorities, of bureaucratic delays. Let's imagine a measure that must be taken in the form of a decree-law still to be issued, that can be activated only after the conversion by the Chambers, after in that place already promises a parliamentary battle on some priorities, on the privilege of some sectors (for example, if to pay the banks as anticipators). I hope that this is a measure which, in its definition, wants to address the whole issue of the payment of public administration's debts to the system of companies and suppliers, because it also stems from a European Commission resolution which has censored Italy (as a public sector) for the delay in payment of what is owed to companies and suppliers and which has censored Italy not only for the previous one, but will obviously do so also for the future, because the 60 days set at European level as the maximum period for payment by the public administration are already not relevant to the present, as this measure will only consider the debts at 31 December 2012, and therefore we are already over 60 days for 2013. We must understand why we cannot go further, for example, with new forms of compensation between private and public debts; we cannot go further in the breach of the Stability Pact of the public administrations that have resources in their administrative surpluses to be able to pay this and other; we cannot go further even with an eventual agreement with the Italian Banking Association (ABI), because it would be important for it to be put in a position to agree, through a convention with the Government, that what it had to collect for repayment of advance credits will have to be made available to the same companies (therefore, it could be further increased the figure expected by 40 billion). These activities should be the responsibility of a political government actually established after the popular vote. I understand, therefore, the narrow nature of the government measure, but we cannot justify it in the eyes of a country where the recession is in continuous progress, where the fiscal pressure has exceeded the limits of all tolerability even theoretically from the economic point of view, where consumption continues to yield, where unemployment continues to grow. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, my assessment - which is perhaps a more political assessment, because the technical assessment of the text will be carried out in the examination of the measure that we expect to be issued by the Government and discussed in Parliament - is that this country either has a government, even a broad convergence of political forces according to the national emergency, or it will have to return immediately to the polls; the country, in fact, cannot allow itself to be asphyxiated and partial, I repeat, not because of the specific fault of the Government, but because of an overall situation that does not allow anyone to take, in the absence of a political government, measures of greater magnitude. No one thinks that they can delegate to this Government - I have already said why, from the point of view of its political and parliamentary genesis, that it does not have - measures that go far beyond ordinary administration and that, therefore, can commit the country on the basis of a trusted consensus that does not exist. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Bulgarelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u19	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, my speech focuses on the new European context, which has enabled us to find a solution to the long-standing problem of the payment of the commercial debts of the public administration, and on the implications for our government's economic policy. It must be said first of all that the Government Report offers a realistic, even worrying, picture of the conditions of great difficulty in our economy, because, as we know, of a recessionary spiral that has been going on almost uninterruptedly since 2008. There is an important novelty, which is implicit in the report, and that is what has happened recently at European level. In this respect, I think we need to talk about an evolution in European crisis management policies, certainly not a real breakthrough, as would be necessary, for which we must continue to negotiate in Brussels. As we know, at the last European Council in mid-March, it was decided in favour of greater flexibility in the interpretation of the rules and methods of fiscal adjustment, both in terms of timing and in terms of ways, with differentiations for countries, but without changing, in substance, the line of fiscal austerity and national reforms that has long characterized, as is well known, the Community approach. Why has there been such an evolution? Of course, there are more factors to blame for this, and I believe that it is important to stress the interventions of the European Central Bank and the financial stability that has resulted from this. But I believe that even more important is the awareness, gained at European level, of the very thin results achieved so far by the restrictive policies adopted almost all over Europe, which, as we know, have generated in the last two years the recession and economic stagnation of the euro area as a whole, and of our economy, in particular, of which the numbers published in the Report give broad confirmation. Let us be clear: strict public finances and compliance with the rules are fundamental ingredients of the smooth functioning of monetary union, but alone and in the way they have been applied are not enough. In view of these negative developments, it has therefore been decided in Europe - at least this is evident - to send out a signal; hence this availability, albeit timid, to a correction of course, with the new line of a differentiated rigour. It is difficult to believe that this correction is or will be sufficient to modify, if not in any part, the negative trends in place previously mentioned throughout the periphery of Europe, but there is no doubt that this new flexibility offers the economic policy of our country additional opportunities and spaces of intervention that is very important to power and know how to exploit immediately and at the best. I believe that an important first step in this direction is precisely the approval of the Report of the Government under consideration for the modification of the balances of public finances, because, as has been said, it will make possible this emergency measure with which to unblock the payments of the debts of the public administration to the suppliers. From an economic point of view, it should be borne in mind that providing liquidity to companies at a stage such as the present, where they are deprived of access to credit or at least severely hindered in their access to credit and are still in the midst of a financial crisis, and one of the most useful things that can be done to try to revive our economy. Please note that the value of the debts that will be repaid in 2013-2014 amounts to about 5% of the bank's debts and 3% of the total debts of non-financial companies. This makes it clear that this will be a significant stimulus to domestic demand which, as is known, has been strongly contracted in these two years and has more than offset the positive stimulus coming from exports on the growth of our country. It is important to remember that to maximise these spill-over effects are two main transmission channels to look at: on the one hand the increase in liquidity, on the other the increase in purchasing power. For this reason, particular importance will assume the modalities and contents of the decree by which the provision will be implemented: decree that we will have the opportunity to discuss in depth already starting from the next days. Recognizing all this is good, but we must take into account the serious conditions of our economy, as they emerge and are photographed by the updated data and provided by the Report presented by the Government. There is no doubt, precisely in the light of such highly aggravated conditions, that other urgent and specific measures will shortly be needed to deal with the acute weakness of domestic demand, so that the fall can be stopped first and then tried to stimulate a recovery already in the second part of the current year. This means that it will be necessary to accompany the containment and consolidation of the accounts with the introduction of innovative and credible measures for employment and growth. I believe that it is important to remember, in view of the European context, that the new flexibility margins in the European area can be used for the introduction of these measures, starting with the definition of the content of the new Economic and Financial Document, as well as the stability programme and the national reform programme. I would like to remind you that in the European Council statement of mid-March, as well as talking about differentiated fiscal consolidation, it was stated that the need for productive public investment should be balanced with the objectives of budgetary discipline. I believe that these are important statements which should be read as a kind of strategic orientation for the stability and economic planning plans which will of course be drawn up by the various Member States in April, in the framework of the European Semester procedure, and which must also be of particular interest to our Economic and Financial Document, which will be presented in a few days' time. Of course we know - it has been said - that at European level we have not yet defined which classes of investment can be decommissioned from the parameters relevant to the structural balance. We are talking about national co-financing of the Structural Funds, but I believe there is room - it is important to stress this and it is above all our interest to do so - for this interpretation to be extended and therefore to include a set of investment measures capable of having a positive impact on domestic demand and employment in the near future. We expect in some way that in the document in question and in those that will be presented there will be widespread use of innovative ideas and proposals that are so respectful of the commitments made in Europe, but that is not why they are renunciation or defensive. Of course, we know that we will need hard negotiations over the coming months for prior consultation with Brussels, also with a view to the European Council to be held in June. But from this point of view we must reiterate that these are rules which must and must be interpreted in the course of discussions between the Member States and that the scope for flexibility can be extended and in some way extended to those which can now be identified. I therefore believe that we must prepare for this, partly because - it is important to stress this - a negotiation that can be successfully concluded means the possibility of vital measures for the future of our economy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u23	Mr Pegorer (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak on the order of business in order to request a short suspension - about twenty minutes - of the work of this House in order to allow the text of the motion for a resolution, which I hope will be adopted unanimously, which is now being prepared.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u24	Okay. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 16.27 p.m. and resumed at 16.59 p.m.) Colleagues, if there's any attention, we can resume the session. The debate is closed. I note that two motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1, signed by Senators Crimes and others, which has been withdrawn, and No 2, signed by Senators Bubbico, Azzollini, Bitonci, Lanzillotta, Ghedini Rita, Ferrara Mario, Uras, Fravezzi and Molinari. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Bubbico, if he wishes to speak in reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u25	Mr President, I give up my reply. I believe that the motion for a resolution No 2, signed by all the groups, is quite eloquent and deserves particular emphasis.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u26	I would ask the representative of the Government whether he intends to accept motion for a resolution No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u27	Mr President, the Government accepts motion for a resolution No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u28	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 2, the 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it will now begin. (17,03 p.m.). I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Grilli, whether he intends to respond.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank the senators and senators for the work they have done in the ad hoc Commission and for the broad debate we have had today in the Senate House. As has already been said, the Government has proposed this acceleration of the payment of past debts of the public administration, and has done so as a result of new decisions and guidelines of the European Union. As has been said, this accelerated payments programme is approximately 40 billion in two years (20 and 20 for 2013 and 2014) and the impact on net debt in 2013 is such that it is brought to 2.9 percent, close to the 3% threshold. As emphasized, it is fundamental not only to make sure that this intervention arrives in port, but also to maintain the balances of public finance, in particular the indebtedness below the threshold insurmountable of the 3%. For this reason, the successive measures that the Government has undertaken to define in a very short time must be able to grasp both the needs, that of a rapid intervention that brings in a way if not immediate in a very short time such liquidity to the enterprises on the one hand, and that of keeping the indebtedness within this threshold of 2.9% on the other. The motion for a resolution No 2, on the other hand, makes it explicit and this is a fundamental element for us: to be able to measure both the scale and the manner of intervention and the safeguards necessary for the net debt of 2.9% to be maintained.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u30	We shall then proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u33	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Misto-SEL Group, I am voting in favour of motion for a resolution No 2, which has been tabled by all the groups and which has been accepted by the Government. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to highlight the meaning of what we have tried to express already in the general debate, namely, first of all, that this transition will have an effect on the economy of our country only and only if the results that we will achieve this time will be different from those previously recorded with similar measures. In fact, it is well known that the effect of previous decrees on this matter has been absolutely reduced, so reduced that it is absolutely imperceptible. We also think that this is an opportunity to collect the real data that is still missing. We work on the basis of estimates, provided inter alia in a structured way, collected through totally different research systems, such as that of the Bank of Italy and the Government itself. These are data that do not clearly provide us with the size of the debt of the enterprises, Region by Region, and that do not help us to identify the inefficiencies. It will thus probably prove, in the course of the implementation of the decree - and it must be taken into account precisely in the phase of preparation - that some territorial systems that have been particularly virtuous, in the sense of not expanding the debt towards the enterprises, find administrative surpluses that cannot be used. Let me give an example, that of the Region of Sardinia, where overall the local regional government has recorded about 360 million debts, therefore one hundred and twenty-seventh of the total sum to be put in the field, which means a two hundred and fortyth of the estimated sum. In this case, common as the municipality of Cagliari, which advances 270 million euros, would not be in a position - because they rightly spend their resources on the business system - to activate not even one euro of that administrative surplus. We must therefore think - and this is an element of reflection - of compensation for the territorial systems and for the public administrations that behave like this. That is why, in addition to reaffirming our vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, we ask the Government to make an effort, especially on monitoring the implementation of the decree and on the clear and clear identification of the articulation of funding that will come, both on a territorial basis, and on a sectoral basis. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u36	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, human becoming has always developed in the balance between what you want, what you owe and what you can do. This is one of the few times when, in my case, the three things coincide with the measure before the House. I say this with a certain vanity, because already two years ago, Senator Fleres and I managed to get an amendment to be adopted concerning the relief of claims from public administrations. Then Minister Tremonti and Professor Grilli came to explain to us that this was not possible because it would shift the debt and then we would end up under the ax of the Maastricht agreements, resulting in a loss of the national public accounting system. Today, on the other hand, we have finally found room for our conviction that a part of the expansive maneuver, which already then and in the past year the Monti Government could have done, could have been launched. This is exactly what we are doing and, with a vote that is about to be unanimously, we are making an important maneuver, of EUR 40 billion, which has a significance not only for its importance but also for its democracy, according to the meaning that is normally attributed to the word 'democratic'. It is not in fact a maneuver for the rich, for the banks or for the oligarchy of the production and industrial structures of the country, but a maneuver that, regarding the small and the large creditors, finds the possibility to satisfy the expectations of the Country for an injection of resources that can give this nation the opportunity to realize that beginning of recovery that all the indicators say is possible, but that we still see too far on the horizon. We do, however, and in this case it is not something that satisfies my vanity or that strikes the right balance between what I want, can and must do, by violating the accounting law. In fact, today - and I say this to those who have experience and those who do not - we are voting for the possibility of covering them with public debt, which is specifically denied by the accounting law, an expenditure of EUR 40 billion, and we are doing so with a certain modesty and with a motion for a resolution which, in its last paragraph, allows the Government to re-determine the net balance to be financed from the public budget, the needs of the state sector and the programmatic objective. A short premise, for those who have experience and for those who do not. What's the DEF for, which used to be the DPEF? Introduced with the so-called reform Stammati in 1978, of which I remember very well only President Colombo can have, he realized a way to prevent the finances from being continuously covered on the debt and that therefore they would expand in the Chamber according to the demands that the individual political parties brought to the government. Before drawing up the budget, it was then decided to establish in time the limit of the debt referred to in Article 1 thereof, by means of a programming document, taking into account the indications that Parliament wanted to give to the Government. Today we are violating a principle, the principle that additional expenditure is not covered by debt, but only by an increase in revenue or a decrease in expenditure and - I must say, unfortunately, because we violate a rule - we are doing something very important, exceptional: a maneuver of EUR 40 billion with a unanimous vote of Parliament. That is, we are starting a possibility of development of the country that has no precedent in the past, and this has been a correction repeatedly requested by the Government. However, in doing so, allow this Parliament to stigmatise it in the debate that will follow, so that no government in the future can think, even for equally important things, of using such systems, covering expenditure with debt. In fact, in doing so (apart from doing the things you want), you would act against the rigor, to which we have called for a long time and that you should not forget as a firm point from which you must not deviate, because there can not be serious development without rigour. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u39	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is useful to begin my speech by quoting a passage from the note published at the end of the Council of Ministers on 21 March, which I think is particularly appropriate, in which the President-in-Office of the Council, Mario Monti, pointed out that budgetary discipline pays off; it is painful, tiring, but it makes it worthwhile. He added: Budgetary discipline also has a beneficial effect on the real economy; it results not only because European rules are not being violated, but because it comes to the point where we can afford to take measures and have them authorised by the European Union, which makes it possible to expand somewhat the strings of the public purse. My personal experience at the local administrator level leads me to fully share this statement. I am convinced that the keeping of the budget and the compatibility of available resources with expenditure commitments characterise good administration, good policy and its credibility. Unfortunately in our country it has not always been so and, for a sum of behaviors debited to cheerful economic choices operated by the past Governments, the public administration has accumulated - precisely - a significant stock of commercial debts that, according to the estimate of the Bank of Italy, would amount to 5.8% of the gross domestic product. This massive debt, in the face of a difficult international economic situation, is a cause of the current difficulties afflicting our productive system, which needs liquidity and credit, which are necessary to remove the risk of insolvency and gain greater competitiveness. In fact, a vicious circle has been created with negative repercussions, first of all on companies (many of which, if they have not ceased their activity, have been forced to reduce production and reduce the number of employees) and therefore on consumption, that is on the spending capacity of citizens. It must therefore be welcomed, albeit with the caution that the circumstances impose, the green light of the Commission and the Council of European Ministers that allows to unblock in two tranches of 20 billion between 2013 and 2014 the credits that the enterprises have from the public administration, in particular from the local authorities and from the public health structures. This will be a healthy injection of liquidity which, according to expectations, should enable the recovery of economic growth and, in particular, domestic demand already in the second half of the current year. Indeed, the report to the Economic and Financial Document argues that the payment of public administration's debts is compatible with the overall budgetary balances determined at European level and that a faster and safer recovery of economic growth will help the sustainability of Italian public finance itself. The operation - as has been estimated and underlined by the Minister and Bankitalia - will have a positive impact of 0.2 per cent of gross domestic product, while the deficit-GDP ratio will still remain below the 3% threshold, as an insurmountable limit set at European level. It is estimated that this ratio will be reduced to 1.7% in 2014 thanks to a return to growth of 1.3%. The hope we feel we are making is that the next decree-law will be immediately enacted in its implementation, unblock these payments by the public administration, contain rules aimed at simplifying and speeding up the procedures in conjunction with the forecast for local authorities of greater flexibility in the Internal Stability Pact. In fact, it is essential that the Government proceed in a prompt manner, indicating that the arrears to be paid are broken down according to the debtor and not using the certifications, which so far have produced poor results. The debt of the municipalities, estimated at around €12 billion, is largely already in the cash register, so it is enough to release it from the excessive restrictions provided for in the Stability Pact and perhaps to provide for a new rule that adapts the internal constraints for the municipalities, providing for a balance of budget on current expenditure and a limit on debt on capital expenditure, so as to allow for a balanced investment policy. For the regions and other administrations, cash advances will have to be guaranteed, as mentioned in the Commission; just as useful will be to establish a purely chronological order for payments (i.e. the older the debts and the earlier they must be paid), thus overcoming the instrumental opposition between banks and companies. With regard to this issue, I personally did not understand in the name of what principle should be penalised precisely those banks - few, however - who have agreed to advance their claims to the public administration to companies. After all, it is the banks - and not the state - that, under normal conditions, should provide liquidity to the companies: to shake a populism of a way against them therefore seemed completely out of place in this case; indeed, if anything, an excuse or a pretext is provided for them to continue not to give credit to the enterprises. It should also be remembered that providing liquidity to businesses, at a time when many are deprived of access to credit, is the most useful thing that can be done to realistically relaunch the economy. Putting EUR 40 billion in circulation in two years will create a growth multiplier, destined for the long term to reduce the deficit-to-GDP ratio and to put in circulation as soon as possible the liquidity that is lacking, paying old debts and not financing new public expenditure; it will also create development, avoid further closures of activity and unemployment, perhaps generating investments, as well as new consumption. To this measure, in the last few days, has been added the commitment announced by the director of the Agency of revenues Befera to provide VAT refunds to companies for 11 billion euros within the year. All regional managers have been invited to devote every useful resource to the liquidation of refunds over the next four months, given the current economic situation. The risk is to compromise the maintenance of the employment levels, therefore the obstacles to the growth of the Country must be removed, also through the fast payment of the volume of the credits boasted from the enterprises. All these measures, if everything goes smoothly, will be able to guarantee 30 billion euros of liquidity to companies by the year and help, perhaps, to move from despair to hope. The vote of the Autonomous Group will therefore be in favour of the motion for a resolution. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and Senator Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u42	Garavaglia (LN-Aut). Mr President, unfortunately, the figures in this report presented by the Government are uncomfortable. That ended so, honestly we of the North League had already said in the explanation of vote to the so-called decree save Italy, that everyone applauded except us. We knew it ended like this: but why? In one year, the debt-to-GDP ratio has risen from 120 to 134%, with 14 worsening points. To give an idea, colleagues, the governments of cheerful spending - Craxi and Forlani, to say the least - had increased this ratio by four points in a year: here, instead, in a year we managed to do three times worse than those governments. Why? However, we have already said this: there is a banal rule, which knows everyone who deals in the least with public finance, namely that every 15 billion euros of additional taxes, GDP falls by at least one point, if not more. We put in an avalanche of taxes and unfortunately this is exactly what happened. Let me give you an example in a thousand, about boats, which, as you know, by definition move. When a very strong taxation was introduced on the boats, we said: "Look that there is a problem." There the government was planning to collect 200 million euros, but in fact it only cashed 20, because the boats moved and 200 million were spent. In addition, we have lost EUR 1 billion for the pipeline, because we have lost important orders: so, in order to collect EUR 20 million, we have lost 1,180. It is an example, which serves just to make clear the mistakes that have been made and which have led to this situation. The same thing happened for the car and the IMU on the house, and we all know how the real estate business works. Well, in addition to that, there is another phenomenon that we had challenged. Last year we gave 46 billion euros (so 46,000 million, a huge amount) to the banks of half Europe and four billion euros to the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, for a total of 50 billion euros. Clearly, these too have had a lot of impact on that relationship. Since we can give 50 billion euros to the banks of half of Europe, holy peace, it is right that we finally give 40 billion euros to our businesses. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Unfortunately we give them in two years, and we hope that they will really get to the companies (but this we will deepen). So let's talk about payments. Already today, making another example, the Lombardy Region pays to 30 days, so it would not need the decree-law; it pays to 60 days the sanitary debts, but our goal is to carry in a couple of years also those to the payment to 30 days. So, no problem for the Region, but the Municipalities of the North, of Lombardy but not only, the Municipalities of a little 'all the country that have the money in cash cannot pay, not because of them, but because there is a stupid rule: there is the Stability Pact that prevents it. Now, if a rule is wrong, let's change it, there are no more excuses; this is the good time and therefore this rule must be changed. Moreover, having already provided for the compulsory balance of the budget also for the municipalities and local authorities with the reform of the accounting rules, at this point it makes no sense to impose further constraints such as the Stability Pact. We shall therefore see the text of the decree-law and hope that these problems will finally be resolved in it. What matters most, though, is that liquidity really comes to business. Colleagues, imagine a beautiful field with many channels that irrigate everything. Not those concrete canals where the water flows and reaches the bottom: earth canals, made in the earth, in which unfortunately, when the earth is dry because the drought lasts for a couple of years, even if you put water in the canal, the ground drinks it all and does not reach the bottom of the field. Here we are in the same situation: the risk is that, paid for the first company, it does not pay suppliers, limiting itself to improving its banking situation and trusts. So we would have solved little, really very little. Therefore, we in the North League will do everything and deepen the text because we want water to reach the bottom of the camp. We want liquidity to reach small and medium-sized municipalities and not just large and large indebted regions; we want it to reach everywhere in the public administration, but above all small and medium-sized enterprises, the real economy. This will be the effort that the North League - and I hope the whole Senate - will make in dealing with this important decree-law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups and Senators Morra and Maurizio Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u45	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Choice Group for Italy will vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 2, which we have signed together with the majority of the Groups present in the Senate. The Government and, most importantly, our country can begin to reap the fruits of the work done in the year that we have behind us; moreover, in the light of the changed European framework that, as President Monti pointed out with legitimate pride a few days ago, we have gradually changed, the Government can now move to a strategy of direct liquidation of the debts of the public administration. Acceleration of payments requires increased public expenditure and consequently a change in public finance objectives that can only take place with prior approval by the Chambers. As has been pointed out, providing liquidity to businesses at a time when they are deprived of access to credit, in the midst of a financial crisis, is the most useful thing that can be done to revive the economy. The macroeconomic impact of the payment of government commercial debts is certainly positive; the extent of the effects depends on various factors, such as the timing of the intervention, the manner in which the reimbursements will be shared among the creditor companies, the specific conditions of each of them, the effects on the expectations of companies and financial markets. For companies it is essential that, in implementing with the decree-law the indications contained in the Report, simple, clear, fast, reliable and predefined mechanisms are defined. It will also be crucial for the future to ensure that payment times are reduced to 30 and 60 days, which is the limits set by the European directive which was implemented on 1 January. What, though, is the most important political fact? It is the development of the Union's position on the relationship between budgetary discipline and growth. The results of the last European Council mark real progress in the long-awaited direction of Italy, i.e. greater balance between public finance discipline and attention to growth and employment. For months, we have been asking the European Union to give the green light to the most urgent measures for growth: payments of debts to businesses, public investment also by way of derogation from the Stability Pact, incentives for youth employment. There is not as much in the Council's outcome as we hoped: there is still no general derogation to allow account to be taken of productive investment outside the Stability and Growth Pact (the so-called golden rule). However, we cannot deny that the conclusions reached by the Council a few days ago are marked by a clear change, since no one could say, in passing, that Europe is firm and unpunished in its one-way austerity, unaware of the reasons for growth and the specific policies that it requires. They take note of the expected stagnation in 2013 and the unacceptable high levels of unemployment. The continuing stability programmes are therefore accompanied by measures for growth and the promotion of jobs, especially for young people. We are talking about what both the Member States and the Union can do to increase investment. The European response, even if it is still interim, therefore opens up spaces that we have the possibility and the responsibility to exploit. We are well aware that in a composite assembly such as the European Council, changes are becoming more and more slow than we all would like, and when they begin to manifest themselves, it is up to those who are most interested in taking responsibility for making the prospects that open up in this way concrete. There is not, in fact, what we all hoped for, but in point 3 of the Council's conclusions we recall - and I quote - the need for differentiated and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, while at the same time recalling the possibilities offered by the existing budgetary rules of the Stability Pact, and, in point 4, the European Council recalls that, in full compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact, the possibilities offered by the existing EU budgetary framework to balance the need for productive public investment with budgetary discipline objectives can be exploited in the preventive arm of the Pact itself. In these statements there is more than one general favour and support for public investment and for other short-term measures aimed at promoting growth and supporting job creation: there is also an indication of the way to achieve them, with the European consensus. Let me remind you that the preventive arm of the Stability Pact is the procedure whereby, in order to prevent excessive deficits, Member States must submit their stability and convergence programmes by April at the latest and, therefore, have the Commission's agreement on them before they run internally. It is in those programmes, therefore, that each indicates what it considers necessary to achieve both the public finance objectives and the strengthening of the economy and what else contributes to future stability. If that is the case, in the passage of the Council conclusions which I have mentioned, we cannot fail to read a transparent invitation to indicate in the April programmes the short-term measures and public investment considered essential, to discuss them with the Commission and, with the agreement of the Commission, to obtain the green light. This also solves an old issue, that of European distrust of investment by way of derogation, which is motivated by the risk of States masking expenditure from investment that is not such. Those investments enter into a procedure in which the Commission decides on the eligible ones, and it can admit them not by way of derogation, but by finally exploiting the flexibility margins offered by the Stability Pact itself, which Merkel itself has recognised, especially in favour of those countries, such as Italy, with annual indebtedness of less than 3%. In other words, today Italy can finally blackmail and partly anticipate both investment and payments to businesses and can do so despite the difficult political phase that it is going through. Last week President Monti reminded us of two things in this House, which I would like to repeat. Firstly, budgetary discipline pays, and not only because sanctions are avoided from the markets and institutions of the European Union, but also because new measures can now be taken that require public resources without jeopardising financial sustainability. Secondly, European policies can change and Europe can evolve. This requires the patient weaving of alliances and depends on the credibility that a country earns by its own action, but to do this the permanent confrontation that led politics into a dead end should leave room for collaboration. For a long time, President Napolitano has been repeating that Italy cannot find its way back into a permanent political war and does not miss an opportunity to reaffirm that extraordinary social and national cohesion is needed in the face of the very serious difficulties and the many hard trials that Italy faces in the context of the shocking financial crisis that has hit Europe and which is looming over our economies and our societies. It is precisely the Head of State who said that a rapprochement between the opposing political fields is indispensable, which does not mean confusion, it does not mean giving up their respective identities, but it means sharing the indispensable efforts to reopen to Italy a new perspective of development and give it back its role and prestige in the European community and in the international community. Since its establishment I recall that supporters of the alleged democratic illegitimacy of the Monti Government have confused the suspension of democracy with the suspension of competition. Competition between parties and between parties is a mode of the functioning of democracy, but it is not democracy. This government was born because in a climate of permanent confrontation it is not possible to make the necessary decisions to get the country out of the crisis. Even at this moment, the competition between partisan options should be replaced by collaboration on a common programme, especially when we consider that many things need to be changed in politics, in the way we do politics, in the way we produce and work, in the way we live and behave for all of us. We will not go from civil war to shared responsibilities in a moment, but the Monti Government, i.e. the current collaboration between different people, has been based on shared awareness of the gravity of the crisis: a gravity that has not failed. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the return of competition, as the joint signature of the motion for a resolution has shown, there is time and it is also time to cooperate. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u48	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, I naturally confirm that, as a 5 Star Movement, in order to be consistent with our political line of voting on ideas and measures, we have considered it appropriate to withdraw our motion for a resolution in order to agree to a common text. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, allow me to make two brief comments. We believe that all debts should be paid. Of course, we are also aware of the disastrous situation of public finances, which is the result of decades of bad governance, and it is precisely because the resources available are very scarce that we have indicated in the Commission some simple priorities: first to companies, to work, to the real economy and then to banks and finance; first to small and medium-sized enterprises and then to others; first to small works rather than large ones. We have also asked the Government to promote a new policy in Europe that can overcome too many heavy budgetary constraints. Having said that, in essence, we believe that EUR 40 billion is a necessary lifeblood for businesses and the whole economy. In the program of the 5 Star Movement the second point provides that immediate measures are needed for the revival of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is no coincidence that this point is at the beginning of our programme: we have put companies and their relaunch at the top of the list of our priorities. The recovery of the labour market depends on the revival of companies, and today in Italy there is hunger and thirst for work more than anything else. As a small entrepreneur, as well as spokesman for the 5 Star Movement, I therefore confirm our vote in favour of motion for resolution No 2 on which all parliamentary forces have agreed, knowing that it must be only the first of a series of necessary and urgent measures in favour of companies. Of course, we reserve the right to table any subsequent amendments to the Government's decree-law if the need arises. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u51	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Mr President, in this speech I will focus specifically on the effects of the report on us, and briefly on the other major variables which I believe will, however, have to be taken into account in a short time. I know I find the Treasury Minister a careful observer of economic issues. He is therefore well aware that the motion for a resolution and the report before us do not deal with what I consider to be the essential problems of the Italian economy at the present time, which are productivity and competitiveness. There is no doubt that as soon as possible these two factors, both at European and national level and within local authorities, will have to be taken into account. There is so much talk of issues that call for the attention of the press and appear on newspaper headlines; but if we were to assess them in actual terms of budgetary impact, they would be virtually negligible and would not give the nation the fuel it needs. We have two major issues to deal with, namely productivity and competitiveness, and we have various layers of legislation and standardisation that intervene on these factors; someday - hopefully today, but perhaps yesterday - we will have to consider them. It must be said, however, that the Government has done well to foresee the launch of a decree-law on one of the problems that grip the Italian economy. These are problems which in the end have an impact on both productivity and competitiveness, albeit not in the immediate future, but which, in any case, today are a factor of impediment to growth: I am referring to the unblocking of payments by public administrations. Therefore, both because the accounting law provides for it and because of a very appreciable need for transparency, the Government has submitted a report to Parliament and an update of macroeconomic data that will allow - hopefully in a very short time - the launch of the decree-law to unblock public administrations' payments. There is no doubt that the immediate effect of this measure will be an increase in public debt. There is no doubt about that. It is therefore right that, as a result of this unblocking measure, strict controls should continue to be exercised on public finance in general. I would remind everyone that debt is another of the parameters for which Italy responds in Europe and there is no doubt that an increase in debt will occur with the measure in question. The positive aspect that must be highlighted here, however, is that of an important, I would say very important, introduction of liquidity into the system and of a elimination - as we hope - of a bottleneck that is now dangerously looming over the Italian production system. I therefore believe that it is right today to unblock these figures immediately and to provide liquidity, in order to meet in some way the apparent worsening of the national macroeconomic framework, which is taken exactly into account in the Government's Report to Parliament. I would like to make two comments, two wishes for the Government, the first of which seems to me to be fundamental and is also contained in the motion for a resolution that the Groups have jointly tabled: in Italy there has already been a measure that tried to unblock the credits of the public administration, but it has not been successful because of the enormous amount of red tape. I believe that in the drafting of the measure by the Government and in the subsequent parliamentary process it is necessary to take into account the need for timeliness, so that this decree-law and this unblocking have effectiveness: if this provision is not timely it will not give any benefit. Mr Minister, then, as you know, we trust in the drafting of the decree which first avoids everything that has not allowed the effectiveness of the previous one to be explained. If it is not characterized by timeliness, this measure will not have a positive effect on the economy: therefore, the implementation of the measure must be simplified, and much has to be done, just as there is a need to limit, if not even exclude, secondary standardization, that is, that of the implementing decrees, which still lie in huge quantities somewhere. In the absence of timeliness, this measure will not be effective. The second question we would like to raise is as follows: Minister, it is clear that financial intermediaries, or rather, banks - let us call them with a more appropriate term to the crudeness of the farmer than to the refinement of the intellectual - will play an important role and will be involved in a very significant way by this measure. I believe that the determination of the Government, also towards the Italian Banking Association, must address this aspect: where the release of payments by public administrations is rightly going to repay a debt of the company towards the banking system, it is quite clear that however it cannot reduce the confidence to that enterprise, or in any case to the system of enterprises, otherwise we would not have achieved the objective that we have. This money somehow has to turn quickly, I would say immediately, to the business world. The problems of settling bank ratios have found other channels of financing, perhaps in the European Central Bank or otherwise, and they can find other channels but the problems of the banking system - which we recognize and on which we do not make easy demagogy - must not seek new power through this measure, which must be addressed immediately to companies. It is simple what I say: for example, if a company has 100 debt and 100 credit to the public administration, if the public administration gave the 100 and the bank credit was closed and the custody of the company was eliminated, the effect of the Government itself would not occur in the production system. It is therefore important in the drafting of the decree-law and in the agreements that will come, perhaps of a conventional nature, and therefore rapid, with the associations of the business and banking sector, that this destination is taken well into account. The third and final question, Minister, is as follows. In the motion for a resolution, during the hearings, various hypotheses have been taken into account in the speeches, but let us be careful to try to allocate that money to those objectives that are more directly related to growth. I am referring, for example, to the unblocking of public works by local authorities as a whole, which is fundamental. I say this because, where the local authority never manages to unlock a work with its creditor, it can immediately set in motion a new construction site. This means that money somehow goes towards a growth hypothesis. It is important, therefore, that these issues are also taken into account in the allocation of the money that the Ministry will decide on. There are some forms that have the substantial effect of providing liquidity for the company, of restoring the sector, and therefore of a new propensity to invest, but lasting over time. On the contrary, there are others that act immediately: the local authority is a classic subject that immediately, solved a problem of financing one work, puts in place another, and this has a marginal effect on growth better than other measures. But it is not up to Parliament at this time to assess exactly: both the decree-law and the parliamentary process, with the hearings of the users of this measure, will give us precise indications. However, it is good to give a direction of great simplification, of great orientation to development and, with regard to the whole of credit, more precisely to the custody of the enterprises, a substantial maintenance of the current level, and possibly an improvement, considering the provision of liquidity, and not a restriction, which would give effects exactly contrary to those for which we move. For this reason, Mr President, together with other groups, we have tabled a joint motion for a resolution, which is shared, and we think of all the groups; we will decide our colleagues in the Five Star Movement - I do not know if they have already decided - whether they will be united. This is an excellent signal that we are giving; we have discussed this for a long time, and of course the Group of the People of Freedom is committed not only to vote firmly on the motion for a resolution before us but also and above all to verify that the action proposed by the Government has, as soon as possible, concrete results in order to improve the situation in the Italian economy. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups and the Senators Chiti and Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u54	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, fellow Senators, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution, and at the same time appreciates the proposal that the Government has tabled these days, which has been a long-awaited proposal. This is a substantial intervention, which puts in place 40 billion euros (20 and 20 in the two years) of liquidity for payments of public government debt to companies, therefore liquidity for the economic and entrepreneurial system of our country. It is an important intervention, which would be unfair not to recognize as a consequence of a policy of reducing public expenditure and settling public accounts, which has enabled us - I hope in its fullness - to intervene like what is highlighted here. It is still an intervention that comes in a competitively proven economy, tried in its enterprises, in their capacity to maintain economic stability. An economy that last year saw more than 15 percent of companies shut down, and these are large numbers: 15 percent corresponds to about 40,000 companies that closed because of failures, lack of liquidity, because those who had to pay their debts did not pay them. In this case it was sometimes other companies, but at the origin of these missed payments there was always a delay guilty of the public administration. In fact, he is guilty that during these years the resources have not been found and put in place to address a topic that is not new, that has not exploded in the last fifteen days. My Group has continued to propose measures over the past five years to meet the needs of businesses, especially small and very small enterprises. When in a region like Campania the association of the builders denounces an average of more than 500 days of the times of payment between the administrations and the enterprises means that we are faced with the declaration of default of an entire economic system. Indeed, in 2012 the construction sector, which is among the most affected by this lack of payment by public administrations, reduced the number of its enterprises by 18% and by almost 50% the capacity to create value in the national economy. It has been years in which companies were not cared for, in which for too long it was thought that the accounting power of the State should be justified in the need to grow gross domestic product. And for too long, when the accounts were put under control, it was thought that controlling the accounts meant a total closure of the expenditure so that no further debts were created, but not considering that a total closure of the expenditure would block - as it blocked - the competitive capacity for growth of the system. Today we are faced with a debt stock that is higher than in the past but because gross domestic product is lower than in the past. Our country has regressed very much over the years not only with respect to the strongest competitors but also to countries in a similar way financially weak as ours and that also have put in place measures of support to the enterprises through the payment of the public administrations with a greater determination, with a greater speed, with a greater amount of resources put in field. Between the end of a parliamentary term and the beginning of a new one, we finally arrived in Europe in a position to be able to deal with an issue that had to and perhaps could be dealt with before the 2008 crisis began, that is, the amount of debt that public administrations accumulated and that the State did not want to make it a consolidated public debt stock. Today we have found a way to consolidate EUR 40 billion of debt, which will come into play in two years and will have positive effects, under certain conditions, which the motion for a resolution points out, which I want to stress to the Minister, because over the past year we have been in a position to say several times: Attention, the measures being taken do not have any effect, as there is a liquidity problem, but there is also a problem of inefficiency of the administrative machinery, there is also a problem of inadequacy of public administrations in developing choices, there is a problem of overall governance of the system. It is for this reason that we ask that the decree-law that the Government will adopt be without if and without but without, a provision that does not need implementing decrees, because half of the policy of these years has remained attached to the implementing decrees. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and LN-Aut groups and Senator Puglisi.]] We approve of the measures, but the implementing decrees do not arrive; 350 implementing decrees are pending, a political caste is incriminated but there is ample of the value and responsibility of the leaders of the public administration [[Applause from the PD, PdL and M5S groups]] , the ability to build ways that make any government action possible and plausible, any effective translation of laws, any effective translation of popular intention. This liquidity should also not be made available without transparency. Transparency is needed and it is probably right that those who have matured credits for the longest time should have access to collection first. It is certainly right to find the form and the way, as Senator Azzollini said, for money to go as far as possible directly to companies by creating in small, very small enterprises, but also in large ones, that condition that allows to put into play a positive action on investments, in order to safeguard the economic role of the enterprises and to protect the employment, that in our country the enterprises are trying to keep taking on, exclusively and on their own, the difficulties of the crisis, even when every economic indicator would advise not to go ahead. Being on the side of companies means thinking more decisively about business ratios and having more judgment than banks' capital ratios. Banks are not the priority, they are a vehicle, the vehicle that has to circulate credit and credit is to a healthy economy like blood is to circulation in a healthy body. We need credit, and in order to have it we need to start financial levers so that even those who are smaller and now cannot access the credit can find themselves in the condition of accessing it. In the very interesting hearing, the Minister made two statements a few days ago: there is a difficulty in accessing credit, but there is also difficulty in having credit, that is, when resources are put in place there is difficulty in taking them. So there are two kinds of difficulties that, look a little bit, in economic systems that see their own crisis go hand in hand. It seems contradictory, but it isn't. In fact, this is because the banks have closed most of the credit taps because they have much more insolvencies than before and they have to treat a clientele more difficult than before; but it is also true that you do not even go to the bank to ask for a credit if the institute asks for an X-ray, a blood test, everything you think necessary except, never once, to evaluate the entrepreneurial idea, the ability to support it, to do something useful for our system and for our country. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and LN-Aut groups.]] And believe me, Minister, I am not among those who think that banks should be punished. I do not think so at all; on the contrary, I think that the banks which have given their support, and which have therefore committed themselves to the system, should not be punished for this act in a particular way compared to the others. I think, however, that there is now a problem of direct support for businesses. The liquidity must reach where it is returned and put into circulation. Perhaps this will confirm the forecast that the Government does not only make a small increase in the macro-economy of the gross domestic product of 2013, therefore of the current year, but of a much greater growth that this intervention will produce in 2014, perhaps reattaching itself to an international recovery and a new general growth of the markets. This measure was absolutely necessary. It is now essential for the decree to produce within it all the necessary guidelines for money to be spent and spent before those made available, perhaps in the manner that you yourself, Minister, suggested: first 50% and then the rest. But we need liquidity immediately and immediately where there are these conditions, thus enabling our territorial administrations to operate with honesty in relation to their economic partners. It is true that they are bound by the Stability Pact, but it is true that in order to make a municipality work, to keep a school or any public service open, no mayor can fail to protect the well-being of his citizens by not intervening, because it would create an even more serious economic degradation of the social degradation that already forms part of such a situation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] To loosen the Stability Pact is to give responsibility and make it take responsibility. It also means not to let those administrators who have managed worse than others get these money. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and LN-Aut groups]] But it means choosing those administrations that have managed best by making savings. This, in fact, must not become a sanatorium for bad administrations but a reward for good administrations. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and LN-Aut Groups,]] Dear Minister, I believe that, in such a politically difficult situation, the fact that a measure can be found, among so many sensibilities very far away from one another on many subjects, a so choral, homogeneous vision of things, should induce this Government - and I hope the next one even more - to raise its head in Europe and not to go to Europe only with the hat in hand. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S and SCpI groups.]] I believe that this Government must also be put in a position to make this decree - I know that you, Minister, are able to accomplish this and you have the professionalism around you to do so - with the determination that is necessary, not looking at the excessive constraints that the various Reasonings indicate, because of reason sometimes you can die! Sometimes the economy dies of too many accountants and too few developers! [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S and SCpI Groups]] This is the moment when we need the growth and development of our country. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u55	I would warn the House that Amendment 2.2, signed by Senators Bubbico, Azzollini, Lanzillotta, Ghedini Rita, Molinari, Ferrara Mario and Bitonci, was tabled to the motion for a resolution No 2. In motion for resolution No 2, at the last paragraph, after the words "Report to Parliament", add the following: "In particular: to re-determine the net balance to be financed from the State budget up to a maximum of 31,600 million euros for 2013 and 29,100 million euros for 2014, of which 10,500 million euros in 2013 and 16,000 million euros in 2014 due to the measure for the acceleration of payments of debts of public administrations existing at 31/12/2012 to re-determine the needs of the state sector in 73,674 million euros in 2013 and 51,387 million euros in 2014, of which 20 billion euros for each of the years 2013 and 2014 ascribeable to the measure for the acceleration of payments of debts of public administrations existing at 31/12/2012." I call on the authors to explain this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u56	Mr President, I would just like to say that this amendment clarifies certain points by offering very precise numerical references and covering a gap that the document as a whole presented, thus giving certainty to the Government, so that the limits set out here are taken into account when issuing the decrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u57	I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u58	Mr President, the Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u59	I put to the vote Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Bubbico and other senators. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2 in the amended text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u62	Rossi Luciano (PdL). Mr President, before the vote on motion for a resolution No 2 in the amended text, to which I would like to add my signature, I would like to highlight the so noble and high significance that this House has been able to give with valuable speeches today on a first, desired acceleration on the many things to do, so that the many, too many emergencies can somehow find attention... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Rossi, explanations of vote have already been made. I'm sorry. Rossi Luciano (PdL). Mr President, I did not ask to speak for an explanation of vote, but to ask for my signature to be added to motion for a resolution No 2 in the amended text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u63	You can do that, of course. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Bubbico, Azzollini, Bitonci, Lanzillotta, Ghedini Rita, Ferrara Mario, Uras, Fravezzi, Molinari and Rossi Luciano, and accepted by the Government, in the amended text. It's approved. Secretary Senators tell me it was approved unanimously. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u66	TOCCI (PD). Mr President, two words to remind us of Ugo Vetere, who passed away last night. Ugo Vetere was a man of the Republic. He served her with honor and dedication in all the institutional positions he held, first as a Member of Parliament, then as mayor of Rome. The reform of the state and the needs of the popular classes were the lighthouses of its political action. He began as a young man in that great school of social reform that was the CGIL of the work plan of Giuseppe Di Vittorio. He then devoted all his energies to the city of Rome, especially to improving living conditions in its immense periphery. In the 1970s he was the protagonist of the debate on the implementation of the Regions and the transfer of powers to the Municipalities. He was among the most authoritative members of the autonomous movement, as he was then called. In fact, it conceived the decentralisation of powers to the territories as the keystone of the more general reform of the state. He served as mayor, not only in an administrative sense, but as a mission of a lifetime. His last act explains his entire work, when he came to the school "Ignazio Silone" where the caretaker had been killed and the entire school was threatened by a man in serious mental imbalance. Ugo faced it alone, with his bare hands, with the cold blood of the partisan who had been young, but with the humanity of a mayor of the people. He convinced him to be hugged, leaving the gun. He earned the Silver Medal for Civil Value, but not the victory in the elections a few months later. Today, in the time of media policy, such an event would make the fortune of any mayor, but for Ugo that was only a moral duty, a task of the first citizen, and ended there. He had taken the witness to lead the junta by two exceptional predecessors: the authoritative Giulio Carlo Argan and the unforgettable Luigi Petroselli. He carried out their projects with very effective implementation: the metro B, the Second University of Tor Vergata and above all a mass of infrastructure and services in the suburbs, always alongside the most needy people, together with his great friend Don Luigi Di Liegro. Its administration has realized the largest redistribution of resources in favor of the popular classes throughout the history of the city. For my generation he has been a master of good governance, honesty and reformist passion, but his teaching goes beyond his political side. We allow ourselves, therefore, to point out his moral and political example to young people of different orientation who today approach the service of republican institutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u67	I propose to observe a minute's silence for Senator Ugo Vetere. [[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly. General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u70	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, again for a sense of respect for the institutions, I still allow myself to be linked to what I pointed out last week with regard to the denial that I requested from the RAI leaders (and, of course, out of knowledge to the Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic), having been certified by the high branches of the administration that there is no convention in place, between the Chamber and the Senate, in favour of Members to enjoy discounts in kindergartens, hotels, restaurants and pharmacies, such as the transmission of Paragon "L'Ultima Parola" had implied by turning a false congressman and his wife to the shops talking about fanciful conventions. On Friday evening, I expected to hear a correction to a service that incited and excited people against parliamentarians in such a way that those who saw that broadcast inevitably took an attitude of revenge and liveliness towards parliamentarians, if it had been true what was said. But it was all fake. So, last Friday, apart from the dileggio and the urban ways, Dr. Paragone, instead of denying, submitted to an unsuspecting MEP a document where it was written "Circolo Montecitorio" and made her read the articles in which we talked about convention for kindergartens, hotels and restaurants: it is a pity that the Montecitorio Circle is the private circle of the employees of Montecitorio and it has absolutely nothing to do with the Chamber neither with the Senate, nor with the deputies nor with the senators! I have been a Member for years, but I have never signed up for the Montecitorio Circle, which is run by employees, such as the RAI employees' club and the post-work railway club. These are private matters. Now, however, I cannot fail to point out - and I turn to the President - that we continue, using state television and a forum that reaches millions of people every evening, to mystify reality. Even the official documents of the Chamber and Senate sent to the RAI Presidency and Directorate-General so far have not served to make it simply say what it is. I therefore believe that it is necessary to intervene in terms of dignity and - if you will - the protection of the institutions and not of the difficulties, as they were made to appear in the broadcast, because it was made to appear that my speech was linked to an economic difficulty for Members of Parliament. Far be it from me: my difficulty is to carry out this function at the moment when a derogatory and defamatory campaign is taking place against Members and Senators, who excite public opinion to hatred of the institutions. I therefore call on the presidency of the Senate once again to take responsibility with state television for the need to ensure that citizens are simply informed that there is no kind of convention in place to allow Members and senators to enjoy some kind of discount in any commercial or economic activity, whether in Rome or outside Rome. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u71	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-7.ana.u72	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, April 3, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 and the second at 16, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.21 a.m.
