ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u4	As already announced to the groups on the short routes, at 4 p.m. tomorrow afternoon, at 4 p.m., the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea will answer questions concerning hydrogeological failure and waste management.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00034 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lepri and other Senators, 1-00084, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other Senators, 1-00086, presented by Senator Esposito Giuseppe and other Senators, and 1-00089, presented by Senator Morra and other Senators, on policies to combat poverty. I call Senator Lepri to explain motion 34 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled a motion to voice the cry of pain, tears and resignation of millions of people living in our country today, a condition of material poverty. It is not useless to remember that there are others of poverty: institutional, relational, for example. But today we want to focus on the issues of material poverty: poverty that is increasing dramatically without there being an equal increase in awareness on the part of the public and by the parliamentary forces. There are many indisputable data that represent this dramatic phenomenon. It is enough for everyone to mention the ISTAT figure that shows us that from 2010 to 2011 the percentage of people in absolute poverty has risen from 6.9% to 11.1%: that is, 4 out of 100 people, from 2010 to 2011, have fallen into absolute poverty. But above all those who are at the forefront of the fight against poverty tell us: social services, reception centres and food distribution centres that tell us: We are no longer able to counter an increasingly rampant phenomenon. (Brusio). Mr. President, if you help me talk, why...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u7	Colleagues, I believe that the subject of this motion should be dear to everyone. It is permissible to enter the Chamber, but it is also our duty to allow Mr Lepri to explain his motion. Go ahead, Senator Lepri.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u8	Thank you, President. As I said, the causes of this phenomenon are known. The best known ones are due to the economic crisis, but perhaps not all colleagues are fully aware of the fact that in this sector, over the last five six years, draconian cuts have been made and not the linear cuts (the only small polemic I allow) that have been remembered in a motion. It is indeed a matter of decisive cuts. Let's just think about the fact that a few years ago the Social Policy Fund amounted to over EUR 800 million, while in 2012, in the 2013 budget, it was EUR 40 million. Then, fortunately, the government intervened and reported it for 2013 to 340 million euros. However, the fact remains that we are largely below expectations. If these figures are added to the resources reduced by the regions, the cuts not linear but much more sensitive that the local authorities have had to undergo in recent years, then we can see the total difficulty in the services of combating poverty. We know that even within our majority there are different views on how to combat this dramatic phenomenon. In order to simplify, there are those who believe that money transfers are sufficient, indeed much grown in recent years (I think, for example, the disability allowance), together with a subsidiarity that alone, if well organised, would be enough to counter this phenomenon. Of course, this is not the place, because there is very little time available to deal with these strategies: the Commission will be competent to allow us to redesign policies to combat poverty. It is clear, however, that action is needed to date. I am addressing in particular those who rely, or would rely solely on, the important recipes of subsidiarity. It is precisely the charitable realities (voluntary work and social enterprises) that tell us that we need to intervene without further delay with more resources. On the other hand, it is another thing to believe that the third sector must and can intervene in an absolutely active way, as a protagonist, in policies to combat the phenomenon. In our system we indicate three urgent measures: firstly, a strong increase in the allocation of the resources of the Social Fund which - I repeat - is largely insufficient; the total availability of resources to carry out the experimentation of the new social card; finally, the completion of the social card initiative, already started with the Berlusconi Government for the whole of 2013. Our Group will speak with the words of our colleagues Favero, Pegorer and D'Adda on other issues and, in particular, on the unblemished morosity that affects thousands of people who are at risk of no longer being able to live in public housing because - precisely - of the impossibility of paying with their own resources, demonstrating their guilt and not being there, if not in any part, the resources they could have available up to this year thanks to regional and municipal interventions. Let us not forget that a few years ago the government finally cut off resources to finance the blameless morosity. Well, even this phenomenon is now unsustainable and is leading to truly dramatic situations. In conclusion, we believe that there must be a rage of responsibility on this issue, greater attention on the part of the Government and Parliament, knowing that the measures of contrast must meet the need for a new vision and a new perspective; however, we know that today poverty cannot wait for a redesign of public policies and therefore we immediately ask, beyond the minimum amounts that we have indicated (without which we have reason to believe that policies to combat poverty in Italy can no longer be achieved), that action should be taken hard and convincingly. In this sense, we expect a strong commitment from the Government and Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Liuzzi and Torrisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u9	I call Senator Volpi to explain motion No 84.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u10	Mr President, today we are certainly dealing with a central issue, but in the end it is not unrelated to what we discussed with the President-in-Office of the Council yesterday. One thing is certain: the word "poverty," which is present within the motions under examination, sad and scary. These are themes that may have returned to our attention after a long time. For many years for us poverty was about the multitudes perhaps driven out by the droughts of Africa or by the favelas of some cities in South America; Today, unfortunately, it is about something that we forgot, such as the neighbor, the elderly or those who, out of pride, do not want to say that they are in a state of poverty. This is one of the concerns that we must address together. Today, first of all, Madam Deputy Minister, we need to perhaps reconstruct a new map of poverty, which must find us involved as political actors. It is a new map, because precisely in these new poverty there are those who do not imagine that at this moment it has difficulties; in it there is really, as I said before, that neighbor that we have known and that we see every day, but that we ourselves do not know how to approach to tell him that maybe he needs help. However, there are widespread poverty, such as those of those who have been expelled from the world of work, or those of those who may have had a business and now even arrives at the dramatic gesture of suicide because they do not know how to deal with these problems. Madam Deputy Minister, we had a brief chat earlier, and I know that despite the procession of presences that certainly... (The Deputy Minister Guerra is approached by some senators). Mr President, I am trying to do my part, but I ask the representative of the Government to pay attention to me for ten minutes: then I will let her do whatever she wants. I also apologize to my colleagues. Madam Deputy Minister, in the informal interview we had earlier you made a couple of requests to find a solution for our motion to be appreciated as well. You referred to the market side. It is said, it is true, that markets do not belong to a social dimension (I do not believe that this is the case: that is not the problem); but I believe that we need to reconstruct together a profile of social and economic relations within the country that is more of a guarantee for all that concerns people. And people aren't far or different from the market, Mrs. Deputy Minister. In these years we have also imagined, not always easy, that it was necessary to proceed to a reconstruction of inalienable platforms, which are not simply rhetorical or theoretical realities. It was in fact believed that, after the failure of almost all the economic theories that have brought us up to now, with the drama of the moment, it was important to identify something to imagine possibly with a new name. I do not know if it is social liberalism, because it would be a new interpretation, but I am referring to the need to find within this relationship between people and the market values that have been absolutely lost. As we know, the moment of crisis that leads to these great situations of discomfort is also due to choices consisting in the simple financialization of a heritage to be put back into circulation with its reality within the economy. This has not been the case and there has been an inevitable global collapse. However, our responsibility is to go all the way, to find together that new dialogue - as I said to the President of the Council yesterday - between the social and economic players: to resume a relationship, which is not only theoretical, between the representatives of our society. We really need to identify not just the financial provisions (although it is absolutely important: as my colleague said before, I think it is necessary to find financial provisions to be made available later): we must also recover what was there before, leaving the virtual and returning to the social networks that existed. The theory doesn't explain how they worked, but there were: the neighborhood, the yard, the street, the neighbor who helped you. All of this is no longer there today; unfortunately there is the loneliness of poverty and pride, of which I mentioned earlier, of not wanting it or of not being able to admit it. We need to listen (a lot of listening), which can be provided by the political actors, but there is also the third sector - as a colleague said earlier - which is very important. I still think that there is an important network in our territory, consisting of parishes, which is not a legacy, but a value, and that there are aspects in which a social agent can understand before an administrator where one must and can intervene. We have also proposed that, in this context, what we consider to be the virtuous aspect of federalism should be reactivated, not in order to make inequalities, but rather to allow certain situations to be faired seriously, also with regard to costs: in particular, Madam Deputy Minister, we know those of health, where there can be no difference, speculation and pockets of lawlessness, which inevitably affect those situations, because they constitute the first approach and the inevitable front line for those people who have needs to be given answers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Madam Vice-Minister, as you have seen, at the last point in the motion for a resolution No 84, we also simply ask that we all make a commitment together to look at the positive nature of our history in the sphere of social, individual and organized, because that will perhaps be an essential part of our ability to respond immediately. The Government, the State, the Regions can provide financial supplies and create conditions through active policies, but we need to know our social network. Let's get out of the virtual, let's go back to everyday reality, let's return to solidarity of closeness and let's do it with the correctness that I believe can bring everyone together, outside the political connotation, remembering our great traditions. I ask you, Madam Deputy Minister, to appreciate our motion for a resolution, for what it is. I have read the motion tabled by my colleagues in the Democratic Party, which is basically an articulated one in its system, as if it were a bill: perhaps it was before and then translated into a motion. I think there is a conciliability, but the important thing is the commitment that, rather than administrative and political, must be first and foremost the human commitment of those who know they can do something. [[Applause from the LNP Group and the Senators Collina and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u11	I call Senator Esposito Giuseppe to explain motion No 86.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u12	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today can be a beautiful day for Parliament, a day where the last, the weakest, is again at the centre of our interest and debate: what we often call the invisible. The financial crisis, which has manifested itself in Italy for some years, but which has world origins, needs an immediate response, which in the motion that I describe as innovative and concrete. It is necessary, urgent and improcrastinable an overall intervention in order to reorganize the program of Italian welfare, aimed at improving the lives of citizens, in the situation of difficulties and poverty that many go through these days: not only, therefore, a financial response, but cultural, social and political. During this period, we are witnessing the transformation of poverty into poverty and this impoverishment is leading to a fall in dizzying consumption and an enormous increase in unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. This new poverty provokes a new social vulnerability: the person left alone, especially in difficult urban contexts, made of weak relationships, becomes increasingly fragile, with a disarticulated social life, making daily life more blackmailable by the unsustainable increases in rates and paid services. This involves many families and local-territorial authorities' coffers are often in difficulty to give the necessary answers to the needs of all of us citizens. And to the state unable to play its social role, thanking God, has added and, not uncommonly, replaced, the associationism of non-profit. The financial situation, consumption and deterioration of the social state and primary goods are getting worse and worse. From the ISTAT data of May 2013 and referring to 2011 and 2012, in the Annual Report to the Parliament of the Guarantee Authority for Childhood and Adolescence and from the data of the European Union it emerges that material deprivation affects not only citizens with the lowest incomes but also those with the highest average incomes. Moreover, the number of people who declare that they cannot afford an adequate meal at least every two days (about 16.6 percent, which has tripled in the last two years) is growing steadily. There is a growing number of people living in families who cannot afford unexpected expenses of a relatively small amount, reaching 41.7 percent (they were 38.6 percent in the previous year). In 2012 in Italy, 1.8 million minors, over 17 percent of all children and adolescents, lived in conditions of relative poverty, while 7 percent, equal to 723,000 children, lived in conditions of absolute poverty. The quota was higher in the Mezzogiorno, equal to 10.9%, compared to 4.7% in the Centre and in the North of the country. The data provided by Confcommercio confirm that the continuous deterioration of income and employment has led in 2013 to a decrease in demand even more negative compared to 2012, while the contraction of consumption in the 2012-2013 two-year period is 7.3%, which is equivalent to a decrease in household spending of about 52 billion euros. Not to mention the unemployment rate, which reached 12.8% in Italy, while youth unemployment reached 53%. Eurostat confirms this in a visual way, placing Italy in fourth place among the countries of Europe, after Greece, Spain and Portugal, for aggregate data of youth unemployment. To youth unemployment must be added the negative figure of the contraction of the so-called adult workers, with the expulsion from the labour force of citizens who have difficulties in relocating to new jobs or companies, both for an age factor and for specialization. Between 2011 and 2012, about one million fewer people were employed in the so-called adult sector. More and more people who are considered to be the poor of today until a few years ago were considered our middle class who could arrive, with a happy expression, "end of the month" dignifiedly. Today these people are increasingly resorting to the canteens of the poor to survive. Colleagues, our commitment must be to strengthen the relationship between Parliament, the Government and the social forces in order to fight together, also with non-profit associations, the emergency of poverty, establishing to restore dignity to the person, to the family and to the work of all: a common path on ways and times of solution. We call on our motion to report annually to Parliament on the measures and initiatives that are intended to be implemented against poverty, not only in support of income, but mainly in terms of services provided to families, from school to public transport, making the most of local authorities and organisations that are not profitable. We need to reverse the trend of linear cuts in assistance and basic services to citizens, and instead we need to attack unproductive public expenditure, linking spending to the responsibility of the centres that operate. Then we must commit ourselves to promoting real and true integration between social welfare and health policies; from their proper balance we could have the results in the medium term. Finally, we must relaunch the National Plan against Poverty and Social Exclusion, called "Help Italy Helping". This plan, promoted by the Berlusconi IV Government, has produced excellent results in terms of responding to the needs of citizens. The tools covered by this experience, such as the social card, which gave immediate results, must be put back on track: a tool that must be used in a subsidiary key by delegation of non-profit associations to its management. Colleagues, starting with the conclusion, my invitation, also expressed in the motion, is to find in this House and in the country a synthesis and convergence on the problem that should not divide us either on the analysis or on the solution. The pain of these months, the deaths of despair, the misery that is increasingly present in our lives and in our cities must push us to multiply the efforts of unity and solution, for a more modern country that respects individuals and accompanies the family on the path of life. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senators Lepri and Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u13	I call Senator Catalfo to explain motion No 89.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u14	Mr President, Madam Vice-Minister, economic relations continue to photograph an Italy in crisis: data on inactivity and employment are among the worst in Europe. According to the ISTAT data updated in March 2013, employment on an annual basis decreases by 1% and the unemployment rate stands at 12.8%. The purchasing power of households in 2012 decreased by 4.8 percent and, again in 2012, the disposable income of households in current values decreased by 2.1 percent. According to Confcommercio's report, "The economy and work within the crisis" presented on March 22, 2013, in Italy there will be more than 4 million poor and a consumption squeeze of 2.4 percent. There are more than 9 million Italian citizens who do not receive any income and therefore at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Madam Deputy Minister, they are unemployed and unoccupied, citizens who can no longer find work, who do not seek it, who have lost hope. They are citizens who have lost their motivation; they are desperate citizens; they are citizens who need the State to accompany them in their life plan, to make them believe that they can have a future. As Codacons pointed out, the decline in consumption dramatically affects food consumption, down 4.7% compared to February 2012. According to data provided by the report "Reddito e condizioni di vita" by ISTAT, 28.4% of people resident in Italy are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. We have a goal to achieve, for the Europe 2020 Strategy: to help people at risk of poverty, to increase the employment rate, to protect Italian citizens who no longer manage to live. In the report released in October 2012, Caritas highlights that among the people who addressed its centres in 2011 there is an increase in those belonging to categories that until recently were not affected by the issues in question. Another important fact from the INPS social budget is that it involves pensioners: 77 per cent of pensioners receive a pension of less than EUR 1,000 per month and even part of a pension of less than EUR 500 per month. I live in a city in Sicily, Catania. Well, I was very surprised, ladies and gentlemen, to see, when the local markets are over, pensioners pick up the waste so that they can eat. We have a great responsibility: one cannot allow a man or a woman who has lived their lives in our land to be forced to lose the dignity enshrined in Article 3 of the Italian Constitution and to go and collect the waste in order to live. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] The so-called exodates, according to data provided by the INPS, amount to 390,000 and, despite being safeguarded to date about 130,000, the phenomenon still remains dramatic. There are still 111,000 workers who are at risk of job loss. This is happening today. We need to find a way to help citizens live a decent life. In the policies undertaken so far to defeat poverty, such as the gas bonus, the energy bonus, the rent contributions and the various cheques, an organic income integration design has been missing. The experimentation of the social card also appears to be a weak measure and, as Senator Sara Paglini said yesterday, it is a measure that takes away dignity from the citizen. We don't have to beg the citizens. We are citizens with equal dignity, all of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the face of such a dramatic picture, it would be necessary to launch a policy to combat poverty, taking back the best examples of Europe. Italy is the only nation, not the only one: there is Greece with us - not having established a basic income, a minimum income of citizenship, an income of dignity: because we are talking about this. We are the only ones in Europe. On 21 October 2010, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on minimum income in the fight against poverty and the promotion of an inclusive society in Europe, with 540 votes in favour against. This resolution, even more clearly than a previous one on the same subject, adopted in 2008, fully enshrined the recognition of a right of the citizens of the European Union - and therefore of Italy - and of the persons who reside there permanently on an income which safeguards their social dignity. In implementing the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, minimum income is defined as a fundamental social right - colleagues, fundamental - designed to serve as an instrument to protect the dignity of the person and his/her ability to participate fully in social, cultural and political life. Full participation in social life is required, as an objective to be guaranteed by the Italian Republic, by Article 3 of the Constitution. Measures for the implementation of citizenship income are present throughout Europe. Citizenship income is the instrument that ensures, in the main, the autonomy of people and their dignity. Citizenship income is the only instrument that guarantees the flexibility of work, because, if linked to a true reform of Italian welfare, to a reform of Italian public services, to the reorganization of the public services network and if linked to the national system of certification of the citizens' competences, it guarantees to the State, the citizen, the companies the possibility to recover from the crisis. The 5 Star Movement, as indicated also in its motion, therefore asks the Government to take initiatives to introduce the guaranteed minimum income, preparing a plan that identifies the audience of those entitled, considering as an indicator the number of citizens living below the poverty line. It also asks the Government: to proceed with the allocation of the resources of the National Fund for social policies agreed at the Conference of the Regions, in order to make these resources immediately available to the Regions themselves and, therefore, to the managing bodies; to find the necessary resources, also through the fight against tax evasion and the redistribution of wages, as well as pensions; to implement specific social and employment policies for the unemployed and unemployed between thirty and fifty-four years of age. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u15	Colleagues, I would like to inform the House, as has already been made known to the Groups in the short term, that after the vote on the motions on policies to combat poverty, we will proceed to the secret ballot by electronic procedure for the election of nine actual members and nine alternate members of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u16	I declare the debate open. Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the documents before us strongly call for attention to be paid to the issue of growing poverty as a possible wake-up call for the emergence of a serious social crisis in our country. Yesterday President Letta himself, here in the Senate Chamber, in his reply to the debate on the next European Council, reminded us that: As is often the case in Western societies, those in extreme poverty often and willingly are not citizens of the political arena. In addressing the issue of poverty in Italy - he reminded me who preceded me - it is certainly necessary to start from the dramatic data of ISTAT that show that, at the end of 2012, there were almost 15 million individuals in condition of deprivation or economic discomfort: a figure that represents about 25% of the Italian population (40% in the South). In serious discomfort, still according to ISTAT, there are 8.6 million people, that is 14.3 percent of the total, with an incidence more than doubled in two years. The adoption of this situation, confirmed by the data of Confcommercio, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Caritas and Eurispes, must make us reflect on the root causes of this phenomenon, which does not seem to diminish, but which could further worsen without specific corrective interventions in redistributive policies. From this point of view, the regulatory measures that led to the increase of the National Social Policy Fund of 300 million euros, implemented by the last law of stability, and the same experimentation of the new social card, were certainly important. However, it is difficult to think of overcoming this dramatic situation without understanding the underlying reasons, very profound and indicative reasons for a real system crisis. Italy - as the previous speaker reminded me - is, together with Greece, the only European country where there is not yet a single policy to combat poverty and a last social protection network for families under a certain economic condition. As is well known, Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz argues that, when inequalities grow, a negative spiral arises, he also notes that, in countries where the rich are increasingly rich and the poor increasingly poor, gross domestic product tends to decrease. According to the analysis of Stiglitz and Krugman himself, the main problem of all advanced and highly industrialized economies is the weakness of aggregate demand, i.e. the demand for goods and services expressed by an economic system as a whole. In view of the fact that the proportion of income spent on the purchase of goods and services is, by necessity, higher in low incomes, inequality in the distribution of income has become a structural problem. If consumption is to be restarted, it is essential for the economy to be restarted, and we understand the importance of adopting policies that promote a fairer distribution of wealth. A recent study commissioned by the EU under the Seventh Framework Programme to a pool of research groups from different European universities shows that Italy is among the countries experiencing the greatest inequalities in income distribution, second only to the United Kingdom in the European Union and with levels of disparities above the OECD average. It also emerges from this study that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer and that wealth is moving more and more towards the elderly population, at the expense of the younger generations. The 30 countries considered in the study were classified by macrogroups, depending on the dynamics recorded between the eighties and the first decade of 2000. In this context, Italy is part of the group of Mediterranean countries which show quite high levels of inequality. Finally, the study considers the effects of education levels and labour market dynamics on the generation of inequality in income distribution, which in turn affects social and political behaviour. Progressive schooling in developed countries over the last century has reduced inequalities in education levels, of course, but this has not resulted in an effective reduction of income inequalities as well, as the labour market has changed profoundly. It is noted, in fact, that the newcomers to the world of work are certainly more educated than before, but now less guaranteed, therefore less able to save and, therefore, to ensure income from capital and property. It is therefore necessary, as a whole, to rethink a redistributive policy for growth and economic development and a distribution system that goes beyond short-term interventions, because we are faced, as has been said, with a profound system crisis, which must be attacked and faced with structural policies and with a real change of paradigm compared to the most recent past. I shall conclude, Mr President, by asking you to be able to attach the rest of the speech to the proceedings. On this ridge I believe that every Italian and European response must move to the very difficult phase we are going through. Hence the expectation of the forthcoming results of the European Council itself on 27 and 28 June. Finally, I would ask the first signatory of motion No 34 (text 2) to be able to add my signature. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u18	Senator Pegorer, the Presidency authorizes you to attach the remainder of the speech. He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u19	Mr President, Madam Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard a lot of issues in the debate. All interventions can be shared and photograph a difficult situation. I would like to refer my speech back to something already said by Senator Esposito in illustrating our motion, that is to say to two fundamental words: subsidiarity and horizontal cuts. We know the country's numbers and situation. Allow me to make a remark about the interventions: the State allocates the resources, but according to the principle of vertical subsidiarity they then go to the Region and the Municipalities, and the latter - as is well known - are the bodies closest to the citizens who, according to the aforementioned principle of horizontal subsidiarity, provide services to the citizens. These services are constantly increasing and resources are never enough. I am referring to home educational support for children, so our children, our children, school canteens, interventions for the elderly, therefore the elderly, who have had a strong increase towards home care (think of home meals) in order to counter the enormous expenses that must be incurred to pay the rights of the elderly in nursing homes. I am also referring to the targeted economic interventions already made by the municipalities towards citizens below a certain level of income, of course: even then the municipalities are no longer able to cope with resources. So, after vertical subsidiarity, we arrive at horizontal subsidiarity. We cannot forget, when we talk about issues such as those mentioned in the motions for our examination, the role of volunteering. Volunteering - Catholic and secular - is doing a lot in our municipalities and local authorities (it is no coincidence that Caritas' report has been mentioned, which highlighted very worrying data), and we know that if there was no volunteering with horizontal subsidiarity it would be impossible to give answers to families, causing unfortunately those phenomena, which concern us, of social tensions that have just been mentioned here. So the concept of subsidiarity unites and goes along with that of horizontal cuts. It is no longer possible to cause horizontal cuts in budgets because what the State does then is done by the Regions, and then by the Municipalities, in sequence. I would like to mention - and I have not mentioned this before - the issue of rents and houses that go to low-income families; even here all the funds have been cut. The State, therefore, needs to intervene in a double sense. First of all, it must avoid horizontal cuts, otherwise local authorities act accordingly. In the presence of horizontal cuts, all the services I have mentioned before (homeliness for families and the elderly, interventions for children, economic interventions aimed at families in difficulty) suffer drastic reductions. The municipalities are not able to support, according to horizontal subsidiarity, families in difficulty, but above all do not succeed families, the elderly, who have built this country, do not make it all to put themselves on the same line in the race of life. This is a concept that has already been mentioned, which we cannot accept. Without subsidiarity and without the interventions mentioned, of course, we cannot continue. Then we need a reversal of the trend, Mrs. Deputy Minister: we cannot proceed with chronic assistantism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Chronic assistantism causes horizontal cuts: if you have to support, you do not bring autonomy. Instead, I believe that instead of chronic assistantism, we need to go towards the assistance that leads to the autonomy of the person, because only this gives all the people the dignity of which I heard before. For example, the economic interventions of the municipalities are aimed at families who do not have family heads or those who do not have income; these interventions, and I conclude, President, cannot continue for a longer period of time, I know, than six months. The people who access the targeted economic interventions must have the obligation, naturally supported by the municipalities, to register at the centres for the employment of the Provinces, to look for work also through that volunteer I was talking about before. Otherwise, it becomes chronic welfareism and not assistance that leads to autonomy and therefore this also takes away dignity from people. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u20	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u21	Mr President, let us consider today's anti-poverty debate very unique. We do not have clear if the attempt of the majority members of the Government is to distance themselves from those austerity policies that the Government of the broad understandings is carrying out in full continuity with the Berlusconi and Monti Governments, as Senator Monti yesterday reminded and specified to all of us: difficult and unpopular choices - said Monti - that the Government must take for the good of the country. But what would be the good of the country? The policies of cuts and austerity have so far only produced impoverishment and postponed the famous growth. Italy is a wounded country in depth, this is the merciless analysis of the 2013 Global Rights Report edited by social forces and the third sector: consumption decreases, families can no longer cope with the costs of medical care and examinations, they can not pay the bills and the heating of the house. Poverty is growing, while the risk of exclusion now affects a quarter of the population. Between 2012 and the first three months of 2013 121 people took their lives due to the worsening of their economic conditions. Today, one third of young people have no work. Over 160 industrial crises are underway, including those of Ilva, Lucchini and FIAT. The purchasing power has returned to the values of ten years ago and more than 50 municipalities of medium size are on the verge of the financial failure. Poverty in Italy is not only made up of extreme marginalities, about which President Letta spoke yesterday and which we take care of, even if it does not have political representation: today the poor are a large group of the population, because Italy in recent years has become one of the most unequal countries in Europe, with the average wages decreased considerably. The inequality of Italian society is measured precisely in the growing gap between rich and poor: every rich person has the income of 100 poor people. 10 percent of the wealthiest families have 45 percent of the total wealth - a true feudal pyramid that has produced social injustice and therefore inequality. The weight of public debt, the obligation to austerity, the constraints imposed by Europe, the reduction of taxes, the lowering of protections and rights have produced a sacrificial victim: welfare, the social state that in past years has marked the pace of public policies to combat poverty. Yesterday, President Letta told us that we get out of poverty with the centrality of work; well, in order not to turn out a slogan, active policies are needed for quality and dignified work, work for the many young unemployed, women, the unemployed, for those who have lost their jobs after fifty years and for the generation of the thirty-forty, that late generation: late for work and for the family; late for retirement, as well as for rights, because precariousness is normal. Courageous and urgent choices are needed, starting with the elimination of the so-called Fornero reform that has produced the social disaster of the exodus and of the many never retired of small and medium-sized enterprises, a reform that has not facilitated the access of young people to the workplace, on the contrary, has institutionalized a great intergenerational conflict. In order to allow autonomy and freedom to avoid the blackmail of precariousness, especially for young people, it is necessary to finally establish the guaranteed minimum income: the right to that free and dignified existence provided for in Article 36 of the Constitution. This measure is already planned in almost all countries of Europe, with the exception of Bulgaria, Greece and Italy. The minimum income is recognized to everyone as a subjective right; it benefits those who do not have a job or have a low income, as happens in countries like Germany. We say we want to achieve European standards, but we are not aware of being an exception in Europe: unemployment and precariousness do not mean the same thing in France, Portugal and Italy. It is also urgent to return, if not increase, resources to the National Social Policy Fund, which has lost 90% of resources over a three-year period, from the allocation of EUR 435 million in 2010 to only EUR 43 million in 2012. Combating poverty means funding for children, immigration and the family; funds, for example, for social agriculture, to promote agricultural activities, to generate inclusive benefits and to promote the socio-working integration of disadvantaged and at-risk people, as well as to promote the development and social cohesion of local communities, thus countering the policy of cuts in social services and taking advantage of the great opportunities offered by multifunctional agriculture. Combating poverty must mean re-financing the non-self-sufficiency fund. To have it reset was an act of barbarity, cruelty and marginalization. In addition, just take away resources from the National Health Service in the name of spending review! Italians today pay with their own pockets to treat themselves: 84.6 percent of Italians paid for health, on average, 1,156 euros in a year and you understand why they increase those who give up treatment and drugs because of their cost. Stop the indiscriminate increase in tickets and enlarge the LEAs, by inserting dental care: those who give up dental care for the high costs that can no longer be met (and among these many children) are on the increase. People are on the increase who are evicted. We are a country that invests 0.1% of social spending in the right to housing, and in ten years we have cut 95% of the rent fund. We can't guarantee anything even to people who work and have an income, but they can't. So of the 290,000 evictions issued in the last five years, as many as 240,000 are for morosity and many more we will see in the coming years. Therefore, a quality public social building plan is urgently needed, using the experience of self-construction, recovering buildings to be destroyed and giving housing to social rent. Of course, it is necessary to free local authorities from the constraints of the Stability Pact and our country from the unconstitutional grip of fiscal compact. We, unlike what was said yesterday in this House, would be very pleased if President Letta could open a gap in Europe on these issues: it would mean restoring resources to the regions and local authorities for genuine policies of combating poverty, policies of inclusion and good citizenship, policies that can and must see the involvement of all social actors, of the rich world of the third sector, but in a clear subsidiarity relationship, which must not end in corporateism and socialism, through projects of reception, inclusion and integration, and not for the distribution of cards. Structural reforms, therefore, and not charitable interventions, which risk yet another fragmentation of resources. Only by giving real centrality to work, using the tax lever to redistribute wealth, as provided for in Article 53 of the Constitution, overcoming the fiscal compact, investing in health and social policies, introducing the guaranteed minimum income, can we give support and hope to people in difficulty and, at the same time, restart the Italian economy. Rule, in fact, means choosing. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u22	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies senators and senators, very kindly Deputy Minister Guerra, the social policies adopted in recent years by our country are affected by the lack of a fundamental element, that of perspective. The lack of such a common denominator turns against who should be the active object of such intervention, that is, young people. According to the latest ISTAT data quoted by the Childhood and Adolescence Supervisor in the annual report presented on 10 June, Italy lives in relative poverty as many as 1,822,000 minors, that is 17.6 percent of children and adolescents, and 7 percent of minors live in absolute poverty. There is also a risk of poverty and social exclusion for children and adolescents living in families with three or more minors, 70% in the Mezzogiorno. Moreover, as Minister Carrozza said, the lack of means cannot continue to translate increasingly into social and cultural exclusion, and school dispersal and social unemployment are intimately linked. Then there is also the least recourse to health care to worry us very much; this puts at risk a very important aspect in our country, in which we have really made enormous steps, that of prevention. Poverty is therefore a great risk. As stated by the Guarantor, the economic and social crisis that Italy and the rest of the world are facing in recent years cannot be the only cause of this state of affairs. The gradual reduction of resources - we have heard colleagues refer to this - carried out mainly with regard to the most disadvantaged areas in our country, but which then had a relapse also in the municipalities that have to guarantee the services, has only made this situation worse. As President Grasso rightly said, we are faced with moral impoverishment, where the words justice, culture and protection of fundamental rights seem to have disappeared from vocabulary and social fabric. Although progress and commitment, already mentioned, by the third sector and social volunteering have enabled some important achievements to be achieved in this field, much remains to be done. I shall therefore turn to the content of points (b) and (c) of the motion No 34 (text 2) tabled by us. The new social card can be a first step in the fight against child poverty, starting with the most marginal families, compared to the labour market. The experimentation of this new social card, initiated by the interministerial decree of 10 January 2013, consists of a monetary transfer reserved for families in poverty living in the 12 municipalities with more than 250,000 inhabitants. You see, Mr Catalfo, I think that scientific testing is positive (this is the first time in Italy). It is a widespread procedure in other countries and at international level in which the effectiveness of the programme is measured by comparing the results achieved by the group of beneficiaries with the situation of the group, statistically comparable, which however did not participate in this experiment. It will last one year and the management will finally be entrusted to the municipalities. The Government has allocated a budget of 50 million euros that will be distributed among the municipalities based on the incidence of absolute poverty detected by ISTAT in the different areas of the country. This programme is aimed at families in difficulty. Compared to the old card, there are advantages: the old card was reserved for families with the elderly and those with children under the age of three years and provided for a transfer of only 40 euros per month; the new card is intended for families with at least one child and provides for a transfer of amounts between 231 and 404 euros per month and a take-over from social services. So, we've got a knock-down against widespread, chronic welfare. Some aspects can undoubtedly be improved, but I do feel like saying a few things. The first suggestion is that poverty can cause dangerous social tensions. The second, Mr President, is that the lack of participation in the democratic life of entire sections of the population, excluded because of the school dispersal that does not allow access to a worthy cultural level, will de facto give a few people the task of representation. I shall conclude by quoting Mr Grasso again, who is a source of inspiration for me today. In order to resolve what President Grasso calls a real social issue, we must also put, through this motion, the problem of poverty at the heart of the action of the institutions and the government in order to put a stop to the scourge of poverty, which affects children and their families. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u24	Senator Munerato is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would have expected everything except that in our country we had to face a motion in Parliament to commit the government to urgent measures aimed at curbing the exponential growth of the phenomenon of poverty. We naively thought that poverty should be classified as an extreme condition due to external factors which are clearly identifiable and relegated only to certain disadvantaged categories and classes of society. The international economic crisis that has struck us violently also on our country has opened our eyes and has given us a scenario of severe depression and recession that has caused a slow and inexorable spread of poverty. The corrective measures to restore the accounts implemented by successive governments since 2007 (the reference year of the beginning of the crisis to date) have produced a precarious balance in the budgets of those citizens and those families considered first to be middle class, exposing them to poverty risk. Among the corrective measures we remember: the growth of taxation, which - it should be remembered - has also affected a primary good as the first home; the reform of labour and pensions, which, as a distorting effect, has produced the well-known and notorious phenomenon of exodates, obscene term fruit of the fantasy of political commentators, but behind which there are situations of enormous suffering. We are talking about people with a name and a surname, about children and grandchildren who, at any moment, found themselves without any income and who, in the worst cases where there was no possibility of resorting to savings, were catapulted into a state of poverty. To this must logically be added the cuts in resources made to local authorities that have inevitably affected the efficiency of structures and interventions aimed at personal services. As we know, economic crises are cyclical, like all the dramatic events that characterize the history of a country. If that is true, it is equally true that this crisis had been widely predicted. It was before everyone's eyes that the economic policies that characterized the 1990s, let's say the collapse of the Berlin Wall to date, were based on nothing! A creative finance based on nothing, a castle built on sand. A mistaken presumption, based on a logical-alchemical process (that with money you could make more money), accompanied by the political inability to impose rules on the markets and limits to the activity of the great finance, mainly based on speculative modalities, has produced inexorably the disaster that we are experiencing. The most serious thing is that little has been learned from all this. The policy measures put in place to combat this crisis focused mainly on structural aid to business banks and large financial institutions and, in addition, on measures to reduce costs, which had a major impact on citizens and families, reducing their purchasing power. Those who caused the crisis were rewarded and this prize was materially built on citizens' skin. All this is incredible; all this is absurd, as it is absurd that for almost two years our country's fortunes were literally commissioners: the political decisions of the Monti Government - it should be remembered - were subject to decisions made by European bureaucrats. It was a government - as has been said several times - not chosen by the people and representing only and only the interests of the strong powers; a government which, with its unsavory choices, has contributed only to the worsening of the situation, as easily demonstrated by the analysis of the main macroeconomic factors; a government which, as the North League, we have opposed since the first day of its establishment, with a sense of responsibility and never failing the word given to our voters. Critics and convinced of the opposition, we are aware that the current scenario, although not the desirable one, is however different. This Commission, in fact, does not like us and we are sure of its inevitable failure, but, unlike the previous one, we cannot fail to see that this is a political government; for this reason, with our motion, we want to commit it to taking political positions. When I come to the conclusion, let me tell you in this House - as I have already mentioned several times - who I am, where I come from, where my roots lie, what led me to enter into politics and to be an active part of this revolution of the system, in a federal perspective that embodies the movement of the North League, of which I honor to be a part. It is well known to all that I was a worker before sitting on Parliament's benches. Yes, I am honored every time the opportunity comes to remember that I have been and am a worker. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD and M5S Groups.]] I say "I am" and "I have been" because little has changed. Before I felt part of a process in which I helped to bring to light a product to be placed on the market with my work; man is born, in fact, aware that precisely thanks to his ingenuity and his sweat he can create and build what he needs for his survival; Today I am a worker of my movement and my work is focused on the need to make a contribution to the search for the common good. I felt the need to talk about my personal experience precisely in order to make it clear that never and never will it be possible to ensure a peaceful existence for future generations until politics regains its role and finally shakes the awe that makes it succub of the interests exercised by the so-called strong powers. They are to emphasize how it is correct and necessary to commit the Government to operate urgent interventions, aimed at providing measures to combat poverty also through the allocation of adequate economic resources to be allocated in particular to the territory, being in fact the Regions and the local authorities the first subjects called to intervene in those welfare policies that are concretized in aid to the population, plans to contrast to the emergency housing, direct aid to the families (especially the numerous ones), to the disabled, to the separated parents, in short to all those sections of the population particularly weak. Having said that, I think it is really vital to reiterate on this occasion, through the explicit formulation of a commitment, the need for the Government to promote, in all relevant fora, a renewed political-programmatic line based on the need to make a real change of the current system. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gualdani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard very carefully all my colleagues in this House talking about poverty and how to solve this problem. In fact, there is a system to solve the problem of poverty, and I address in particular to colleagues on the other side of our barricade: it is enough to give back to the Italians the Bank of Italy, which has been privatised with the Amato Government, thus determining a series of dramas within our Italy. Therefore, it is necessary to restore monetary sovereignty to the Italians, that is, to give back that difference between the real and commercial power of the currency to the Italian people. It would be enough therefore not to make great discussions, but to take a bill that has already been presented, to bring it into question in the Commissions, to vote it and to return to that Bank of Italy, which was once Italian, helped the children of the workers, gave the possibility to build popular houses and allowed small and medium-sized enterprises to operate, the possibility to return to a situation of normality. To conclude, Mr President, it would be enough to return the Bank of Italy to the Italians and remove from the bankers the difference between real power and commercial power of the currency, which out of 500 euros is equal to 499,80 euros. Small things would be enough to give back oxygen to Italy, to restart the economy of this country and to give serious answers in the interest of the community. In conclusion, this does not mean exiting the euro, but staying within the euro, but giving Italian citizens what is Italians. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u28	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the many economic data that unfortunately can be highlighted in the difficult present that our country is living, there is one that is all too often underestimated, but that should instead be the first to push us to reflect on the gravity of the situation today and to promote immediate and decisive interventions. I am referring to the dramatic decrease in food consumption, a negative trend which has lasted for five years and which has had, according to the Coordination of the associations for the protection of the environment and the rights of users and consumers (Codacons), a record contraction in the last year. Even if there were some Maria Antonietta among us who thought that we spend less because we have better and healthy eating habits, it must be said that in reality it is not so, because we eat less and worse, often junk food that we pay in health and health care, because if a person gets sick it must be cured and therefore there are other costs: of course, prevention is always better than cure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Stefani]] However, just remember the report released in October 2012 by Caritas to escape any doubt about it. Caritas highlights in fact that among the people who addressed its centers in 2011 there is a significant increase among categories that until recently were not so much interested by the risk of poverty: more and more Italians, more and more ex-middle class. Further evidence of what is going on could be reflected in our daily life, or at least in those who go shopping. You will have noticed the various promotions existing at commercial level and as in the first part of the month also supermarkets and large trade chains give you good shopping to take advantage of at the end of the month, when there are less economic possibilities because, to understand, the money is over. This is an economic crisis which, as has been argued on several occasions, is worsening precisely as a result of the collapse of that propensity to consume in the internal market, which in turn is strongly influenced by the uncertainty and precariousness of the labour market. Uncertainty and fear of the future are contracting consumer propensity, with dramatic effects on the real economy and employment. The work decreases and when there is often underpaid. The tax burden increases in order to maintain faith in Europe's agreements and poverty inevitably grows and affects the middle class more and more. In Italy, the post-Fordist worker, as, through a euphemism, we could call the flexible and precarious worker (what we find today from all sides), is faced with the needs of one's own existence without even the least social protection; this entails strong imbalances, especially in the management of one's present life and in the choices for the future. The psychology of scarcity, which results from this situation of crisis and precariousness, generates anxiety, envy, selfishness and social distress. Therefore, in Italy too, as already happens widely in Europe, the introduction of the minimum guaranteed income is urgent and necessary. It was nothing else, a bit cynically, because of the beneficial effects that such a measure would have immediately from the point of view of domestic consumption. It is well known that the propensity to consume is high when people with economic difficulties benefit from income increases, as the primary needs to be met are greater. On the other hand, it is necessary to point out that we do not see what better measure could be taken by Italy to achieve the objectives it has set itself. In the context of the Europe 2020 Strategy, it is said that the number of deprived people needs to be reduced: by that date, Italy is aiming to reduce this number by 2.2 million compared to today. Therefore, by 2020, the establishment of a guaranteed minimum income would probably give the opportunity to have fewer poor people. It will be said at this point that there is no money and that European constraints prevent us from intervening in this direction. In fact, everything depends on how you decide to intervene, and the costs must not become yet another alibi so that nothing changes, according to the usual theory of the Gattopardo, that we know more or less all for which everything changes because nothing changes. Precisely on the cost side, for example, the 2011 report on the results and costs of the French revenu de solidarity active (RSA) is interesting. In 2010, 1.8 million households were beneficiaries, some 4 million individuals, 64 percent of whom were wholly income-free, while 36 percent applied for supplementary aid. The total cost of financing the revenu de solidarity active in France in 2010 was €9.8 billion. It is a figure very similar to that which the Italian treasury currently spends on its social shock absorbers. According to UIL, in 2011, unemployment benefits, mobility and Cassa Integrazione cost overall EUR 18 billion, of which EUR 9 billion weighed on general taxation. This means that we have spent, for a welfare system that protects only one worker in two, the same amount that in France has guaranteed everyone a universalist and fairer protection program. (Brusio). If colleagues speak louder, we record them!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u30	Excuse me, Senator Bencini. Colleagues, it is impossible that the right-hand corner of the hemicycle has become the "Bar sport" in which there is constantly a bustle. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] From next time I will call back colleagues nominally, so that at home we know that the colleague is present, but also what he is doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I am not a great speaker: this is a Parliament and we need to talk, but sometimes we try to listen a little. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, European constraints on expenditure cannot be used as an alibi for another reason. It was the institutions of the European Community that, on several occasions, indicated to the Member States the need to introduce national programmes to combat poverty and social exclusion which included universalist means of protection from the very minimum guaranteed income. Europe, which we often remember because of the economic constraints that it imposes on us, adopted a resolution in the European Parliament on the minimum income in the fight against poverty and the promotion of an inclusive society in Europe, with a majority of 540 votes in favour and 30 against; this resolution, even more clearly than a precedent on the same issue in 2008, fully sanctioned the recognition of a right of citizens of the Union and of persons who reside permanently in it to an income which safeguards its social dignity. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union provides, in the third paragraph of Article 34, for the right of each person (European citizen or permanent resident in the territory of the Union) to social and housing assistance to ensure a dignified existence for all those who do not have sufficient resources. In implementing the Charter of Nice, minimum income is defined as a fundamental social right, intended to serve as an instrument to protect the dignity of the person and his/her ability to participate fully in social, cultural and political life.The lack of guarantees and rights not only creates new social hardship and poverty, but calls into question that plan of recognition of citizenship, of belonging to a democratic community. That is why the guaranteed minimum income must be recognised as a citizen's right, embedded in a wider context of new rights-duty and in the construction of a new imaginary society. Without a guaranteed minimum income, with the enormous economic disparities present today, with the strong polarization of incomes and the enormous precariousness, we risk having a democracy in half, a system that sees social disparities re-emerge strongly. The Europe that we like is Europe that recognizes these rights and acts accordingly with income support measures; a Europe in which Italy has not yet entered, despite having given birth to two people who already wrote these words in 1941: "Human solidarity with those who succeed in succumbing to the economic struggle must not be manifested with the charitable forms always demeaning and producing the same evils to whose consequences they seek to repair, but with a series of provisions that guarantee unconditionally to all, can or cannot work, a decent standard of living, without reducing the stimulus to work and saving. Thus no one will be forced by misery to accept vexation contracts. Those who spoke these words were Altiero Spinelli and Ernesto Rossi and, in their idea of Europe, as in our own, at least of our Movement, no one must remain behind. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Petraglia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u33	Mr President, in the historical moment we are living, of deep crisis and uncertainty for many families and workers in our country, it is essential and priority to give a strong response on our part to combat the poverty that affects new categories and social classes, without distinction. However, it is necessary to provide innovative and concrete answers to this issue, and to address the problem not only in financial terms but also and above all in cultural terms. Along with the new poverty, in fact, new factors of social risk are emerging: isolation, degradation and fear. Caritas, in its annual report, has shown that more and more are part of the new poor belonging to categories considered until recently middle class, people who managed to reach the end of the month dignifiedly. The crisis, therefore, affects not only citizens with lower incomes but also those with higher incomes. The figures, moreover, as my colleagues have explained, which I will not repeat, are alarming. However, we are also aware that this is an extremely difficult time for the state budget, where we cannot find new resources to address the challenges that the crisis is asking us to face. We are against the linear cuts, which also affect, and above all, this necessary and vital expenditure, that is, the social one, and therefore there is more than ever a need for a responsible attitude, which allows not only to cut the part of unproductive public expenditure but also to make the centres responsible. The state is in a position not to be able to afford to do everything it did before; we must therefore make the best use of the resources and possibilities available to us. Therefore, it is necessary to help and support those who already work and know well the situation of Italian families affected by the crisis; it is necessary to enhance all those positive experiences already experienced and active in the territories, recognizing the role of intermediate bodies, which carry out an important action in support of the weakest sections of society and are directly in contact with the dramatic situations that broad sectors of our society live daily. As Mother Teresa of Calcutta reminded us, "Many speak of the poor, but few speak with the poor." And we ourselves, those who talk to the poor, need to make the most of it, because we have to assume that being poor today does not mean the same thing everywhere. Therefore, the deep and accurate knowledge of every single local context and the closeness to the people who live and suffer in that context are the necessary prerequisites for any planning or intervention against poverty; this characteristic, proper of our social services and especially of the world of volunteering, sectors that today are in deep difficulty in meeting the continuous and new requests for help. It is a priority, therefore, by applying the principle of subsidiarity, to help and support our local authorities, the world of associationism and non-profit, acting in their support both from a legislative and fiscal point of view and facilitating their work in the daily aid in support of Italian citizens, because they arrive where the State fails or cannot reach. So, we said, recognize and value this positive and active aspect of our society. But sound and effective economic and political choices must be accompanied to this end, that they do not neglect the nature of the person or his dignity and be oriented towards social justice and solidarity. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u34	I inform you that the G1 agenda has been received, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, who are already in distribution. Senator D'Adda is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u35	Mr President, Madam Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment No 34 (text 2) places the emphasis on a particular issue, linked to the poverty we discussed this morning, which is the one of blameless morosity. In this sense, it has nothing to do with chronic assistantism, that we are all convinced must be fought to free resources. The blameless morosity is the result of a truly devastating crisis and it strikes in the first place those who lose their jobs. Look, if the loss of work really causes the affected families to turn their lives upside down to one hundred and eighty degrees, the loss of their homes, or the risk of this leads to psychological devastation. Today the Ministry tells us that every day we have at least 140 evictions: this means that at least half, if not more, of the 47,000 homeless people, are people who until recently had a roof over their heads. With regard to this problem, we are absolutely convinced that the municipalities are faced with insurmountable difficulties. Social services are unable to cope with the questions they are being asked. It is important to emphasise one thing seriously: it is not an ideological problem, nor is it just a last year problem. These 140 evictions a day are a phenomenon that over the course of three, four, five years has been produced, from the South to the North. So even the richest regions suffer, albeit in a smaller percentage, this problem. They are also carried out evictions by residential housing institutions. From this point of view we know that even the municipalities can no longer intervene, because those who are evicted from an institution of so-called housing can no longer apply, even, if not after five years. We need to do two things: the funds currently allocated are too small, so the proposal contained in motion 34 (text 2) for an increase is welcome. However, while we are all convinced that we are taking action on the structural elements that have been mentioned here - and that I do not want to repeat, otherwise I would take time - it is also essential to take action with certain measures that can be spent immediately on the territory. In this sense, we need the trade unions, the ANCI, to dialogue with us, representing all the municipalities, and also the Conference of the Regions, otherwise we will not be able to get out of this situation. I repeat here a fact that seems to me very fundamental: the exit from the crisis and the fight against poverty can only happen if we touch, point by point, the upheaval of the fiscal structure and intervention of our community. If we don't do this, we won't be able to get out. If we do not intervene immediately with some buffer measures, I believe that we will not be able to help the local authorities, who at the moment do not even find answers to the issues, such as social housing, which attack only a small part of the problem. Let us touch, then, the most important points, let us not be misled by ideology and give a positive response to the motions that, immediately, want to give breath to those who no longer have the opportunity to look at a roof, but only look at an open sky. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u36	The debate is closed. I inform you that in motion No 89, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators, an amendment was made to the third point of the device: the words "gold pensions" are replaced by the words "gold allowances." I call the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Senator Guerra, to whom I would ask you to give an opinion on the motions and the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to make a small premise, if I may, also to explain the opinion I will give both on the motions and on the agenda. It seems to me that today's debate has been very important, because it has put at the heart of Parliament's and the Government's attention the fundamental issue of impoverishment and the fight against poverty. The sentiment that has been expressed is fundamentally common, as is the common belief that the fight against poverty must involve the entire institutional chain, from the central government, to the regions and municipalities, as neighbouring entities, and the whole third sector. Each Group has of course made its own points and has also given indications on the different formulas to be used. There are, however, common elements which I would like to highlight. I will therefore ask for possible amendments to the motions tabled precisely to try to see if Parliament can find unity in expressing itself on this sensitive and important issue. One common element is that we must assume, even if we respect the constraints of public finance and with a passage that will require stages, structural intervention, that overcomes fragmentation and, sometimes, the occurrence of the measures in place. The second element is the urge not to take measures that are merely of a welfare nature, in favour of measures, in the general sense, of activation or inclusion (each one uses the term he prefers), which are aimed at both occupational inclusion and activation at work, and social inclusion. The demands that I will make to be able to give the positive opinion of the Government are aimed at recovering as wide a majority as possible on these that I believe I have understood - if I have well interpreted the interventions of all - being the elements common to the motions presented. Of course, I would like to stress from the outset that at this stage the Government cannot make commitments that make it dependent on the identification of a predefined amount of resources. I would like to take this opportunity to give you information on a subject which occurs in various motions tabled and which concerns the distribution of the national fund of social policies. This fund is in fact of next distribution and its block is linked to a normative forecast, that present in decree-law n. 174 of 2012, the so-called decree on the costs of politics, that binds the distribution of the funds erariali to the Regions to the fulfillment of the forecasts contained in it. Now, the regions by June 30 - and they are already doing so - must send the documentation from which it results the fulfillment of the forecasts indicated in the decree. It follows that, as soon as this process is completed, it will of course also be possible to distribute the resources of the national social policy fund. As you know, the joint decision on the allocation of the fund between national and regional quotas was taken in January this year. In making our proposals, and starting from the motions, as regards motion 34 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lepri and other senators, the Government asks for the following modifications that go in the indicated sense. As regards the device, in point 1, it is requested to replace the words: "assigned for 2013" with the words: "already in 2013". Therefore, in point (a) of the same point, it is requested to replace the words: "more EUR 300 million to be allocated to the following: " undertaking to try to ensure, in compliance with public finance constraints, an increase." With regard to point (b), it is requested to replace the words: "more than EUR 250 million" by the following: "by undertaking, in compliance with public finance constraints, to extend the programme." With reference, then, to point (c), it is asked to replace the words: "more than 50 million for" with the following: "by committing, in compliance with the constraints of public finance, to finance". With regard to point (d), it is requested to replace the words: "more than 100 million" by the following: "by undertaking, in compliance with public finance constraints, to seek to find resources from ""." As regards point 2 of the device, after the words: "to proceed" the request is to add the following: "to comply with the rules of law" The reference is clearly, as I said before, to the rules contained in Decree-Law No 174. No modification is requested in point 3 of the operative part, while in point 4 it refers at the same time to two financing profiles. In this respect, the general demand is that the rules which do not specifically concern the social issue should be removed from the motions. In particular, with regard to this profile - which is also found in another motion - I would like to remind you that in the tax delegation, which is taking up its path in Parliament, an important point is precisely the provision of harmonisation of taxes on the game, considering also the online game. However, beyond the important issue of harmonisation between the two types of taxation, considering the game as a whole as a possible source of financing, through an increase in the tax levy, does not at the moment have the positive opinion of the General Accounting of the State. In fact, it is happening that the tax on games has a strongly decreasing trend, so it is not plausible to believe that, from an increase in rates, there is an increase in revenue. In this situation, and because of the characteristics of that type of withdrawal, it is likely that there will be a decrease. The Government's request is therefore to delete point 4) of the device, then deepening the topic - beyond the assessments I have expressed at this time - in the path that the bill delegates will have on this subject. As regards motion No 84, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators, it is requested, in particular, in the first paragraph of the operative part, to replace the words: "on the one hand" with the words: "in compliance with budgetary constraints." It is also asked to remove the second part, from the words: "and, on the other hand, to the words: "economic crisis", which refers to very general issues, with respect to which the commitment to the Government is formulated in a way that we consider a little 'generic'. As regards the second paragraph of the operative part, I propose the following rewording: It considers that all necessary steps must be taken to implement fiscal federalism quickly, in order to ensure that measures are also taken to improve the conditions of the weak sections of the population, primarily large families, to combat unemployment and the emergency of housing. The third paragraph of the device would remain unchanged. As far as motion 86 is concerned, first signed by Senator Giuseppe Esposito, with a view not to binding too closely the policies that are being undertaken, while safeguarding all the inspirations that we have talked about earlier, I propose to leave points 1) and 2) of the device unchanged and to amend point 3) as follows: "to promote integration between social welfare and health policies, including by identifying integrated sources of funding". This is so that we do not create a whole common finalisation of social and health funding, since they have specific features which we believe should be safeguarded, but certainly also provide for integrated sources of funding. I propose that point 4 be reworded as follows: "to use card purchases as a means of combating poverty and social exclusion, involving local authorities and non-profit organisations in the law enforcement strategy." With regard to motion No 89, first signed by Senator Morra, the problem I raise will also be raised with reference to the agenda, and it is to not bind the Government to a specific diction, which we know is divisive, but to commit it forcefully to introduce, however much in degrees, measures to combat absolute poverty. Therefore, I propose to replace in point 1 of the operative part the words: "Minimum income guaranteed" with the words: "measures to combat poverty". In point 2, like what I asked for in motion 34 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator Lepri, I propose to add, after the words "to proceed" to the words: "in compliance with the norms of law", leaving the rest unchanged, because of course it is not possible to bypass Decree-Law No 174. As regards point 3 of the proposal, I propose that we keep the words: 'to find the necessary resources also through the fight against tax evasion', by deleting the remaining part, relating to gambling, for the reason that I have already said with reference to motion No 86. As regards point 4 of the proposal, which refers to a related (but different) theme compared to the one dealt with in the other motions, i.e. active employment policies, identifying specific categories of action, I propose that this topic be expunged and dealt with in the context of active labour policies. Among other things, as you know today, the Government will take steps exactly on this issue, which will therefore be the subject of debate and debate in Parliament, and therefore also in the Senate. With regard to the agenda G1, I would ask, exactly from the perspective of the findings carried out so far, for a rewording of the device in these terms: "to undertake, as a matter of urgency and decisively, a path that leads to the progressive introduction in our country of a structural measure to combat poverty", thus resuming an element that has been emphasized in various interventions, that is the fact that one of the limits of the intervention to fight poverty in our country is precisely the lack of structurality and its fragmentation and episodicity.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u38	I thank the Deputy Minister. We will then consult the presenters of the motions and agenda on the rewordings proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. Mr President, first of all, we accept the proposed reformulation of the G1 agenda suggested by the Government. As far as motions are concerned, I must say that the changes proposed by the Government at the motions substantially change the intentions of the presenters, especially those referred to in motion 34 (text 2), which in the end becomes a long list, more or less acceptable, of structural measures that should be put in place to combat poverty, but the particularity of the motion, which consisted in the provision of precise appropriations, appropriations that - as the Government has told us - are bound to the balances of public finances. We shall therefore abstain in the vote on motion No 34 (text 2). By the way, we had proposed to the presenters the possibility of a split vote, but we understand that our proposal will not be accepted. We will abstain, therefore, because we do not share some points then, especially with reference to bankruptcy measures such as the social card, whose experiments (made previously under other names) are not a memory to recall in the recent history of this country, without taking anything away from that great moment of social humiliation represented by these experiences. We, of course, believe that it is more appropriate to work towards new models of development where the fundamental cornerstones are equality and justice. We shall abstain in the vote on motion No 84 (text 2). We shall vote against motion No 86 (text 2) and in favour of motion No 89 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u42	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, Madam Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a Europe hit by the serious economic and financial crisis, it is necessary that anyone who wants to make time and energy available to the people in political activity should draw inspiration from the defence of identity values and commit himself to the protection of that guarantee system which is based on respect for the principles and goods that represent the driving force of a civil country. It must be remembered that the current economic crisis originates from the collapse of the subprime mortgages of summer 2007 with the consequent chain failure of some business banks that, without any regulation and also with the official coverage of the private certification agencies, operated through fraudulent mechanisms of financial speculation. Among the main causes of the current crisis is the failure of an economic and political model, in which the institutions abdicated their role as guarantors of the rules in power exercised by finance and large industry. It is a cancer widespread in all sectors, but it sees the concentration of its metastases precisely in those speculative operations carried out by the financial intermediation agencies. The so much praised self-regulation of the market has proved totally bankrupt. The financial and monetary system, increasingly deregulated and removed from the controls in charge, undermined all forms of governance, thus giving rise to a series of financial bubbles and destroying industrial, commercial and agricultural productive sectors. This crisis scenario has also been accompanied by a clear intensification of the bad habits of business politicians, prone to corruption and collusion, feeding public opinion a disaffection towards politics. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This has led to a widespread feeling of distrust of institutions, legislators and administrators in many - too many, I would say - citizens. This is worrying. They are and are convinced, in fact, that there is no other way out of this economic and value crisis, than to give back to politics its central role: a policy understood as a public space in which human action is manifested, indispensable from ethics. On the contrary, we are witnessing a delegitimization of politics. Politics is bad and, as such, must be eradicated. The thought of the anti-politics that is spreading rapidly, fed by art by an incorrect communication that has sold its intellectual honesty to the power of turn, by the strategy of terror spread by technicians at the service of the great finance and by the irresponsible management of the common thing entrusted to circus politicians, is producing irreparable damage. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] According, in fact, to the data compiled and published by the main scientific institutes, by the trade associations and consumers, in our country drastically reduces consumption, even those related to food, as has been shown, while exponentially increases the number of unemployed, the unemployed and the Cassaintegrati, families in over-indebtedness and in housing emergency, the elderly in condition of serious poverty, as well as people with disabilities without adequate assistance. In order to respond to this, it is obvious that extraordinary interventions are needed in the short term, aimed at increasing the resources to be allocated to policies aimed at combating the spread of poverty experienced by many citizens and families. It is also important to provide for measures to support the economic policies of local authorities, which have the direct responsibility of that territorial welfare that is presented as before, real and concrete structure to develop a network of concrete aid to the population. The recent disappointing experience of the draft Constitution of a united Europe should serve as a warning to give as an axiomatic the assumption that politics cannot be replaced. The miserable failure to create a united Europe, which is based exclusively on economic criteria, is now clear. A Europe with a single currency even before it has achieved sufficient cultural, political and social homogeneity. A monster who, as in the myth of Kronos, fed on his own children. This Europe, ideologically shaped by the power of the great finance and private of any historical and cultural reference, has generated a widespread critical feeling towards itself, so much so that whenever it has been possible to submit to referendum the ratification of a Community treaty, the outcome has been punctually negative. But in order to do all this it is necessary courageously to admit the failure of the present system and to work quickly to provide this country with a way out. It is necessary, in fact, that immediate steps be taken to implement all the requirements necessary for the application of what is defined in the reform on fiscal federalism. In fact, it is unacceptable that the introduction of fiscal federalism, although it represents an epochal change that finally marks a clear reversal of the course with regard to social policies, should in fact undergo an inexplicable slowdown in its effective application. This reform intervenes in the development of the financial relations between the State, the Regions and local authorities, modifying in depth the model that has so far governed the financing of the territorial authorities, in order to improve the functioning of the administrations, the quality of expenditure and the balance of public finances. An innovative system, in which, after the transfers, the financial resources derive from own taxes and revenue, from shares in the revenue of state taxes and from the equalization fund for territories with less tax capacity. The 2009 delegation law No 42 provides for the gradual transition from financing based on the criterion of historical expenditure to that, necessary and fundamental, determined in relation to the so-called standard needs. The shift from historical expenditure to standard cost is ultimately aimed at directing the policy of municipal administrations towards a new meritorious logic, which avoids the known inefficiencies of the past and introduces new managerial logics of public resource management. It is a cultural revolution that will require, also from the municipal authorities, a considerable effort to change the traditional administrative formulas, but that certainly in the medium to long period will result in an overall improvement of the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the services intended for the person. It is clear that, through this approach, we can promote a radical change of the local government and, therefore, of the entire country. An articulated and progressive path that will be completed with the approval of a comprehensive reform that redefines the fundamental functions of the local authorities, in order to simplify, reduce costs and allow greater control by the citizens, establishing, through the definition of the criteria of horizontal and vertical subsidiarity, the modalities by which the State can transfer the additional administrative functions. A reform that will inevitably lead to substantial savings in spending on public machinery and an overall simplification of administrative structures and that will allow citizens to feel really close to their administrators. This new regional and local autonomy will be guided on the basis of the principles of coordination which are listed in the delegation law. Among these, that of the family favor: "identification of instruments suitable to facilitate the full implementation of Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution, with regard to the rights and training of the family and the fulfilment of the related tasks." These are highly innovative principles which connote this reform in the direction of greater recognition of family burdens and therefore in the direction of greater implementation of the family favor that directs our constitutional dictation. In order to give a decisive sign of change, it is necessary first of all that society takes back those principles and values inherent in the religious, ethical and cultural tradition of our country. Reclaiming these founding values of our society means in the first place reaffirming the strength inherent in the institution of the family. For us, the need to defend the family, not in words, but in clear political acts and choices, is essential. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is necessary to guarantee the right of every person to form a family or to be included in a family community, to support the right of families to the free performance of their social functions, to recognize the very high social and personal importance of motherhood and fatherhood, to support in a more appropriate way the co-responsibility of parents in the care and education of children, to promote and enhance the family as a primary social structure of fundamental public interest, to implement the conditions necessary for the presence of several generations within the same family, promoting the permanence of the elderly in the family. The protection of the family institution and the valorisation of the political mission are the axioms from which to re-found the identity and cultural feeling of our people and finally give life to a renewed European Union: the Europe of the peoples. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is for all these reasons that the Parliamentary Group of the North League and Autonomy will vote in favour of this motion with the amendments that have been proposed, unfortunately in a Chamber at the limit of the legal number, although we are discussing such an important and so delicate subject, on which everyone, in words, is very good at demonstrating their participation, while in fact we find a total absence in the Chamber. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u45	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Mrs Vice-Minister, the issue we are debating today, which concerns policies to combat poverty, has given us the opportunity to discuss extremely hot issues that involve the social reality not only in Italy, where fragility and vulnerability are part of the daily diary. More than giving a declination, in a vocabulary of therapies, in terms of contrast to poverty, it is much more dear to me at this time to recall the fundamentals, the principles of reference that can represent to us all the compass with which to face the marouses of an extremely pervasive and intrusive crisis, which makes possible, even for social realities that until a few months ago could enjoy a state of partial well-being, to find themselves in a situation of considerable discomfort. If we were to ask ourselves what is the foundation of social life, we would say that it is certainly that of the dignity of the human person. This dignity is, on the one hand, the foundation of social and therefore of politicians, but on the other it is also the objective that we must pursue. We must not go very far to regain the path that has been drawn for a long time, whose principles and values of reference on our part can be combined in everyday life, but also in the development of political action. These words are sociality and subsidiarity, freedom and responsibility. On one particular point I would like to focus, because I believe that the theme of subsidiarity represents the foundation, leitmotiv, the guiding thread not only of the interventions that preceded me, but certainly of what represents the DNA of Civic Choice for Italy. What is the fundamental law of the principle of subsidiarity? It has a great value of ethics, in the sense that each one is himself through the other, through the achievement of the welfare of the other, of well-being in the psychophysical, social and economic sense. This also means that the welfare of the other becomes my personal well-being. This means that the declination of politics in this area cannot be that of intersubjectivity, of being simply with the other; the true meaning is that of reciprocity, that is to say of being for the other. Political life has thus declined on these issues, in the context of combating poverty, that we can only talk about subsidiarity, which is no longer horizontal or vertical: I think it is good to lay down subsidiarity also as a circular, because this dimension makes cooperation between public administration, private social and business possible. In other words, it is necessary for the three actors involved to be able to achieve subsidiarity to complement each other, integrating their management action, but even more so at the design level. If we consider the etymology of the word "subsidiarity," we see that it comes from Latin and means "helping." This aid dimension, in a sense of circular subsidiarity, is not transformed into the degenerative aspect of assistanceism, but rather I believe that it acquires the value of great social ethics that is social protagonism. I think that this must be the real meaning of an intervention that gives the opportunity to support people in situations of particular fragility and vulnerability, so that they can reappear to active social participation. We have, therefore, introduced not only the terms "dignity" and "subsidiarity" to the basis of the fight against poverty, but also those, quite significant, of "fragility" and "vulnerability" that are considered to be synonyms, even if in reality they are not. The fragility that is inscribed in human nature - the philosopher would say - is of ontological order, is constitutive of human essence. If, to this dimension of fragility, which is recognized and inherent in human nature, we also add socially induced fragility, therefore at the economic level of social policy, a very serious vulnus is caused not only to the person as such and to society, but - let me be told - also to the political and democratic community, as these people are no longer able to participate actively and proactively, as actors and not to be seen, in the same political life. It seems to me, then, that the fight against poverty, in addition to having an exquisitely socio-economic value, also goes into political issues and democratic order. This I do not think can be implied, because only in this way can we regain another ancient term, which we have confused with the concepts of total, private and public: it is the common good, which is undoubtedly metaphorically understood as the product of a multiplication whose factors represent the good of individuals or groups. It is sufficient to modify one of the factors and the common good no longer exists, but it will translate in a reductive way into the private good, the total good or the public good, in which there is no longer the objective individuality of being a person, there is no longer the intrinsic dignity of the citizen, but it expires all in the anomy of a utilitarian result on an individual or massive level, annomic at a social level. That is why subsidiarity, sociality and dignity can only find their practical implementation in the dimension of the common good. It is therefore clear, as has been well said by some of my fellow Members on the problems under discussion, that it is most appropriate to adopt policies that would also encourage the role of the third sector in the co-design of new local initiatives against poverty, using the network of associationism to bring marginalised people closer together, who would otherwise still not be achieved by economic and social integration measures, and to be able to offer greater quality and capillacy of services. Both institutional services at territorial level and non-profit organisations should be encouraged. Another aspect that I would like to stress is that up to now the family has represented the most important shock absorber of social distress, without receiving adequate support. We must therefore start from the family as the subject of interventions, as also recalled by the Constitution: the promotion of serious family policies is the instrument that can best accompany actions aimed at removing the causes of poverty and social exclusion in Italy. In parallel, there is a need to implement a welfare system that ensures unitary levels of performance throughout the national territory, without disparities, inequalities and differences. However, I express on behalf of the Civic Choice Group for Italy the full sharing of the motions presented, according to the corrections or, more correctly, the suggestions indicated by Deputy Minister Guerra. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senators Favero, Maturani and Martini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u48	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech by presenting our orientation. We, as a 5 Star Movement Group, will abstain from voting on motions 1-00034, 1-00084 and 1-00086, while we will vote in favour of motion 1-00089 (text 2), which we presented, which accepts all the changes indicated by the Deputy Minister War, except for the first, for a problem of an exquisitely political nature. I would like to reiterate that concept. The Deputy Minister of War began by claiming that in the first point of the device was contained - in his opinion - a divisive notion. Well, we think that politics must be clear, and so we would like clarity, and perhaps even listening, even if this may be of interest to a few people. In fact, including and confronting the problems of citizenship may be of interest to some but not to all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The idea that we are dependent on the Italian people, who elected us to deal with the problems with which workers, workers, citizens, farmers, traders, officials and middle classes are confronted every day, is perhaps not made up of those who believe that they have a guarantee for the right of birth. As it happens, I do not know why, I always turn to my left, where I think the level of listening, attention and participation is extraordinarily high. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A divisive notion is something that clearly cannot associate, cannot unite. What is this something that, according to Deputy Minister Guerra, is able to divide? It is a notion on which Rodotà himself - a name that many may be related to - has engaged many of his latest studies. Rodotà presented his reflection on the right of existence as the past equivalent of the right to guaranteed minimum income, the right to citizenship or, in any case, the right to dignity, which would allow - as Senator Romano said last - every human being to claim at all round his full participation in a context that together enhances the self both on an individual level and above all on a social level. In fact, through this recognition the group takes charge of the individuality. Senator Bencini has just concluded her speech by taking up a slogan that I like to repeat in this House: no one must remain behind. Just today there has been news of the fact that in Cagliari another person, another fellow citizen of ours has decided to end it, because Italy today condemns many of its citizens, not to membership, not to inclusion, but to despair. In order, therefore, to allow everyone not to be marginalized, not to be isolated or forgotten, so that no one is left behind, there must be the will, especially on the part of those who are ahead (and perhaps we fall into the category of privileged because in Italy, over the last decades, politics has achieved for itself privileges to which it is not willing to derogate, since when you have a privilege you hardly give it up), today we are called to work that solidarity effort whereby those who have remained behind - and in Italy there are many - can understand that those who are ahead are stopping. Stiglitz and Krugman were mentioned earlier, which in many of their studies (not only the most recent ones) have shown that in pathologically ill societies there is an overall figure for which the famous GDP would decrease and at the same time the social, economic and cultural distances between those above and those below would widen. We have an idea of community that is completely different and if this leads us to division (I would like the Government to become aware of it), division will be, because we are for an idea of community in which everyone can be included and not in words, but in fact. Precisely in fact we insist that in these classrooms, since we are also working in that sense in the Chamber, we can finally recognize the equal right of those who (and I address the Senator of the League who recalled her past as a worker), even if they do not have an important social extraction, can feel at all round, in full right, part of a population that bases its being together on inclusion, on the will for dialogue and on the ability to listen. However, what is happening at this time, even at these last stages of the debate, shows that perhaps not everyone is capable of listening, because they do not want it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u51	SACCONI (PDL). Mr President, Madam Representative of the Government, when the Berlusconi Government started its activities and warned of the approaching of that perfect storm that would then generate the long time of crisis in which we are still immersed, it considered it appropriate to think a lot about our social model. The constraints of public finance that were necessarily to be assumed could have represented an extraordinary opportunity to rethink our model of protection and social security according to its greater sustainability, not only from the financial point of view, but even more from the point of view of the effective capacity of inclusion that it must guarantee. There was then that broad consultation, with a method borrowed from the European Union: first a Green Paper, finally the drawing up of a White Paper entitled "Good life in active society" (The Good Life in Active Society), the result of the collaboration of about 1,000 people, among them 100 representative organisations of various kinds, from ethical associations to organized interests. I think it can be said that that white paper, as it was then recorded in the parliamentary debate that accompanied it, was the expression not of a contingent parliamentary majority, but of widely shared convictions, because the definition of our social model cannot but be placed in the same material Constitution that supports the same formal Constitution. That broad sharing concerned, above all, three criteria, according to which an intense reorganization of the scattered functions of protection and social security was carried out. The three criteria identified were prevention, appropriateness and subsidiarity; the latter criterion was then declined - if we wish - in the two further paradigms of relationality, on the one hand, and proximity, on the other. At the basis of everything we set - or proposed - not rhetorically the centrality of the person and not of the individual, because in our culture, in the culture of our tradition, we prefer to speak in person, as an entity naturally evoked to the relationship with others. The centrality of the person induces precisely those three parameters and to remove those vices of self-referentiality and assistanceism insisted, which have frequently characterized our social model. "Prevention" also means ensuring that the person, throughout and at every stage of his life, can be placed in a position to provide for his self-sufficiency, so that conditions of need or dependence are not determined at the next stage. "Approperty" means integrating functions: as has often happened, in fact, when inappropriate, the answer to need is also financially unsustainable. For this reason, in our motion, we have proposed an integration of the resources devoted to social, health and welfare policies, and we have come to imagine a single national fund, in which also central resources, such as those dedicated to the accompanying allowance, can be flown so that the management of these resources is as integrated as possible according to the appropriateness and on the other hand as close as possible. Moreover, the distribution of these resources - as previously recalled very appropriately my colleague Senator Marco Marin - must be carried out not according to criteria of historical expenditure, which incorporate all the inefficiencies that we have verified in many territories, but according to those criteria that fiscal federalism has drawn - the standard requirements for the municipalities and the standard costs for our social and health services in the territories - that allow equal opportunities for each of the many places in which the institutional functions are articulated and social capacities are organized. The case of poverty and absolute poverty is extraordinarily emblematic in this regard. We have talked about absolute poverty: let us not confuse it with the wider dimension of relative poverty, which is a useful indicator as regards the scissors that divide our society and which serves to carry out policies of rebalancing from this point of view. Absolute poverty interests us because it represents that area of extreme need towards which we must concentrate our energies, to prevent it and to absorb it when it is determined. Absolute poverty is not identified by Rome, through a threshold of income, but is identified in close proximity, through a complex of indicators above all of relational character - in fact, loneliness is often the true and fundamental source of absolute poverty and extreme discomfort - and is absorbed in terms of proximity. This proximity is not only that of the local authority, which must be integrated as closely as possible with other local authorities, because the municipal micro-dimension also evokes the need for integration and rationalization; but above all, the local authority must be a source of social vitality. The fundamental way by which to absorb a discomfort, which finds its first reason in solitude, must be to put in a position to make communities those many attitudes, which are determined in our many local dimensions and in the many places that characterize this nation. That kind of attitude must therefore be equipped with suitable tools. From here came the idea of the social card, of an instrument that has two characteristics: on the one hand, that of being able to attract the gift, that is, to be fed by that gift that must be brought back from the private dimension in the public dimension, because the gift is already an important tool in itself to realize social capital, to build communities, to absorb the phenomena of social distress; on the other hand, the social card evokes instruments of financial support, but also of conveying services, which must in turn be organized, managed, accompanied to the owner of the need by our community forms. The social card, that is, is not the way to give coldly a good or financial support, but it is the way in which our social organizations approach the person in need and accompany him to a condition of self-sufficiency. It is the experience of the food bank, of the pharmaceutical bank; it is the endless experiences of the generous works that have marked this nation to show us the way through which to isolate and absorb the conditions of need. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]] For this reason, Mr President, Madam Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we must proceed along that road, that we must broaden the experience, which has been suggested above all for the major cities, in which those phenomena of loneliness are most produced. In conclusion, I just want to say to those who occasionally talk about the Nordic model that that model is very far from our tradition and our culture, because it is made of isolated individuals who are directly confronted with an anonymous state, generous also in the provision of the subsidy, but far and cold, algid compared to their loneliness. [[Applause from Senator Bitonci]] We want to remain anchored to our tradition, to our experiences, to those experiences of the generous works that have built it, that have made a nation before even a state. We want to remain tied to that tradition that always leads us to make community, and the first community is the family. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u54	Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, Deputy Minister Guerra, Senator colleagues and fellow senators, this morning a very important debate took place, which has certainly meant our awareness of the representatives of the citizens within this institution, the serious drama that goes through our country and the serious level of poverty that it represents. It was a rich debate, with different accents and points of view, but fundamental. We know that the heavy economic crisis in which we find ourselves, which has seen people and families plunge into poverty, also hitting the middle class, is likely to worsen, producing not only a great material discomfort but also distrust and lack of hope in the future. I believe that this is a condition now studied and understood, which obliges us immediately to find concrete solutions. In motion 34 (text 2) of which Senator Lepri is the first signatory, the questions of greater suffering and also the solutions are indicated. We appreciate the assessments and considerations that Deputy Minister Guerra has indicated regarding this motion, and it is important to note that on this issue there is a commitment of the Government for 2013. The concrete solutions and responses to people in poverty must not only be the answers to their needs: what is needed are interventions that, when they welcome, understand and intervene on the needs of citizens in poverty, which also means marginalization and loneliness, and resolve the problems represented by the country. Allow me to make a point, which has also been made by many of my colleagues and many of my colleagues: the condition of poverty and marginalization, the risk of material poverty in which so many individuals and families are found, also mean, as I said before, a sense of distrust towards the future. The condition of depression is the most dramatic element, which not only results in so many situations that unfortunately pain daily the condition of our country, but also involves a lack of confidence in the future, which also means a further and progressive decrease in consumption. Let us think of the reduction in food consumption, which has already been mentioned in this House and which I am not going back to. Statistics, reports from ISTAT and Caritas tell us how the attendance of social canteens sees more and more the presence of citizens and towns that, until recently, we could consider belonging to the so-called media class, in a so-called normal condition. Poverty is a condition that, in our country, affects sections of the population that until a few years ago lived in a situation of so-called normality. But the loss of the job, a crippling illness that affects a member of the family, the constant loss of the dwelling (a drama of our country), the evictions for an unblemished morosity highlight in the daily chronicles of our country situations of great drama. All this has not found in recent years a concrete and incisive response, with the activation of services that could be at least a relief for the hardships of families by the local authorities, burdened, as we know, by dramatic cuts on the Social Policy Fund, by the famous linear cuts, by many issues that have progressively forced the administrations to cut essential services of support and accompaniment to the families. These are, therefore, interventions on essential services, which should be an element of prevention of falling into a state of poverty and which, on the other hand, have suffered the most dramatic cuts. It is important, therefore, the reassurance of the Deputy Minister that the Government will commit itself in 2013 so that the increase of the funds that are needed in this sector there will be the maximum attention. Otherwise, not only will we not help the people who are in a state of great poverty today, but we will even aggravate this situation. It is clear - and it has been repeated by many in this House - that it is not just an economic issue, but at the moment the economic issue seems essential. It is clear that, at a time when resources are falling, it is necessary to redesign in a different way some types of intervention. At this moment in our country there are people who have traditionally contributed over the years to create a model of social assistance and health care, of enlightened welfare, and who must be involved in the commitment to renew the project of social service and the network of services of our territory. It has been repeated by many: we must resume a real, in-depth, punctual conversation with the world of social cooperation, of associationism, of volunteering, who are absolutely aware of the dramatic economic condition that our country lives. Those are the subjects who have collaborated with public services and local authorities, who in the 1980s designed with the public the quality and innovation of social policies in our country. I believe that we must restore the dignity of this relationship, we must enhance and recall to the protagonists of the design the public operators who work in the fields of social and health services, because they are the wealth, they are the legs that make walk what is planned and planned in the institutions. However, we must bear in mind that the scarcity of resources available in the face of the great tragedy of poverty requires a fundamental commitment. I would like to decline this commitment with a sentence, which, in my opinion, does not oblige me to go further in deepening the need for a real and concrete commitment of the institutions, but gives the sense of the thought that I want to represent. It is a phrase of Don Milani, who claims that making equal parts between equals is justice, making equal parts between unequals is sum of injustice. I believe that we must start from this principle at the moment. With these reasons, I declare the vote in favour of motion 34 (text 2). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u55	I would ask Senator De Petris if he confirms the acceptance, already expressed in the explanation of vote, of the requests for amendment of the agenda G1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u56	Yes, Mr President, we welcome the proposals for amendments made by the Deputy Minister on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u59	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are asking, if possible, for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, on the G1 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u60	Excuse me, Senator Santangelo, since this is an agenda for all motions, we will vote on the motions first and then vote on the agenda. I shall bear in mind your request for the next vote. Senator Lepri, do you accept the proposal for the rewording of motion 34 (text 2), tabled by the representative of the Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u61	Mr President, I welcome the Government's proposal for rewording with reference to point 1 of the operative part, stressing the importance of the measures envisaged as early as 2013. We also accept the proposed amendment concerning the cancellation of the amounts referred to in point (1) of the operative part, taking note of the desirability of a commitment to try to ensure compliance with public finance constraints. Similarly, we accept the request for the deletion of point 4) of the device, not without pointing out that, in our opinion, the tightening of gambling taxes is a particularly important profile. We will find, therefore, other ways and places to try to explore and deepen the issue. In conclusion, I would like to say to the Deputy Minister that, by accepting his suggestions, we also want to represent them - I also believe on behalf of the other political forces who will vote in favour of motion 34 (text 3) as well as we will do on their motions - our expectation that this motion will be strongly considered by the Government and, in this sense, we believe that we have made an important contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u62	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 34 (text 3). Senator Santangelo, do you confirm your request for electronic voting? SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 34 (text 3), tabled by Senator Lepri and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 34 (text 2), 84, 86 and 89 (president). I would ask the presenters of motion No 84 whether they intend to accept the rewording proposal put forward by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u63	Mr President, we accept the request for reformulation, but we insist that the government still takes into account the part that has been exploded, concerning the need to review the regulation of markets that are not so averted from social problems. I think we're gonna have to take care of it, just as we think the government should. In any case, we accept the rewording of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u64	In this case it is Parliament that gives an indication to the Government and not vice versa. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 84 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 84 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 34 (text 2), 84, 86 and 89 (president). Senator Esposito Giuseppe, do you agree with the proposal for the rewording of motion 86 made by the representative of the Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u65	Yes, Mr. President. We agree with the rewording of points 3) and 4) of the device, as proposed by the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u66	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 86 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 86 (text 2), tabled by Senator Esposito Giuseppe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 34 (text 2), 84, 86 and 89 (president). Since Senator Morra has accepted the requests for reformulation from the representative of the Government, but not on point 1) of the device, I ask the presenters of motion 89 (text 2) what they intend to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u67	Mr President, I confirm what Senator Morra said. We accept the Government's proposals only for points 2) and 3) of the device, but not the replacement, in point 1), of the words "minimum guaranteed income." We do not intend to change that part.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u68	I therefore suggest that you propose a split vote, otherwise we do not get out of it. That is all right. We are asking for a split vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Otherwise, I wouldn't know how to interpret your request. We therefore vote first on point 1) of the original text, with the contrary opinion of the representative of the Government, and then on the remaining part in the amended text. I would ask whether there is any opposition to the request for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u71	EXPOSED Joseph (PdL). Mr President, we are opposed to the split vote. We believe that the motion should be voted on in its entirety. Otherwise there are some premises that can be shared and others not and the same applies to the different parts of the device. I therefore request that the motion be voted on in its entirety. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u72	At this point, since there has been an objection, we must check the House's statement in the face of this request. I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on motion No 89 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimi. It's not approved. I would therefore ask the authors of motion No 89 (text 2) if they confirm the retention of point 1) of the device. CRIMI (M5S). Yes, we confirm that. Perhaps it would be appropriate for the government to speak again on the basis of the rewording that we have proposed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's what I was going to ask the Deputy Minister. The authors of motion No 89 (text 2) would like to keep point 1) of the device in the original text. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u73	Mr President, more than maintaining point 1 in itself is precisely the reason why this retention was tabled, which wished to highlight a division of views, which does not allow me to accept the request. So I confirm the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u74	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 89 (text 3). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote by simultaneous ballot, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on motion No 89 (text 3), tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 34 (text 2), 84, 86 and 89
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u75	I put to the vote the agenda G1 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u78	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that, during the vote on motion 34 (text 3), I wrongly pressed the wrong button in the electronic mechanism. Therefore, I am abstaining rather than voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u81	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, as Mr Santangelo has requested, on the vote on motion No 34 (text 3) I would also like to change my vote in one abstention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you whether this request extends to the whole Group. BUCCARELLA (M5S). The Group as a whole amends the vote in one abstention.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u84	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to make it clear that on Amendment No 84 (text 2) I wanted to abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u85	The Presidency takes note of this and will remain in the minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u86	The next item is the vote on the election of the actual and alternate members of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This vote will take place, pursuant to Rule 25 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, by secret ballot on the following lists of candidates formed upon the appointment of the parliamentary groups. Actual members, senators: Bertuzzi, Chiti, Corsini, Catalfo, Santangelo, Bernini, Giro, Crosio and Gambaro; Alternate members, senators: Puppato, Lucherini, Verducci, De Pietro, Orellana, Amoruso, Fazzone, Munerato and Cervellini. The senators in favour of the proposed lists will vote yes. The opposing senators will vote no. Senators who intend to abstain will act accordingly. I declare the vote open by secret ballot, by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). They are therefore elected, as effective members, Senators Bertuzzi, Chiti, Corsini, Catalfo, Santangelo, Bernini, Giro, Crosio and Gambaro and, as alternate members, Senators Puppato, Lucherini, Verducci, De Pietro, Orellana, Amoruso, Fazzone, Munerato and Cervellini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u87	We should now move on to the debate on motions for resolutions on oil and gas research in the Adriatic Sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u90	EXPOSED Joseph (PdL). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. The Environment Commission has already scheduled the examination of an assigned deal on oil and gas research in the Mediterranean. For this reason, I would ask you and the House to postpone the debate on motions for resolutions on oil and gas research in the Adriatic Sea, scheduled for today's sitting, until the end of the 13th Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to examine whether there is convergence on the proposal made by Senator Esposito Giuseppe.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u94	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I rise to announce that the Democratic Party Group supports the proposal made by Senator Esposito Giuseppe.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u97	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I am determined to call for the incardination of the debate on motions for resolutions on oil and gas research in the Adriatic Sea. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, if there is no unanimity in relation to the proposal made by Senator Esposito, I must consider it as a suspensive issue. Therefore, if a Group representative wishes to do so, he may speak for ten minutes in order to explain his position. Do you think you can use it, Senator Castaldi? CASTALDI (M5S). Of course, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CASTALDI (M5S). (Show a cup of coffee). Mr President, allow me to drink this coffee. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A sip extends your life. CASTALDI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. If I wanted to pay for this coffee as an Abruzzo citizen with the royalties we take, derived from the very bad oil we have in the Adriatic seabeds, I could drink one every two years. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli]] There is a danger of pollution in the Mediterranean, resulting from related activities of research and cultivation of hydrocarbons. The risk of such activities is not negligible and cannot be underestimated and postponed, as it carries with it the enormous threat to the heritage made up of marine reserves, valuable coasts with a high touristic vocation, fishing and culture of the environment. Just over two months after the event in Pescara, where 40,000 people paraded to say no to "Ombrina" and not to the transformation of Abruzzo... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, I invite you to listen, also because I believe that a vote will soon have to take place (so don't leave the Chamber). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] CASTALDI (M5S). Let me go back a little bit, because it's important. It has passed little more than two months from an event in Pescara in which 40,000 people have paraded to say no to the project "Ombrina Mare" and not to the transformation of Abruzzo, known to all as Green Region, in mining district. Both the associations and the Green Committees and the citizens are more than ever united to reaffirm the reasons for their firm and convinced no to drilling, while they say yes to more reasonable choices and alternatives. I believe that today the Senate, finally meeting requests from the territory, citizens and associations, but also meeting the requests of the honourable senators of the PdL (Dalì and others, Marinello and others), as well as of the honourable senators of the PdP less she (Pezzopane and others, Tomaselli and others), who have presented respectively the draft laws no. It will facilitate, with a vote in favour of this motion, the first step towards rapprochement between institutions and the real needs of citizens. The vote in favour of motion n. 39 is necessary in order to remedy the modifications made by decree-law n. 83 of 2012 to article 6, paragraph 17 of Legislative Decree n. 152 of 2006, bearing the so-called environmental code, which modifications allow the activity of research, prospecting and cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea; return the effectiveness to the authorized titles issued before August 2010; save retroactively the procedures before August 2010, including the cultivation project of the deposit "Ombrina Mare." I repeat: they save him. All these changes to the environmental code have never been discussed by Parliament, but they are the result of the question of trust posed by the previous Government within Decree-Law No 83 of 2012, which has been so approved, removing, as always, Parliament from the possibility of amending it. It is not even appropriate to recall the embarrassing letter of thanks sent by Medoilgas Italia SpA to Minister Clini. It is worth pointing out today that the marine area in which the project "Ombrina Mare" is developed is only 6 kilometers (not miles, but kilometers) from the National Park of Costa Teatina, as arranged by the President of the Republic on proposal of the Ministry of the environment, in agreement with the Abruzzo Region concerned. It must be emphasized that the territory of the theatrical coast and, in general, that of the whole Abruzzo are characterized by the presence of three national parks and one regional, as well as a coastal area very evocative and appreciated. These territorial characteristics have allowed a strong development of tourism, crafts, fishing, agri-food and all the activities induced and connected. The development of the project "Ombrina Mare 2" would certainly compromise the realization of an integrated regional system "sea-mountain" of sustainable economic and social development, on which the Abruzzo Region, the local authorities, the territorial communities, the productive realities, the associations of the citizens are strongly oriented, which is why, in the evaluation of environmental impact have been presented numerous observations and objections also from the public administrations, as well as from the territorial realities carrying interests. It cannot be said that, according to the current legislation, the technical commission of environmental impact assessment had expressed negative opinion on the project in question and that, from the date of notice of rejection of the EIA, communicated to Medoilgas Italia SpA on the project "Ombrina Mare 2," the Ministry has never - I repeat never - adopted the refusal order, despite there was no formal impediment. The unjustified non-adoption of the EIA rejection measure allowed the same EIA procedure to be reopened and, in application of the new rules, the Technical Audit Committee magically gave a positive opinion on the project. However, it is erroneous to believe that we can resolve the questions by shortening the times and the process or by convincing the people to abandon the local oppositions, born from simple but justified fears, or even from the lack of dialogue with the administrations. Access to information on energy and the environment is probably the very point on which Italy has always lacked strategy and vision. We are the country where fracking has been drilled for decades and nobody knows it; where pollution dies in Taranto but the publication of scientific data that demonstrate it is delayed. We are the country where, to know who are the political characters favorable to oil or coal requires a campaign of Greenpeace. We persevere in error without realizing the potential expressed by our country in the development of the green and white economy, which cross and innovate even the most mature sectors of our economy. Too often we forget some instruments that could actually change the national energy system, creating, among other things, wealth and employment for small and medium-sized enterprises and for families without favouring the interests of very few to the detriment of all others. With these assumptions planning the future is impossible. Italy, in practice, renounces to do so. Well, to date, the parliamentarians of every group, including some current members of the Government, such as the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council, Senator Giovanni Legnini, signatory together with others of a bill on this subject, have given rise to numerous legislative initiatives regarding the changes to be made to Article 35 of Decree No 83 of June 2012, initiatives all times to cancel, limit or, at least, modify its effects. For all these reasons, we are asking today for a positive vote on motion No 39, which contains five points. The first point asks to take normative initiatives aimed at modifying the blessed article 6, paragraph 17, of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, in order to restore the prohibition of research activities, exploration, as well as the cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea within 12 miles, also for the granting procedures in progress on the date of entry into force of Legislative Decree no. 128 of 2010. The second point calls for support for the start of the examination of draft laws aimed at amending the existing legislation on the research, exploration and cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons at sea, already deposited in the two branches of Parliament. The third point calls for the withdrawal of the EIA acceptance measure contained in Opinion No 1192 of 3 April 2013. The fourth point calls for the revocation of the licences already issued with reference to the granting procedures referred to in Articles 4, 6 and 9 of Law No 9 of 1991 in progress on the date of entry into force of Legislative Decree No 128 of 2010, and, consequently, the suspension of the effectiveness of all the authorisation procedures and grantors consequent and related to the activities of research, development and cultivation of hydrocarbons. The fifth point asks to submit, in order to greater environmental protection in the border areas of marine protected areas and the entire coastline of the Italian territory, all the aforementioned activities of exploration, research and cultivation of hydrocarbons to new procedure of environmental impact assessment referred to in Articles 21 et seq. of the legislative decree, n. 152 of 2006, and to strategic environmental assessment referred to in Articles 11 et seq. of the same decree, in agreement with the Region and after acquisition of the opinion of the local authorities. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u100	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are opposed to the suspension because we believe that dealing with this issue is indeed a matter of urgency precisely because of the infamous Article 35 of Decree-Law No 83 of 22 June 2012, which allows us not even to submit to the EIA regime. Not to mention that this is creating considerable difficulties in many areas of the country that were the ones spoken for beauty and biodiversity to really be the flagship of the environmental ecosystem of our country. For these reasons, we declare our opposition to the suspensive issue. [[Applause from Senator Morra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u103	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we were ready to discuss this matter. However, we are going back to the House and, therefore, we accept the postponement of the debate, probably to next week. However, I would like to take advantage of the presence of the undersecretary Vicari that comes from a very delicate area like Sicily that has coasts and environmental heritage of all respect. Our aim was to raise awareness among the House and the Government about the area of the High Adriatic. Venice is perhaps the most famous capital in the world for its goods, history and culture. What is happening in the upper Adriatic undoubtedly concerns the populations and territories. The regulation has taken place over time, but we would like to keep the protection of the High Adriatic very strict. The Mediterranean, we know, is in itself a closed sea, but the Adriatic is also a closed sea, with a very, very poor replacement. We have seen the latest incidents in the Gulf of Mexico which have caused irreparable damage. Well, if in that context and in the presence of currents happened, what happened in our parts an accident of that kind would prejudice forever historical, architectural and the city of Venice, which is particularly dear to us. We'll be back on the subject next week. Therefore, we accept the proposal to suspend the discussion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u106	Barani (GAL). Mr President, we, as a group, are in favour of postponement. However, I would like to make a comment aloud by addressing my colleague Castaldi, who seemed to me to be a student who prepared on Leopardi and who, when the topic on Pascoli came out, did the theme on Leopardi. The debate focused on whether or not to postpone the debate, not on the substance. I think it's honest and fair not to make fun of us. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u108	Why do you ask for the floor? I would remind you that a representative of your parliamentary group has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u109	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that Senator Barani spoke out loud all the time that the motion was read and did not listen to it. In fact, he misunderstood "the" link with "the" colleague. I do not think this is worthy of the Senate Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u112	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to point out that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for Europe is also in favour of the suspensive proposal, partly because, among other things, we in the Environment Committee have just decided to investigate the whole issue of offshore drilling. Therefore, I think it is worth looking into the situation in the light of the particularly crooked regulatory system that has been created.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u113	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u114	You can do it at the end of your session, Senator Castaldi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u116	What does the government mean? Mr VICARI, State Secretary for Economic Development. Mr President, the government does not think it should say anything. However, I wanted to know whether I should give an opinion on the matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. This is an incidental matter, which is a matter for Parliament. However, if you wish to speak, the Rules of Procedure give you the title. Mr VICARI, State Secretary for Economic Development. Okay. I'm not gonna lie down.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, it is understood that, if the proposal for a postponement is adopted, the sitting at which the motions are to be held will be held after the completion of the work to be carried out in the Commission, at the date and time when they will be decided by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups. I put to the vote the proposal for referral, made by Senator Esposito Giuseppe. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The result seems pretty obvious to me, but I'd keep the locks running. So, I'm ordering the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. (Senator Moronese takes a picture with her mobile phone.) Ladies and gentlemen, this practice is not tolerated in this House: nothing can be filmed or photographed except by photographers authorised in their own gallery. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] Razzi (PdL). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the counterproof closed. It's approved. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot kidnap mobile phones and everything. However, I would like to call for a regulation and a bon ton between colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u120	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask for a correction to my vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), first signed by Senator Bitonci, which was adopted at yesterday's afternoon sitting, which was against, while it was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u121	Senator Puppato, you're gonna stay on the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-51.ana.u123	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 27 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12:43 a.m.
