ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 22 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins. Pending the determinations of the Conference of Leaders, which is currently under way, I am suspending the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 10.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 5 December. At today's sitting, the Assembly will discuss the draft budget and stability laws in the draftsman's text, in the absence of a mandate from the rapporteurs. In accordance with the 1999 and 2006 precedents, they will be deemed to be retabled (by 10.30 a.m.) in addition to the amendments rejected by the Commission, even those not examined by the Commission for temporal reasons. Since the Government has announced its intention to put the question of confidence in the draft Stability Act, the Conference of Leaders has set out the following scanning of the timing for discussion of the two measures. Following the speech by President Azzollini, who will report on the state of play, the discussion of any incidental issues will take place at the joint general discussion. For these phases, a total of 4 hours were allocated to the Groups. Following the Government's reply, the amendments and articles of the draft budget will be voted on. The general discussion on confidence in the stability bill - for which it will be divided between groups 2 hours and 30 minutes - will presumably begin at 4.30 p.m., after the presentation of the maxi amendment by the Government and the assessment of its financial coverage by the Budget Commission. The final explanations of vote will take place from 7 p.m., while the Senators call it is scheduled for around 8.30 p.m. The session will then be suspended to allow the Government to present the Note of changes to the budget which, as soon as forwarded, will be immediately referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. The Assembly will then proceed to the vote of the Note of variations and the final vote of the draft budget law, with the presence of the quorum. On the day of tomorrow - which provides for a single sitting with suspension between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. - the report of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunity on the contested election in the Molise Region will be examined. Where agendas are presented in contradiction with the conclusions of the Junta, explanations of vote will be referred to all the instruments presented. It has been established that the agendas will be put to the vote at 7 p.m. and therefore the Presidency is entitled to harmonise the timing of the debate. The timetable also includes, on Thursday 28 November, the examination of the Puglisi motion on the protection of children's rights. Next week will be discussed the motion Nencini on the relationship of affiliation between Italian parties and European parties and, where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies, the decree-law on the extension of international missions. At the opening of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 4 December, the vote will take place for the election of four actual members and four alternate members of the Supervisory Committee on the Deposit and Loan Fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting this morning, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 5 December: [[Tuesday 26 November ant. h. 9,30 - Discussion of draft laws nn. 1120 and 1121 - Stability Act 2014 and Budget Act 2014-2016 (Final ratings with the presence of the quorum) - Doc. III, n. 1 - Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the contested election in the Molise Region (Wednesday 27) - Motion n. 65, Puglisi, on the protection of children's rights Wednesday 27 " ant. h. 9.30 (*) Thursday 28 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 28 November pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law no. 1120 and 1121 (Law of Stability 2014 and Budget Law 2014-2016) will have to be submitted by 10.30 a.m. on Tuesday 26 November. (*) The sitting will be suspended from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. [[Tuesday, December 3, pom. h.16.30-20 - Motion No 113, Nencini, on the affiliation relationship between Italian parties and European parties - Vote for the election of 4 effective members and 4 alternates of the Supervisory Committee on the Deposit and Loan Fund (Wednesday 4, ant.) (*) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 114, extension of international missions (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 9 December) Wednesday 4" ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 5 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 5 December pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill No... (Decree-Law No 114, extension of international missions) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. (*) At the opening of the afternoon session on Wednesday, December 4th the call of the senators will be made. Each senator will receive a card indicating the names of three senators as actual members and three alternates. Then the ballot boxes will remain open. Breakdown of time for the joint general discussion of draft law Nos. 1120 and 1121 (Stability 2014 and Budget 2014-2016) [[Groups 4 hours, of which: PD 54' FI-PdL XVII 37' M5S 32' NCD 24' SCp 21' LN-Aut 19' Mixed 19' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 17' GAL 17' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for the general discussion of the question of trust on draft law No 1120 (Law of Stability 2014) [[Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 34' FI-PdL XVII 23' M5S 20' NCD 15' SCp 13' LN-Aut 12' Mixed 12' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 11' GAL 11' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 114, extension of international missions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 07' FI-PdL XVII 46' M5S 40' NCD 30' SCP 26' LN-Aut 24' Mixed 24' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u8	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I do not want to slow down or disturb the work, but with regard to the speech that has just been read, there is a great deal of concern about the innovations that are being introduced. In fact, we have organized our work and the government's statements on the assumption that the question of trust is being raised. However, we have not yet reached that point. It is a well-established and always respected practice for the rapporteur's report to be carried out, namely the President of the Commission to report to us on the work of the rapporteur, and for the general discussion after which the amendments to the budget articles and the budget articles are voted. At that point, the Government can present - it is in its availability - a maxi amendment and on the same possibly request confidence. We have always waited for the time when the maxi amendment and the request for a vote of confidence were handed over. At that point, the House suspends its work and the President convenes the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups to organise its work with regard to the discussion of the issue of trust. We are now approving a timing set on the basis of what the representative of the Government told us at the Conference of Leaders, but the request for trust must be formally presented in this House with the maxi amendment and the technical report, which must be entrusted to the 5th Commission; only after the discussion of the issue of trust can we begin. It seems to me that the timing of the eventuality changes a very sensible practice. In this organization of work I find that there is something which is also squealing in relation to the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, I find it inappropriate that the Senate, which has shown that it has a well-functioning Rules of Procedure, should be debating a bill of stability in a few hours, in a House of Parliament, which will then have three-year value. I am very perplexed about the new practice that is being introduced, because in the future we could pay dearly for these forces and such sudden accelerations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u11	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have already spoken on another occasion on the timetable of proceedings, representing a requirement for you and the House: in the Committee on Justice we launched, essentially unanimously (there was only the abstention of the 5 Star Movement Group), an urgent measure which concerns, in line with certain protocols of the prosecutors of the Republic of the territory, the planning of the destruction of abusive artifacts. Between the approval of a decree-law and now the discussion of the bill of stability, that provision, which had already been included in the timetable of the work, has passed into the background. I realize that all the measures brought to the attention of this House are important, just as this measure is, but it has urgent connotations compared to others, because in following the chronological order, as some imagines to have to do, the destruction of so-called needy abusive artifacts is taking place these days. I therefore believe that in the responsibility of the Senate Chamber there is a decision on this measure, so that we can obtain the homogeneity in the territory of the criteria that must follow the planning on the killings. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to await the urgency of the measure, to consider whether it is appropriate to include in the timetable the discussion of this measure, which - I repeat - has been approved in the Commission with substantial unanimity, so that it can be dealt with as soon as possible with the urgency it deserves.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u14	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I understand the spirit of Senator Calderoli's speech, but the timetable has been unanimously approved by the Conference of Leaders. If there are any future events that we have not foreseen, I certainly believe that the Presidency has the tools (and I am sure it will use them) to update the situation. It seems to me, however, that at this moment we must proceed in accordance with the timetable adopted unanimously at the Conference of the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u17	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, as Senator Zanda said just now, the timetable has been adopted unanimously, although I think it will be appropriate, after the examination and - I hope - for the adoption of the stability bill, to reflect on the characteristics that the instrument has gradually taken on and that appear to some extent far from the intentions of those who have regulated it at the time. It had to be a simple and clear tool; it has gradually become too complex and place where endless demands are concentrated (understandable each taken on its own, but less legitimate as a whole), which make the budgetary decision less transparent and less effective. I agree with what Senator Palma has proposed a moment ago, because the subject he raised, however you judge it, is finally worth a decision by the House, and so I join him and join him in the Conference of the Leaders to put this issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u20	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have talked about the timetable, but objectively we now have the overall time allocated to our Group: 37 minutes in general discussion and 23 minutes in the debate on the matter of trust. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Shame! ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as you know, we have been cooperative in the Budget Committee, we have agreed to discuss without having any precise congeniality about what the Government would then propose. We waited until last night for the Government's proposals to arrive on the fundamental and fundamental issues on which we had discussed both in the discussion with the Government and in the Conference of the Leaders. Tonight, at 2.45 a.m., the Commission's work finally ended, but unfortunately it could not be concluded. Everything has been referred back to the House, and this debate is being reactivated in this House. Not only in the Commission has the work not been completed and the Government has arrived with extraordinary delay, but - and President Azzollini himself has acknowledged this on more than one occasion - it seems to me that the quota proposed is absolutely unacceptable. With all the good will that we can show anywhere, the bitter conclusion of this debate for us results in the possibility of speaking a few minutes as a parliamentary group on an issue of fundamental importance for the country and for Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u23	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out that President Calderoli has expressed a position of the Group and not as a vice-president. It was a reasoning that needed to be done regardless of who expressed it. Mr President, in the particular circumstances of the moment, i.e. in view of the fact that the process of the law of stability (or, as it was once called, the financial procedure) had not seen, since 1996, a result where there was no presence of the work carried out by the Commission and reported to the House by the rapporteurs, I believe that we need at least a reflection on the timing of participation in the debate, to suggest that this Senate still has value in parliamentary work and in the construction of a law of financial planning of the country for the next three years. Our Group, Mr President, has been allocated a total of 19 minutes. We have begun - let me say this - with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which had four days to give an opinion to the Committee on Budgets, so that some committees have not even had the opportunity to look into the matter and have not returned the opinion. We have had, then, twenty days of absolutely not fruitful discussion in the Budget Commission. Last night - as has already been said and it must be confirmed firmly - the government, surreptitiously, through the rapporteurs, brought the last amendments, among other things on important issues of political importance, such as those of the house, at 6.30 p.m. and at 2.30 p.m., was decided by the majority and the government to close the debate. I believe that, at least out of respect for the work of all senators and, in particular, of the opposition, giving us 19 minutes to talk about these matters is a mockery: not for the North League Group, but for the Senate you represent, Mr President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u25	Senator Romani has already spoken for his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u26	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I made a request yesterday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On what theme? It has already been said that the Conference of Leaders will deal with the issue raised by Senator Palma. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, yesterday, during the presidency of Senator Calderoli, I put a specific question: they want the Presidency and the Conference of Leaders to set a deadline of at least three or four hours for tabling amendments. I went to see if the text had been deposited: there is still no text, Mr President, and you set the deadline for tabling amendments at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u27	Excuse me, Senator Caliendo. There is no Commission text: let us start with the one submitted by the proposers. [[Comments of Senator Caliendo]] The rapporteur has been removed from office, the majority has removed the rapporteur. So we have no rapporteur. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u30	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, unfortunately, both at the Conference of the Leaders and here we are in the middle of a debate with surreality. The central theme is that of the times that may be used by the Groups for a discussion that is certainly not the one focused on the text of the proposer, that is to say on the proposal made by the Government regarding the future law of stability and the country's budget, but on a maxi amendment on which the Government (as Senator Calderoli said), in a surreal way, announced the confidence yesterday and also today in the Conference of the Leaders and not in the Chamber. The reasoning that I want to complete is that the statement that led to the Conference of Leaders the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Franceschini, is the description, the aggressiveness of the maxi amendment. Mr Franceschini said: the maxi amendment will not cover any subject which has not already been dealt with and resolved in the budget committee or which has simply been dealt with. The excellent offices will be able to report to you, Mr President, that the previous one is the 2005 budget for 2006, when we arrived in the Chamber without rapporteur and the text of the maxi amendment was with many references to issues not voted on but dealt with. I would like to warn you that, in accordance with Article 72 of the Constitution, which says that every bill submitted to a House is, in accordance with the rules of its Rules of Procedure, examined by a Commission, it will never be possible to examine in this House the maxi mum amendment if this concerns issues not discussed, including the simple submission of amendments, in the Budget Committee. But in the event that this could happen, the precedent of the 2005-2006 financial year affected the Assembly for over a day in the discussion of the maxi amendment. The forecast that we made at the Conference of the Leaders that the maxi amendment should be examined only for half an hour in the Commission and for an hour and a half in this House, since it is a rosy forecast in relation to Mr Franceschini's statements, was hesitated unanimously. It is understood, Mr President, that when we look at the maxi amendment, if this is not easy to read, we will be forced, regardless of whether, however, if we behave as we have always done, we should meet again at the Conference of the Leaders, to take the floor and call for its sensitivity to take place without doubt and without a debate, because it is certainly necessary and indispensable for Parliament to observe the dictation of Article 72 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u32	Senator Bernini, I have already given the floor to the Parent Company, Senator Romani: you cannot intervene...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u33	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, forgive me, but it is essential for us, given the irrational way in which the work in the Commission has been closed, that this confidence has been announced and that the content of the maxi amendment is being composed, that we propose at least a doubling of the speaking time: both the general one and the confidence one. [[Senator Floris' applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u34	The decision has already been taken by the Conference of Leaders. [[Comments and protests from FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and GAL Groups]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You can make changes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The timing quota has been set in total by the Conference of Leaders and is proportional to the representation of the Groups. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). We made a request! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We must proceed with the work. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). It's a shame! You're a disgrace!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u35	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 1121 and 1120. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I call the Rules of Procedure! [[Protests from the FI Group - PdL XVII]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, final votes on both measures will be taken by nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. [[Senators Scilipoti and Gasparri indicate that they want to intervene.]] I call the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report on the Commission's work. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Azzollini, don't talk: don't be an accomplice to this abuse! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I remember that President Azzollini worked until 2.45 this morning, as reported in the reports, as well as all of you. It is therefore right to listen to the results of the Commission's work. [[Senators Gasparri and Scilipoti continue to mention wanting to intervene]] SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). There's a proposal. There's a proposal, ma'am. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There is a timetable to be changed, Mr President. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). President. - I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Azzollini, you may intervene. VOICES FROM CLASSINCD AND FI-PdL XVII. No! No! Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, Mr Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I asked to speak on the order of business, Azzollini. Mr Azzollini (NCD). Then do it. Don't tell me. (Senator Scilipoti stands before Senator Azzollini.) CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). It's a violation of the rules. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Don't lend up yet, Azzollini. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, just a moment of silence. Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure provides... [[Comments]] SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). President! President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The discussion of the draft law approving the estimates of the State and the draft financial law, as articulated in its stages from the preceding paragraphs, is organized by the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups pursuant to Article 55, paragraph 5 of the Rules of Procedure. And it is not the subject of debate in this House. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). No! No! SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). There's a request, ma'am. [[Senator Caliendo's protests.]] We've put forward a proposal! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President Azzolini, you have the floor. [[Protests from FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] We're from a conference of group leaders. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). (Senator Scilipoti approaches the benches of the Government.) There's a proposal! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti, lower your voice and go in your place. [[Senator Scilipoti's protests]] Please go in your place. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). ...and you're the president. You must respect the parliamentarians! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Azzollini, you can start the relationship. Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr. President... [[Senator Gasparri's comments.]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Fairness, please. [[Senator Gasparri points out that he wants to intervene.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is President Azzollini must report on the Commission's work. That is the agenda. The Conference of Leaders has already decided. [[Comments of Senator Malan]] Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). It's not like that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is not a matter for the House. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). The order of business may be discussed at any time. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Without discussing the text, it is inconceivable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, you were present at the Conference of Leaders and you know how it took place. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Don't borrow it, Azzolini! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Let me tell you nicely. [[Comments of Senator Palma]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is You do not force me to take the necessary steps in this House. Senator Azzolini, you have the floor. Anyone who prevents her from speaking... Mr Azzollini (NCD). Thank God, no one's stopping me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then talk! [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u36	Mr President, the Budget Committee has not finished its work, although it has examined the measure until 2.45 p.m. this morning. He could not conclude them because at 2.30 a.m. this morning the number of amendments which were still on the Commission's agenda was so high (in the order of several hundred) that it was in no way possible to conclude the work in the time allocated to us by the Conference of Leaders, namely 9 a.m. this morning. First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members of the Commission for their work. On the basis of their political positions, everyone has participated with passion and competence in the work of the Commission itself. For as long as the Commission has worked, until the last minute, the work has been carried out regularly on the basis of absolutely legitimate behaviour on the part of all, which has shown, in every part, the will to examine the text in depth. I would also like to thank the Government, which has been attentive and present and has made a serene and serious contribution to the work. I would also like to thank all the offices that have witnessed us with absolute dedication: this seems to me, Mr President, a fact that I must resign to them because the work done to the end is worthy of careful consideration. Of course, I should also like to thank the rapporteurs, whom I forgot: we have been in contact these days, but their work has even been impressive on the psychophysical level, and this must be done to them. The issues examined and the amendments adopted concern a number of important issues. First of all, there has been a very timely response - which can of course be assessed in accordance with the principles of each of the senators and senators - to the serious disaster that has recently struck Sardinia. That is why I felt obliged to thank all the Members of the Commission because, with speed and passion, they have allocated the first appropriations for the disaster in Sardinia. Equally important was an amendment approved by the Commission on the release of access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises and households. This is a significant volume of stakeouts that, through the so-called leverage effect of credit, will be able to activate a valueable mass in some billion euros available to small and medium-sized enterprises and families. Another amendment approved, linked to a very important and important issue that the Commission as a whole, the Government and the rapporteurs with my modest contribution have addressed and resolved, was the one aimed at rebuilding the fund for non-self-sufficiency, with an implementation of a considerable amount of 75 million, over 25 earmarked for the restoration of the fund for home care for patients with very serious disabilities. Mr President, Senators and Senators, I should like to say to you that the amendment was, of course, shared with great passion and sincerity by the entire Budget Commission. Also important was the examination of the new text on the house, with a significant figure (in the order of hundreds of millions), placed for deductions and a possible increase of the deductibility of the IMU for IRES purposes. This last amendment was not approved, the amendment on the house was not even addressed: it had been tabled, but the progress of the work did not allow it to be approved, and yet this is a measure that has been for the Commission's attention in a significant way. Amendments on other issues of great importance, Mr President, had already been submitted to the Commission and should have been examined, but for reasons of time it has not been possible to do so, even if these are issues which the Government will well be able to take into account in the amendment on which it will put the question of trust which it will submit to Parliament. Mr President, as much attention has been paid to the issue of cover, so that the limited resources available are actually covered, so that the beneficiaries can be assured that the availability is actually covered by the Stability Act. One final point, Mr President: we have not even been able to conclude, always for reasons of time, the examination of the draft budget law and therefore also that is submitted to the Assembly in the text of the proposer, the Government, text which, after the joint debate, will have to be submitted to the Assembly for approval. This is the state of play, Mr President, that I will give you a reply for the continuation of the debate on the 2014 stability bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u37	In relation to Senator Azzollini's report, the draft law in title, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text presented by the proposer without report, pursuant to Rule 44, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u40	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. That is why I have asked for the floor first in vain and I would like to know whether I am intervening on the order of business and not in general discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The general debate has been opened, so this speech is a matter of time. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make this point: I am doing it politely and I would also ask you, given your busy days, to play your role impartially. It has never been seen to prevent an intervention on the order of business, even to a Vice-President of the Assembly. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u41	You are intervening on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u42	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you for your kindness. As far as the progress of the debate is concerned, you said earlier that there was unanimity in the Conference of Leaders. I was present at the meeting and Senator Calderoli, who was sitting next to the chairman of his group, Senator Bitonci, who is in the Chamber, said that he did not agree with the definition of the timetable as agreed; therefore, there is one element that allows us to discuss the proposals that have been made. One, advanced by Senator Bernini, concerns the doubling of time. The doubling of the time, ladies and gentlemen, means that the discussion, instead of lasting four or five hours, lasts eight hours: we are not talking about Bible times. Faced with a text which is not yet known, because we have to wait for the maxi amendment and the procedure has gone as it has gone - and not within, as you see, the substance of the stability law, but I am sticking to the order of business - I think it is more than correct for the House to comment on Senator Bernini's proposal. The House will probably disagree, but the window creates the position of President Calderoli at the Conference of the Group Leaders on the calendar, to which Senator Bernini's request has been linked. The assembly can decide in a few seconds on a request of this nature, which does not go in the sense of doubling the time to arrive next year, but of transforming a debate of three or four hours into a debate of six or seven hours on an important and fundamental law that will end, as we all know, with a vote of confidence. It does not seem to me that if you work three more hours you can change the balance of the Republic. I believe that this is an attitude of wisdom, also in view of the delicate political-parliamentary phase we are experiencing. So, Mr President, as you can see, if you had given me the floor earlier, I would have explained in the same tone, absolutely calm and objective, the thesis referred to by the proposal that I referred to and that the Members of this House - it is their right - will be able to accept or reject. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u43	Thank you, Senator Gasparri. The quota of time, as I have already said, cannot be discussed or proposed in this House. I therefore give the floor to Senator Nencini, who is a member of the joint general debate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u44	Mr President, the measure that begins your iter in the Chamber this morning is a political act which must be read in synergy with the policy acts with which the Government has presented itself to the Senate and the House and on which, a few months ago, you asked for a vote of confidence. In our case - and I hope so - the law of stability could also certify the birth of a majority other than the one that gave birth to the Led Government. This would serve to clarify the parliamentary classrooms and, above all, it would be useful for the government to give a boost to its agenda of priorities. It is therefore expected that there will be a political discontinuity, with the shift from a majority of the broad intentions to a more net European majority, and a discontinuity in the government agenda, where there is not only a discussion of 'IMU' yes, 'IMU' yes', but also a new piggy bank through which to finance the social state and a policy of new investments. I would like to add three comments on the data examined by the Budget Committee and presented to the House. They're staggering data. Firstly, it is stressed that unemployment has increased in a year of 16%; then there is a second figure, which shows how the tax burden from the pockets of Italians for 44.5 percent, despite the commitments made by all previous governments; a third figure shows that, in the five years 2008-2013, 400,000 VAT matches have been closed in the sectors of commerce, crafts and small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, there is one last fact on which it is worth focusing our attention when we talk about tax evasion: I am referring to the fact that tax evasion from receipt - which one of the members of the current Government, which sits in the benches today, called survival theory, and I agree - amounts to about 4% of the total. 33% of the evasion belongs to big companies, big companies, but - above all - 43% belongs to the criminal economy. If there is a weak point in the law of stability we should trace it in the fact - and I hope the House will do so, since it will read the provision in not many days - that it is lacking in two major issues of our time. The first is that of return poverty, which we are often not used to governing and manipulating. The second question, in times of shortage and crisis of public expenditure, concerns the financing of the social state and the new welfare. We have tabled a number of amendments - one of which has been quite fortunate, compared with the others which have had a bad fate, but which we will still be returning to the House - to find a new piggy bank from which to draw money, both to finance the social state, and to reduce the tax burden on average-low incomes. These are three largely new sources. The first - ancient, but forgotten to examine and treat as we should have - is mentioned in the recovery by the powers of the State of the 4 billion ICI of ecclesiastical origin, linked not to charitable works, but to commercial activities. The second is the 7 billion coming from the fight against ludopathy. Finally, the third corresponds to an asset on the great riches. A total of 50 billion euros needed to put our hand on that European framework operation that we are being asked for. Our trust will be linked not to today, but to a transposition into the House of these three points: in that case we will put the trust in the Government. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u45	I have already pointed out that the organisation of the times is the prerogative of the Conference of Leaders. However, since some groups are giving up their speeches, the Presidency allows the transfer of these times to the Forza Italia Group. Therefore, all possible times in relation to quota will be yours, as per request. [[Comments of the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u46	And we don't?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u49	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think this is a good thing, but giving all the remaining time to Forza Italia is not right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They've asked for them, you're asking for them now. Now we're gonna share them with the League. VOLPI (LN-Aut). But do you listen to us when we talk to you or make fun of you? BITONCI (LN-Aut). Senator Volpi did a very clear surgery earlier. We too have complained explicitly about the tight deadlines; therefore, as a force of opposition, we ask that a share of these minutes be allocated to the Group of the North League, which seems to me to have been opposed for a few weeks more than the new opposition groups. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u52	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I would like to express some gratitude to Senator Nencini, who has not complained, but I hope that you will allow us a little more tidy work, because the quantity of sheds in the hemicycle is truly unbearable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u53	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of us today that the law we are about to vote does not represent for the Italians only one of the main rules laid down by the Italian legal order aimed at regulating three years of the economic life of our country; it is not just another occasion of heated debates and evidence of strength among the political groups inside and outside the Chamber, in newspapers and TV talk shows aimed, more than anything else, at a sterile self-promotion in view of electoral campaigns. It is much more: the desire of a country to return to its head, to look with confidence towards the future, to leave behind one of the darkest periods of our Republic, and not only from the economic point of view. Parliament's responsibility today is not to extinguish this hope in the citizens of the old and new generations and to respond to the often desperate demands we receive on the net, in blogs, on the street, in demonstrations in the streets. The country, our country, in its social components, asks us for a law of stability that does not only look at public debt, but that promotes investment for businesses, requires more economic efforts to those who have more, who value human capital as the most important form of capital in the modern economy, through support for knowledge, research and education. We have a responsibility to adopt a text aimed at economic recovery, which challenges the negative forecasts of Italy's GDP growth, which was issued by the European Commission on 15 November. Today we should vote on a measure that reminds Europe, and in particular Germany, that investment stimulates growth, restarts consumption, consolidates public budgets. Ungrowth-free strict accounts endanger the Union's own standing, and Germany should become aware that continuing to impose its unreasonable austerity recipes will remain alone. In fact, it is worth remembering that in the last two years, although the tax burden has increased and the primary public expenditure has decreased in nominal terms, the ratio of public debt to GDP has increased by more than 12 points: 2013 revenues will be about 30 billion lower than the forecast that the Monti Government presented to Parliament at the time of its installation, before intervening with the manoeuvre of December 2011. The recession, in short, has almost completely frustrated that maneuver and gives us even a worse picture than what at the time seemed to be bad enough to induce, as we will recall, the newly installed government to intervene heavily. This shows that the problems of our public accounts are due to low growth lustres followed by two heavy recessions. If the economy does not grow, no matter how much effort is made on the expenditure and revenue side, the sustainability of public finance, measured synthetically by the debt-to-GDP ratio, does not improve. The most urgent need is now to support demand for goods in order to get us out of the recession, and to revitalize it we need to improve labour market conditions. Today, with my speech, I feel the need to tell citizens how the 5 Star Movement has lived all this with a sense of responsibility towards the country. The approach used in the analysis and lawmaking of the law of stability was that of the good father of the family, who, with deep attention and sensitivity, listens to the needs of his children in order to make the best use of available resources. We have opened up to dialogue with all social groups, we have assessed the demands of the various economic sectors, we have faced debates on conflicting interests, fighting even in our home in order to seek a synthesis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia, I invite you to conclude. FUCKSIA (M5S). Anyone who has been able to talk to us, write to us, communicate with us and find an interlocutor interested in accepting proposals and solutions. It was not easy, in the end, to collect all the demands, expectations and desires and make choices. We have tried to manage with conscience the thin portfolio of a country that has been reducing for decades of bad administration and shameless denial of an economic crisis that gripped even the most lively and productive forces. The good father of the family, it is known, considers all his children equal, but when the economic possibilities are scarce and he is still called to make choices, the only criterion in order to be able to make them in a fair and just way is to satisfy in the first place the needs of the weakest children, those who need greater help. The 5 Star Movement has also been inspired by this principle in presenting and fighting for the adoption of amendments to a law of stability found cold and shortsighted in relation to certain social issues. First the weakest: this is our wind rose. This, therefore, is the rationale behind the legislative interventions of the 5 Star Movement, especially in some sensitive sectors such as health care. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia, finish, please. FUCKSIA (M5S). In fact, we have not remained deaf to the important suggestions provided by the many stakeholders, including the National Forum of the Third Sector, which explained the close link between poverty and disability, connected in a perverse relationship of cause and effect where, in other words, disability creates poverty and vice versa. Precisely because we are convinced of this causal link, we have struggled to increase twice as much as the draft stability law presented by the Government, the endowments of the Fund for non-self-sufficiency, including those in support of people suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. FUCKSIA (M5S). At the same time, we have dealt with health training. Our proposals for intervention on this bill have been 5 Stars, all inspired by a common denominator: to promote economic stability not based on immobilism, but on the stimulus, the solicitation of a country system that has long been waiting to restart. You clearly prevented us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly face the bill of stability in a way that I believe is inadequate in relation to the situation in the country, and - I say this as a citizen who is experiencing his first experience in Parliament - also very disappointing. I fear and believe that this is the fruit of the times, it is the fruit of a government that has everything but the interest of the country among its priorities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We have seen it in the Commission where the times have been dilated to infinity only to satisfy the omnivorous needs of the majority, aimed at gathering some more votes by granting some marchetta here and there, and where for whole weeks has been chased the consent of individual senators losing sight, instead, the real problems to which the country calls us out of sense of responsibility every day. This was the beginning of the presentation of the stability bill, and so the work of the Budget Committee continued until last weekend. It must be made known to the country: the work has been flooded by the same majority that should have facilitated the work of the Budget Commission. What happened instead? At the last moment amendments were tabled by the Government. No one comes to say that oppositions have obstructed in the strict sense! We have tried to give voice to the real problems of the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We have asked for the importance of the tax burden that is choking companies, of the importance (as it should be) of the municipalities strangled by an unsustainable stability pact, of the families. And what happened? We were faced with a number of amendments tabled by the majority which stifled the same voice as the opposition. Yesterday, at 6 p.m., the government tabled the most important amendments: those on the house, those on the billing and on the beaches. They seem ridiculous, but they are serious issues on which the government has left no room for opposition to deepen and address issues. I'd like to have at least one representative of the government in the Chamber, at least one sitting between the benches of the government! Not a deserted Chamber, left to itself, empty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Is that the respect we have for this House? The timing of the Members of Parliament is being compressed, there is no room for debate on the real issue - the work that we must give to the Italians - and today we are asking to hold a debate in the Chamber in the absence of the Government! This is a shame! [[Greeting protests from Senator Council.]] You, President, have a duty to enforce the Senate, to represent the prerogatives of the Senate. We cannot continue the debate in this situation! [[Vivacious protests from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There's no government. You have to suspend the session! FERRARA Mario (GAL). You must immediately suspend the work of the Assembly! That requires the Rules of Procedure! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We're gonna suspend the session! Stop the session! They always have! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The government has already been called back. (The Undersecretary Vicari returns to sit among the benches of the Government).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u59	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, despite the excitement of these minutes and hours, I believe that you too, as well as us and many of the Members of this House, are serious, that respect for the Rules of Procedure is today the last and only life-saver to ensure the certainty and security of the application to this democratic system of constitutional and parliamentary rules which have always governed democratic life here. What determines the absence of the government from its benches, Mr President? It is not that you should rush to call on the representative of the Government to come to this House, but that you should be able to ensure that our work is carried out properly. And as you know, from the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups this morning, in which you certainly participated, we are no longer able to guarantee compliance with the rules. There is a constraint on everything, Mr President, and so I would ask you, with the utmost respect for our institutions and its role, to suspend work in order to ensure that the Groups participate regularly and with respect for the roles of all in the work of this important day for the approval of the bill of stability. I would kindly ask you, and with all the strength of the request of those who wish to cooperate in the respect of the institutions, to suspend the work of this House at this moment in order to allow the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups to meet again. It is a request which I would like to make on my own behalf and on behalf of the Group I represent (Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura), but consider it the request of a citizen, of a representative of the citizens: therefore, I ask you to stop for a minute to reflect before democratic rules are overwhelmed in this House. President Grasso, do not assume this responsibility! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u62	Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Today is a very important and delicate day. I believe, Mr President, that you are interpreting Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, where your prerogatives are listed, either in a very restrictive or in a highly extensive sense. I do not know, Mr President, if you entered the government tonight, because it is not up to you to anticipate a hypothetical vote of confidence, but it is up to a government that is sitting between these silent benches. I believe that this morning, in a surreal climate, we are discussing nothing, because there is no text, there is no rapporteur and because the government has not explicitly said that it will put the vote of confidence. So you have given us time on matters that are not even on the agenda, which are not known to us that we need to discuss and propose amendments. How is this possible, Mr President? Unfortunately, you're taking on a role that doesn't matter. You are not in the government: you must manage this House at a very delicate stage. You can't close everything to tarallucci and wine because tomorrow there's what's there. It's not like that! We know that the law of stability is a fundamental act and we need a serious debate. Vice Minister Fassina is present here, but the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance should also be there to tell us what they intend to do. It is not that nighttime one changes a tax, it is called in one way rather than another, and the problem is solved: there is no text, there is no rapporteur and, allow me, there is not even a proper management of the work of the House that respects the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Marin]] Mr President, it is useless for you to be a voice: you must respect the Rules of Procedure, and it seems to me that you have not yet joined the Government. You are not Fat aka Franceschini: you are Fat and you are the President of the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u63	We have begun the joint general discussion on the draft stability and budgetary laws as provided for in the agenda. I don't think there's anything else right now. The work of the 5th standing Commission could not be concluded because the majority withdrew the mandate from the rapporteurs. So, it was and is my duty to begin the general discussion on the bill of stability and budget. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] I therefore call on Senator Candiani to continue and conclude his speech in relation to the time already used.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u64	Mr President, this is certainly also an anomaly in the climate in which the draft stability law is being examined. I say this to the citizens in order to realize that at this moment the priorities that are dear to the Government and the majority are not to conclude the examination of a bill of stability that takes into account the expressions of the country. Once again - let us say this - laws are made without having previously assessed the impact on citizens who then have to bear the burden. In addition, the timing is also required (as we are seeing this morning and as it has been in the Commission), preventing the reduction of that error which is part from the very beginning of a text which, with great care, was presented only at the last moment. Why are the times compressed? This is the anomaly we're coming in these days. This is because the majority has a political priority: that of finally being able to bring a trophy that their electoral people have been waiting for for many years, regardless of the interest of the economy and citizens. This is what we have to record. We would have liked to be able to discuss serious issues in the Commission and also in this House: issues relating to work, work for young people, those who cannot find a home or those who, as an entrepreneur, bear such a tax burden that they are now unable to carry on their business. We would have liked to talk about these things, but the political priorities of the majority, this desire to be able to demonstrate their dominion, prevent citizens from having a serious response. A law of stability will then be enacted in some way, which will certainly be abundantly amended in the second passage to the House, and further inaccuracies and uncertainties will be thrown among those in the country who bear the tax burden. I would like to raise another question and point it out to the citizens carefully. Let us be careful, let us keep our eyes open, because the Government continues to say that everything is fine, but this is the attitude of those who take a dying person and accompany her by keeping her quiet, making her believe that she will recover, but with the sole aim of taking her inheritance, of tearing to shreds the fruits of the work of a whole life. So let us be careful when we are told that pieces of the great state economy, pieces of the big state companies, small pieces will be sold: we will sell a small piece of Finmeccanica, a small piece of ENI, a small piece of this and a small piece of that. This is how we start, after which we deliver the entire production system of the country abroad: this is what the Government is doing! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The interests of finance are supporting this government! That is what we do not want and that is why we say to the citizens: keep your eyes open! I would now like to make one final appeal. I recall the words spoken last night by a respectable person who sits in this branch of Parliament, Senator Sposetti, who said that he would like to be in opposition in order to be able to vote against this Government and this bill of stability, because it is an insult to the citizens who work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] These are the people who have a dignity, but I also want to see the result of the vote in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanièce. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as a representative in the Senate of the Autonomous Region of Valle d'Aosta, I have to stress some critical issues regarding the draft stability law under consideration, and I will therefore quote very briefly a few articles which are not very favourable to us. I am referring first of all to the allocation of the financial competitions of the regions with special status and of the autonomous provinces. The partnership of the Autonomous Region of Valle d'Aosta is about 109 million euros and, in relation to the other autonomous regions, is much higher than its reality. Let me give an example: Friuli-Venezia Giulia must share with 119 million euros, so this makes you understand how there is a profound injustice from this point of view. The other aspect that I would like to stress is the partnership with the cut-off of the National Health Fund. The Autonomous Regions with special status have also been called upon to participate, which are fully involved with regional funds. Therefore, we do not receive a euro from the National Health Fund, yet we must also share this expenditure. There are also other rules that do not respect the specific prerogatives of the special status of autonomy of the Valle d'Aosta, even with respect to other special realities. We had tabled amendments, which unfortunately have not been accepted, with a view to improving and trying to make this law of stability for Valle d'Aosta less burdensome. In the light, however, of the rule that has been written by Minister Delrio and presented by the Government, which of course takes into account some important elements for the Regions with special statute, and especially in the light of the availability manifested by President Letta - and I also thank Minister Franceschini and Minister Delrio - for an urgent meeting with our President of the Region, to clarify and overcome the problems still present and existing, I believe that, on our part, we can express ourselves in a favorable sense, also in view of the attitude that we must hold towards the country, which needs administrative and political stability.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u68	Mr President, I give up my speech and ask for permission to hand over the text so that it can be annexed to the shorthand report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u69	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u70	Mr President, senators and senators, I am pleased to say that I am speaking after three weeks of intense work. I believe that I will make a rather different intervention than those of those who preceded me. First of all, I want to thank all the staff - the Commission, the Senate in general, the Groups - who have worked so hard these weeks, supporting us all in our demands. It was also a great work of secretariat: in fact, the presentation of 3,000 amendments - which mean that there was participation, that there was the possibility for everyone to express themselves, to make their contribution - involved a great deal of work. These are not only the initial 3,000 amendments, but also all subsequent sub-amendments, which were other thousands of contributions. This is a job that I still think is useful. It is true that perhaps we should have been more efficient and focused more on our work, but it was a useful job, because the debate was there. I am in a very different position from those expressed in previous speeches. Senator Mussolini said there was no respect. There have been so many respects: the Budget Commission has been conducted very rigorously and everyone has been given the opportunity to speak. The senators who were present in the Commission know that. The League is well aware that its representatives have been able to speak and express themselves whenever they consider it appropriate. I believe, however, that we should no longer waste so much time talking about rules and how to proceed, but we should start talking about content. I believe that this bill of stability can certainly be improved (we have seen it in the three weeks of intense work), but surely it has brought a first sign of change and reversal of trend: an opening of a new policy, linked more to the needs of the real economy and to development and less to rigour, even if rigour continues to be an essential element. We cannot allow ourselves to abandon the policy of rigour, which allows us to be within the rules of the European Union. On the other hand, I think there are the first good signs of policies in support of the economy: resources for development, starting with the increase in the additional budget of the Development and Cohesion Fund and many other interventions that have been made. The amendments examined in the Commission's work have proposed interesting changes in this respect, and many have also been accepted. I believe that the focus on development must be very high. Already previous interventions have focused on the enormous problem of youth unemployment. I do not dwell on all the other problems of the workers and non-employed in our country, but I believe that the problem of youth unemployment must really be addressed with great serenity: we risk losing a generation that will in part go abroad. Therefore, the rules already contained in the Stability Act, but above all the amendments tabled went in this direction. Another important chapter is investment, which is certainly a lever of our economy: public investment must be unlocked, as must local authorities. In this direction, efforts have also been made to reduce the constraints of the Stability Pact for local authorities in order to give a boost. In the law of stability in particular some major investments have been mentioned, and, again, the proposed amendments concerned important infrastructure for our country. Particular attention has also been paid to measures on the protection of the environment and the territory, and alas - because it is extremely topical - to the whole problem linked to the management of the situation in Sardinia. I do not want to dwell any further, because unfortunately the times are very short, but I still remember the social measures, which are fundamental to our party. They are the other aspect of the medal: on the one hand, a major support for employment and businesses; on the other hand, social measures that help those who do not succeed. We must never leave anyone behind: a civilised country is the one who is careful never to leave anyone behind; the smallest of our citizens must be supported. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the TRISE. This is an important chapter, which has been central: we have thought a lot about it; many proposals have arrived, and surely in the maxi amendment there will be new proposals. I believe that in the end a balanced solution has been found, which is why we will be able to support this law of stability, even more so after we have seen the government's maxi amendment (which I hope and trust takes into account all the comments made in the work of the Budget Committee), and I believe that my whole Group will do so with conviction. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Puglia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u71	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u72	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you because, finally, after six months, we have the microphone at this station.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u73	You have to thank the technicians, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u74	MOLINARI (M5S). This is emblematic of the overall situation in which, unfortunately, we find ourselves! I had prepared an intervention, but given the progress of the work and what we have witnessed, we have all remained grounded (we who participate in this parliamentary activity as simple citizens) because, once again, you have used the needs of the country - the law of stability should be a key point, a turning point of this Government - to play on the rules, which we know very well are fundamental for a healthy democracy. It is those same rules that should prevent criminals from sitting in parliamentary classrooms; it is those rules that when it comes to social justice are never invoked; those rules that should safeguard the Italian people. I give up the speech that I had prepared so as not to lend myself to this game, because we have understood very well your attempt to play with the rules to prevent a proper decision by this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We, of course - we who are the only real opposition in this Parliament - have criticized this law of stability from the very beginning, because it belongs to that line that this Government is unfortunately following, like all the other governments that have succeeded so far. All it does is increase degressivity within the tax policy system. He's always hitting the same people. [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] I'm the poorest part of our country! It is small and medium-sized enterprises, workers and pensioners; they will continue to pay, because you will continue to have the same privileges! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u75	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text on which we are about to debate is still in many ways unknown. We have just heard the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Azzollini, who had to admit that the Commission itself did not complete its work. We are, therefore, faced with an alleged text: a large amendment drawn up elsewhere, which is not the Commission's own amendment, of course by the majority. We therefore have some difficulty in making improvements and suggestions: the imposition of confidence on the part of the Government makes this almost impossible. All that is left to those who are speaking on this document is to stick to general considerations. The first consideration is that we are faced with a coup d'état by the majority and, in spite of the good intentions, in this House the democratic franks, masters of pointing out to others the way to democracy and respect for the rules and the Constitution, have put us before a document at the last minute and in times of ridiculous truth. I believe that throughout the law of stability the only real saving was the saving of time allocated to the Groups in order to be able to discuss, modify and approve this law. What to say? There is a lot of confusion in this House: partly because there are those who have to forget their socialist and statist origins; partly because someone, for the truth - I don't want my colleague to grill - still uses the formula "social justice" as if this were the safe conduct or the characteristic element of a good policy. On the contrary, this law does not change at all the statist system, the pauperistic system, the criterion of a clearly announced asset and therefore the repeated inclination to go to fight wealth and not poverty. When we hear the words "social justice," we should remember that it is an oxymoron: the right things are right in themselves, they do not need to be modified or sweetened by other types of considerations. Since we are considered extremists by some, I would like to say something that meets the requirements of extremism. There is no stability bill in our examination, and in the majority there is no criterion not to make the liberal revolution, but not even to put a stop to the mechanism of public debt and to a resource-dissipating state, which continues to hold omnipresence and omniscience among its tasks. We have therefore not proposed any criteria to lighten the tasks and functions of the State in the economy; we have not proposed anything that would introduce into the bureaucratic machine weak, redundant, wasteful criteria of merit, productivity, efficiency or competence. We're still here with warm cloths moving a few digits from one chapter to the next so everything can be re-perpetuated from here on out. There is still no trace, within the health chapters, of those two billion which were to cover the tickets, especially for the poor. This tells you a lot about how much this government is inclined to help the poor and the poor. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Mario. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u77	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u78	Mr President, I apologise to you and to the House, but unfortunately our enthusiastic work planned for us in the Foreign Commission this morning a meeting (also for you: we heard your message). Thank you, therefore, for finding a new space for my speech. Since Mr Azzollini's excellent speech this morning we have understood how a little 'always in the last ten years - the financial law or the law of stability - when we arrive at the constitutional moment - what our friend Ferrara calls Article 72 of the Constitution - between interventions in general discussion and interventions on the order of business everything is very nuanced, not to say that everything is very confused. From this point of view, I believe that when we vote for confidence, I am a Member of Parliament who votes for confidence and majority voting, but in the name of Parliament and of the rights of the opposition, the Government's interlocutor at the time of trust can be the House and only the House, not the Conference of the Leaders. The same internal agenda which authorizes the Council of Ministers is not relevant as a time of dictation and constitutional practice. This year too, we must be very dissatisfied, not only with all the things that Mr Azzollini has said, yet again with Article 72 of the Constitution, but because we are unable to deal with our illness. Our disease is economic, European; it is all you want, but the truth is that it is constitutional. Do you really believe that since 2000, from that wretched reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, dictated by a low instinct of political retaliation towards the League, you can move forward with 20 Regions? President Letta comes and makes wonderful speeches about Europe. He followed the electoral campaign in Germany: there was talk of the elimination of the Länder. And any scholar, or even student, who says to a German colleague: "Our regions are your Länder" is immediately hit by a slap, an invitation not to offend. How then can we think of taking, with this load of local finance and with this impossibility, even with respect to an agenda of the House or the Commission, to cut the foreign policy offices of the regions, and not only of the southern ones? Our illness is then constitutional: then spending review and these things here, leave the time they find. My previous colleague, my friend D'Anna, was talking about health care. Health is at 80-90 per cent regional issue, but in which country of the world is a public body, the Region, born for financial intermediation purposes? I'm no less liberal, but less liberal than Senator D'Anna. Senator D'Anna talks about state finance, but where did you see it? In the state by now, we're cutting the gas from the police cars. On the finance of local authorities, regions, on Sunday's "Corriere della Sera" there is an impressive editorial by Ainis. That on the separation of economic policy aspects from those of constitutional policy is a reflection that many people in this House did this summer at the time of the vote on the DEF. This seems to me to be the insurmountable limit of the measure that we shall be voting on this afternoon, and on which my confidence will not be lacking. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Conte.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u79	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u80	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, the ongoing phase of difficulties experienced by our country, among its many effects, has to place on the measure under discussion multiple expectations in order to identify the appropriate measures to restart production, reducing the high level of unemployment which has particularly affected the youngest sections of the population. Moreover, to resume to grow means to increase the level of social well-being, but above all it means to have the resources available to reduce, through a serious revival of income policy, the increasing and no longer tolerable income and social inequality present in our country. In my opinion, there are lights and shadows on the measure; the Group of the Party of European Socialists will support it and I will vote for it: certainly we cannot disagree with those who too easily criticized the deliberate content of the bill of stability. This text moves within the parameters expressed in terms of public finance balances already defined in the discussion of the DEF and revised by virtue of the economic performance with the Update Note. It should be remembered that these parameters stem from our membership of the European Union and the resulting financial constraints; however, well aware of the role played by the State Accounting Reform Act, introduced in 2009, by the Stability Act, one cannot fail to highlight the critical issues. It is useful to remember that with the law we are called to adapt, on the basis of a regulatory framework to existing legislation, the financial quantities to the public finance objectives already set with the DEF and the Update Note. If the measures which will attempt to initiate a new and modern public intervention for the revival of the Italian economy will be the subject of discussion in the examination of the connected sects announced by the Government, it is true that one cannot fail to point out that through the article under discussion rules could be introduced to stimulate the economic recovery, as well as to perform their natural function of quantitative regulation of the financial quantities and definition of measures of a general nature. With the rules introduced with regard to increasing the deduction on earnings from employees (the so-called tax wedge), corrective action has rightly been taken to concentrate these resources, but I believe that one could, even on the basis of a debate that has developed within the majority forces, better concentrate those resources, because intervention in support of demand or has a volume that is significant, with an impact on the economy, or otherwise risks having a really very low system effectiveness. In fact, from this point of view it must be borne in mind that another aspect must be considered: the problem of the propensity to save, which indicates even more the difficulty of making this intervention effective. In this respect, it is necessary to mention the data of the Observatory on household savings, according to which, in a difficult economic environment, households are rebuilding their savings and in the next three years the share of disposable income devoted to savings should therefore increase. The propensity to save in the course of 2013 is expected to increase by about one percentage point and - the Observatory concludes - the share of disposable income dedicated to saving will grow again in the next three years. According to these data, it would have been more useful then to concentrate resources and try to lower the level of taxation on our companies, intervening on the deductibility of labour costs and on the basis of IRAP. It is not possible to continue to have an IRES tax at 27%, when in Ireland, for example, the corporate tax is at 12.5%. In addition to this sector, on which we should have concentrated our resources better, we should also have concentrated our funds on competitiveness, because even large volumes of resources supporting demand do not mean intervention on competitiveness. With regard to export, 2013 is characterized by signs still positive, although much lower than those of 2012 and, therefore, worrying about the capacity of our industrial and manufacturing system, which still represents the economic heart and the engine of our development, on which we had to intervene more punctually It seems to me that some opportunities have been wasted. I hope that the government will focus more on this and correct some aspects of the maneuver. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u81	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u82	Mr President, like all my colleagues, I had prepared a good speech for this law of stability, because we have worked so hard on it and we have also hoped so much for it. But seeing how work is taking place this morning in this House, I really feel like an extraterrestrial in here. I'm looking at you not with my own eyes, but with those of 9 million desperate people, and I don't understand what's going on right now in here, where you should decide the fate of 9 million people who aren't doing it anymore. Out of respect for them, and not for you in this House, I will ask the Presidency to be able to deliver my written speech to the offices, but know that everything here is less than the impression of thinking about those people, and it also gives the impression that the things we propose are not even heard. We have proposed a citizenship income to save the skin of people who are committing suicide, who do not know what to do every day. Do you know how much a kilo of bread costs? I ask you if you know how much a kilo of bread costs. Do you know that there is a kilo of bread that costs one euro and is called the bread of the poor? For these people I have respect and for them, as I have already said, I ask to be able to deliver the text of my speech, but know that you are people completely distant from this country and I cannot respect you; excuse me, but I cannot bring it to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u83	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech, Senator Paglini. Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u84	Mr President, I believe that perhaps we should all bring more than this House and the role we humbly try - at least so many of us - to play. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]] Generalizations, in fact, are not good for anyone. We all imagined that the discussion of this law of stability would take place in a different way. But we are at the time of broad understanding, and it has been said that the present coalition is the only coalition capable of saving the country. The failure of the economic policies of these years has led our country to one of the lowest moments of that economic crisis started five very long years ago. For us as the Ecological Left and Freedom, the discussion of the law of stability should have been an opportunity to translate certain priorities into concrete proposals and numerical posts: an extraordinary plan for work; investment in innovation, culture and education; reduction of corruption and waste; environmental recovery. The law of stability is to say the least embarrassing not so much for the choices that we consider wrong, such as - for example - the one announced a few days ago of a new wave of privatizations and sales, but because it does not make any strategic choice. And at the lowest moment of the crisis is the worst choice: to choose to wait for the crushing mechanism of economic liberalism to take its course, hoping that the economic cycle will recover, hoping that the timid signs of recovery that appear in some areas of Europe can also lap and intercept Italy. Faced with this passive and waiting choice, spare us at least the mantra we have heard in these days that "2014 will be the year of recovery"; you have already said so for too long. An empty financial like this is the total surrender of politics to the economy, the admission by the ruling class that ruled our country of its failure, the inability to intervene to regulate the market and direct it; a total surrender of politics to the economy. It should not surprise the anger and disappointment of citizens towards politics, the growing gap between citizens and institutions: it is precisely linked to this inability to decide, to act, not to assume their responsibilities. Other than recovery; so they will count only rubble. And this deresponsibility is not unlike that of those who see the fault of our evils only in Europe, in the euro, in austerity policies. We strongly oppose austerity and austerity policies, but we also support the European political forces which are working to counter and reverse austerity in order to impose a social compact on Europe. It was precisely the framework of austerity and rigour that could and had to push us in the direction of rethinking a model of development. In recent years, unsustainable cuts have been made to the social state in order to protect a family capitalism unable to renew itself, which has turned to the public only to suck resources and maintain the old privileges. On the other hand, innovation and the modernisation of the country must be the right path. To get out of the crisis we need clear measures that can shift resources from annuities to productive activities; we need to tax more, in line with other countries, financial annuities and assets and tax work and business. It is necessary to make it easier to do business, to simplify the tax system: for example, the State could send pre-filled tax returns to employees every year, as is the case in other parts of Europe. We need to lower the tax burden on low income from work and business; we need the State to support start-ups, providing tax and regulatory facilities, a constant support to network precisely to create and facilitate districts; we need the creativity of this country, which is one of our resources, to get back on track and be encouraged. This law of stability, on the other hand, only impoverishes it. Everyone, starting with young people who want to change more than anyone else and stop hearing that the only solution is to emigrate abroad, must be able to feel that the state is at its side to support innovation. We do not like to be the Cassandres of politics, but we had said that the linear cuts made by previous governments in all areas would undermine the rights to the care and health of citizens, and now the damage is evident to everyone. It is urgent to restore the main national funds for social policies, precisely in order to implement those essential levels of assistance provided for by Law No 328 of 8 November 2000. We ask that the introduction of new health tickets and a remodulation of the ticket policy, which are a real increase for the middle-low income groups, be avoided for 2014. We have reached a point where in the areas of social policies, health and personal services, it is no longer possible to cut down; any further cuts would mean the destruction of essential services. This is not what we say: the municipalities, the regions, who are in great difficulty, and even those mayors and presidents of the Region who in these days are in absolute embarrassment, because many of them are an expression of the parties that support this government that is putting them on their knees, exposing them to the anger of the citizens. The linear cuts have shown the inability of the so-called technical ministers to enter into the substance of expenditure, to break down the mechanisms of power that prevent more effective management of expenditure. We need the same resources to spend better, to cut corruption, customerism and waste and to direct spending towards sectors where there are multiplier effects for the economy. We had said, in recent years, that privatising public water companies, such as energy or public transport - and I remember that Left Ecology and Freedom in Florence is in the opposition of Mayor Renzi precisely against the choice made by that administration to privatise the public transport company - would not have led to greater efficiency nor to benefits for the community, but only to the privatization of profits. Now, as expected, the increase in water tariffs forces us to try hard but necessary to chase the repubblization also in Italy, as they have already done large cities abroad. We need an extraordinary plan to combat tax evasion, starting to give back to the Finance Guard the resources needed to strengthen instruments and bodies. Instead, this Government proposes to sell off, at the lowest moment of the crisis, strategic companies such as SACE, Fincantieri, ENI, Grandi Stazione and STM. It is the usual Italian solution: instead of making the system more efficient or cutting unnecessary costs and privileges the strong points of our economy are sold, postponing the problem and making it weigh the cost on future generations. That extraordinary plan for work should be able to create 300,000 jobs in three years through the renovation and safety of public buildings, in the renewable energy sector, in the hydrogeological system, in the enhancement of cultural heritage and artistic heritage, in services to the person and education. This intervention would bring 2 billion tax revenue. The blocking of public employee contracts and the blocking of turnover in the public employment for the next few years is destined to produce precariousness and poverty, the same poverty that still threatens the many exodus, a problem still open and that is one of the biggest shames of this country. We are going to introduce a pilot project for the experimentation of forms of citizenship income, as well as we propose to cut and rationalise defense expenses, as well as to cut expenditure on the production of F35, warships and FREMM frigates. And how much longer, in this country, do we have to wait to save those 450 million euros, which is how much each year the financing of the military mission in Afghanistan, and instead allocate resources to development cooperation projects to bring us closer to the commitments made by our country in the UN and OECD? We propose to invest 3 billion in research and innovation over the next three years and to make 4 billion available to support framework programmes for the development of the industrial system: we cannot understand why every time we talk about research we lack resources. It is not acceptable that once again the amendment for the stabilisation of researchers, which has been precarious for more than twenty years, has been rejected. There is much talk of the German model, which is a model that has invested in research, technology, quality, and above all on education. Let us then try to follow that example: we invest in the right to study; we invest in school and university construction and in the university's ordinary funding fund. Yesterday was the Day against violence against women, and perhaps a concrete signal to make the Government feel its presence would have been financial seriously, as so many amendments have asked, the national fund against violence against women that is really very narrow. I should like to conclude by reminding you that once again we have a defeat, yet again, on the amendment on lyrical bodies, that which we discussed at the time of the decree on culture and then of the decree on public administration, which provides for the possibility of not creating redundancies and above all of creating stability in work. On the other hand, once again a widely accepted amendment has been rejected. We can only say that it is now clear to everyone that what we are discussing today, which should be the law of stability, clearly has the task of stabilizing precariousness and layoffs. The Government will be strongly responsible for this. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u85	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u86	Mr President, I too will limit my speech a great deal. I would just like to remind you of one fact. At the beginning of May, the President of the Council, responding to the conductor of a television broadcast on RAI 3 asking him "Promise that this time there will be no cuts for culture, school and research?" I take the commitment: if there are any cuts I resign. It will be that sitting on the white chair, perhaps, gave the idea of being on Mars and talking to the Martians who would not have remembered these words, it will be that the deep joy for the received confidence, and therefore the euphoric state, have led, perhaps, our President to overspeak, it will be that the President lied knowing to lie, in any case we are here today to remind the President of the Council Read his words and the commitment made in front of millions of Italians. Since we are all anxiously waiting for this major amendment, which will bring very small things (and, therefore, it is already an oxymoron in its very essence), then he has the time - and I am sure that, if he wants, there is time - to try to keep this promise, we reserve the right to await the maxi amendment and, if the President-in-Office of the Council had forgotten his promise, to remind him then in a much more grinous way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u87	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u88	Mr President, I come from Sicily, indeed from the southernmost province of the whole country. You think, Mr President, that it is 100 kilometers south of the parallel of Tunis, so much so that it seems to me Padania the same Tunis. Well, I believe that this distance is taken not only geographically but also from the point of view of the issues that the bill of stability we are discussing today is dealing with. It's a non-economic distance. Of course! In any part of our nation any citizen is absolutely aware that we act in a system of economic constraints, in a wider system of compliance with norms and pacts. But the law of stability can and must be, including multiannual programming, at least the place where we begin to identify what strategies are. Not necessarily what is strategy, idea, perspective, desire to grow, to exist, to develop, must have a financial envelope. It seems to us, however, that in this draft law of stability there is even a lack of desire to identify what can be a way out of what the SVIMEZ calls the galloping desertification of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. It even seems that that effort, which is also moral, is lacking to say: these are the lines that we identify for growth. The southern part of our country is stuck right inside that Mediterranean that from all the observers, also international, and also from the other Continents is considered as the center of the increase of the world trade. South-East Asia, India and China have now found the Suez Canal as a landing place for their productions compared to distribution in Europe and Africa. We, infiltrated as we are in the Mediterranean Sea, cannot grasp, even from the point of view of logistics, the great opportunities that the new socio-economic system indicates and geopolitics is drawing. So, to the people of the South, but above all to the young people of the South, what perspective are we giving? Mr President, if we do not manage to keep the new generations, the existing intelligences anchored in our territory, because we force them (in the study phase and especially in the one in which those same studies are put on the income) to leave the Mezzogiorno of Italy, we will have no prospects. The development of the total territory of Italy passes through the valorization of the culture and the formation of a ruling class that must be able to remain on the territory. I am truly sorry that this night the debate was interrupted in the 5th standing Commission, where we have tried to work very seriously. To the friends who held back yesterday to hold longer debates, perhaps in a form of obstruction compared to parliamentary activity, I want to say that in the end they prevented Members (each of us is a Member representing the nation) from deepening these issues. Friends of the League, you have also refrained from dealing with the amendments that concerned the North or the South, but how many times have we turned against the ANAS, the State Railways and many other structures - which are then the real holders of the money of the State - that invest only from Rome up, that have only development plans that concern that geographical part of the Country? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. I'm finishing, Mr. President. The enormous disparity that we pay in infrastructure, life and university education is an inequality that we fight against. And we would have liked it to be dealt with in the strategy of the stability bill today when we examine it. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u89	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Senator Giovanni Mauro for having cleared Padania in this Chamber as well. I believe that never as in this period are so many people present in the government that they put those who are at home in the condition of not being absolutely confident. Stability is undoubtedly the most popular word of all members of the Government. In fact, there is no member of the Commission who does not call on you loudly, confidently and confidently that a dose of greater stability will trigger that long-awaited economic recovery. There is no day, Mr President, that the European Union does not remember from far away Brussels how strategic Italy's political serenity is that allows the country to undertake the great reforms so desired; Europe itself, however, forgets to have contributed to the recession in the middle of the continent with the policies of fiscal rigour, today denied even by the same supporters. In this context, the key measure of the financial planning of this country arrives in the Chamber and could not, Mr President, but be called the law of stability. Its name, however, betrays its history, its parliamentary process and, above all, its content. For more information, please ask my colleagues in the Budget Committee and I, on behalf of my Group, thank our colleague Mr Comaroli for working to improve the measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]] We found ourselves alone to be the undefended opponents of this text that did not see us at all satisfied. Therefore, the approach of the text, as we know it today, recalls much more the odyssey of mythological memory than a peaceful parliamentary debate, as President Letta himself had hoped. Moreover, what to expect is different from a document which, since its inception, had already been denied even by the European Union itself, faithful and servile ally of the Monti Government before and that Read then, how insufficient and regressive? Of course, nothing good, Mr President. However, if it goes wrong in its manner, it is even worse in its content, ladies and gentlemen. Premier Letta had proudly defined it as a measure that does not increase taxes on Italians, and instead it provides for a greater burden on the owners of house and real estate, finally sinking an entire section, with a real estate tax that in 2014 will increase further. The draft stability law under consideration allocates EUR 200 million to socially useless workers in Naples, Palermo and Reggio Calabria. This figure, however, leaves us amazed: why not, Mr President, allocate EUR 100 million also to socially useless workers in Puglia or Basilicata? Maybe these are B-series? It is known that the investment of resources in this direction helps to support the economic recovery and increases the employment level of the country; it is more clear that they serve to glean the thousands of votes able to guarantee the elected of turn the perpetuation of these financings in rain. Furthermore, Mr President, do we not forget yet another candy for the banks? You had already provided benefits and benefits in their favour in the initial version of the measure, but then, taken from an infatuation worthy of 15-year-old boyfriends, you thought well to bring another gift to the credit institutions, granting them tax aid. Mr President, it is true that the first love is never forgotten. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Dear colleague Mauro, I would even close the Suez Canal, because from there comes a lot of stuff from China and does not pass our production, is firm. From that blessed Suez Canal we no longer carry a product anywhere. Instead, in this financial (let's still call it the old way) you forgot about the unemployed in the North, to do something really concrete in relation to the issues related to gambling; you forgot to explain to entrepreneurs who commit suicide for taxes what you want to do to lower an unworthy tax burden of a country that can be defined as such. You have forgotten the manufacturing and the farmers; you have failed to explain to our young graduates why they should not buy a plane ticket to try their luck in a meritorious country and stay in this country. You forgot to tell us what's going on, that is, the integration fund will end. You forgot to make a list of waste and to have it certified by the Ministry of Economics and Finance. In conclusion, with regard to the issues of work, small and medium-sized enterprises, recovery, production, in this bill of stability you are firm, like dwarfs in the garden spying on an economic recovery which, precisely because you are dwarfs, you cannot even see. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u91	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u92	Mr President, the candidate for the next Democratic Party primary elections, Mayor Renzi, said that the Senate must be abolished. It seems to me that the way in which we are dealing with the debate on this law of stability is right to him. Frankly, in fact, Mr President, there is something in our regulations and our behaviours - and this, regardless of the quality of the people who have devoted themselves to this issue, and I thank you - that does not work, if we examine a measure for a month and we are here to discuss without knowing what we are going to vote on in a few hours' time. I have to say, we don't look good, we make it bad. Having said that, I only focus on one point, which I think is not secondary. Our country isn't doing well economically. It's not moving on. We are part of the European Union. When one company is not well there are usually two possibilities: one is the controlled administration and the other is a restructuring project. The restructuring plan consists of submitting to creditors the closure of an installation, or the purchase of a patent or an investment to obtain a boost. If those who submit the project are credible, it may be that creditors trust them, perhaps by funding them and allowing them to turn. Being subject to controlled administration means someone controls you and if you spend a euro you have to say where you get it, otherwise they block you. With regard to the European Union, years ago, France and Germany requested, on the basis of a project, that the 3% limit be exceeded in the debt-to-GDP ratio. It was granted to them. France has used this confidence badly and now finds itself in difficulty enough; Germany has used it well, has gone over, has returned and now things are going well: it has made reforms, among other things under the leadership of Schröder, a socialist, who has presented a programme of great restructuring, even with social sacrifices. We, on the other hand, are on the side of those who have taken over the administration. As soon as we cut a tax or schedule a grocery store, they ask us how we cover that grocery store. So we don't move on. We should renovate our country. Let me give you an example. Starting with the Presidency of the Republic, going down to the smallest Municipality or to the smallest mountain community, we have properties that are the most beautiful, the largest and the most expensive in the world. We should reduce this heritage. All companies resize the back office, but we do exactly the opposite. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). In the last twenty years, since there is the so-called second Republic, all, Presidency of the Council, Ministries, Regions, Municipalities, Provinces (which we want to close), have increased space and staff; yet all companies have the technologies that allow to reduce these back office expenses. Unfortunately, neither in the text we are discussing, nor in what we shall be voting in a few hours' time, is there any prospect of serious restructuring of our country. It is not by chance that the contraction in expenditure is never delegated to a Ministry, but to a commissioner for spending review. Unfortunately, so far they've all failed, and I don't see in perspective that Cottarelli can make it. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u93	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u94	Mr President, the law of stability is a 12 billion maneuver, of which about 7 billion are for new interventions (less revenue and higher expenditure), and about 4 billion for lower expenditure and higher revenue. Therefore, it is a significant economic maneuver and the choices that the Government, in particular, intended to make. I think I can make a broadly positive assessment of many of the choices that have been made; I mention some of them: the increase in stamp tax on financial transactions; taxation on unlocated buildings; a first effort on the tax wedge for both companies and workers (in particular, I note the INAIL reductions); energy restructuring; the IMU for corporate property. Or, the first important choices, after so many years of detention, that concern the great public works: the Adriatic Corridor, the rolling stock, but also the billion of overtaking the Stability Pact allowed the municipalities for the small works, which we need so much. I would also like to recall the effort that President Azzollini used to make to increase the fund for non-self-sufficiency. These are some of the most important results that we think we can include, but I would like to say, on the contrary, that there are also a number of outstanding points, that I want to think they are all on the agenda of the Government and Parliament, so that even the parliamentary work of recent weeks does not simply remain in the news, knowing that rationalization is a path that clearly cannot stop at a stage like that of the law of stability. There is no positive sign, on the contrary, there is a negative sign as regards funds for social policies and young people; there is nothing in fact, that is, no increase, despite a motion voted in this House, in order to combat poverty, and colleagues who have spoken before me do well to recall the dramatic situation of millions of Italians living in an increasingly precarious situation. On the dependent children there are no special signs, if not probably - we hope - the deductions for dependent children on the TRESE (or what will be called the new local tribute); we count at least that the same reductions planned last year are confirmed. There is nothing or almost anything useful for young people, knowing that, waiting for the desired recovery, we cannot think of waiting for an indefinite future to give young people at least some opportunity for work, albeit precarious and temporary. I am thinking of the need to spread the experience of civil service and training internships. There is nothing - and indeed I regret this - to fund researchers more, particularly young researchers in universities. We have done much to bring back the best young people who study and teach abroad, but then we don't find the resources to hold them back. There is still too little for small expenditure; perhaps more could be done to allow the municipalities to derogate from the Stability Pact to a greater extent. I see with difficulty, for example, a strong design for the internationalization of Made in Italy, particularly with regard to agro-food. You will wonder how all this could be done in the absence of resources. It is a legitimate objection, all the more so insofar as we had to deal with the improper and inappropriate boulder of the IMU, which somehow however the Government and also the majority had to suffer, removed even to those who could pay it. With our amendments we have identified reasonable ways to recover resources, which have seen to a large extent - I say this to the Government because there is always time to remedy - a great lack of attention and disillusionment with the proposals put forward. We had, for example, proposed to increase the impact on so-called gold pensions, on significantly high pensions, through a solidarity contribution, which on the contrary will touch only those who have retired - perhaps in part and even in an inappropriate way - with the remuneration mechanism. Perhaps there is something to be done - I say this knowing that the Minister himself has made clear words about this - by courageously reforming tickets in pharmaceuticals, without letting the man of providence, Mr Scissors, replace Ministers who do not seem to have the strength or courage to proceed. We have indicated solutions with regard to pharmaceuticals, measures such as the baptized one "Tobin tax," which is also not considered, and then gambling and so on. In conclusion, there are still, in our opinion, with the amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, large spaces to recover resources to be allocated to growth and equity. I want not only to think but also to believe that the law of stability is only a first step in the important reformist path that I think must accelerate. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u95	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u96	Mr President, at the beginning of the sitting, at the opening of the session, I asked for different working times, not for a matter of belonging to a group. At a time of serious economic crisis such as the current one, I believe it is necessary for the Senate to have an in-depth debate on stability. They are at stake, President, strong interests, citizens' rights, the rights of people who have nothing to do with living. Compared to a bill of stability that introduced restrictions on the revaluation of pensions that I call minimum, up to 3,000 euros, and I think even more than 3,000 as golden pensions, I disagree. Now I have to realize there's no more talk of it because the press tells us. I'm out of my service, and you, President, had to protect her. It is true that I have tabled amendments which are not personal but correspond unanimously to what the Justice Commission had decided. You know better than I, in particular, what is the contribution of the insecure of justice in some judicial offices. Although it has been presented with the same coverage as the past stability, it has been declared inadmissible. Fortunately, I was told that my amendment, in the same terms and with the same words, was made by the government itself. I do not know, Mr President, what I should or should not feel. We will have to see this and therefore, as you can see, this is an unnecessary general discussion. At the same time, I must say to you that, when I trusted the Government, which I reiterated on 2 October, I had faith in the President-in-Office of the Council, who ensured that taxation on the house would be modulated differently and this year the IMU would not be paid. Now, President, can you tell me how I can argue without knowing what happens to the second installment of the IMU? I have to trust what the press is saying for the future, and I have to trust what the press is telling me about this night's change in house taxation. You, Mr President, know better than I do that some municipalities, even large ones, have changed the index by 1.6 only in the last few days and, according to the press, that should be the change. We are debating without being aware of the subject of the debate. Mr President, this is the first time since 2006. Only in the old finances has it happened sometimes that there was no report. President Azzollini said today that they were unable to complete the work. If I had been in his place, I would have said that tomorrow we would vote for Berlusconi's decadence, if that's the problem, and then we would have continued to argue for another ten days. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani]] Otherwise, we will never have the opportunity to know exactly what action is needed. On the tax wedge, what is the intervention? If, on the assumption, ten euros are brought into the pockets of the workers, I will vote against it because it is little, because it is not possible to combat the economic crisis without increasing consumption and to do this we must guarantee the weakest groups. All this, Mr President, I do not know, as you do not know, unless you have had a provisional text. I don't have it. That is the reason why I believe that we will continue with this unnecessary debate, and we will evaluate the individual issues half an hour before we vote yes or no to trust when the text arrives. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Serafini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u97	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u98	Mr President, I will take much less time than the five minutes at my disposal. Colleagues, apart from the fact that reasoning about one of the fundamental laws of the State with a semi-desert Chamber is truly humiliating and testifies how we elected have at heart the country, I want to reiterate first of all that the procedures by which we arrive at this act are absolutely unacceptable. Once again Parliament is prevented and, therefore, the people are able to intervene on what really determines the feeling and hope of all of us in the coming months and years. Having said that, not wanting to go into the matter, because there are too many absurdities, infamies and small things that this law of stability presents, I simply want to remember the words of a person that so many should still have in mind today: When people who work are asked for sacrifices, a great consensus, a great political credibility and the ability to strike exodus and intolerable privileges are needed. You who are the expression of the worst partyocracy; remember that these words have been spoken by Enrico Berlinguer. [[Comments of Senator Buemi]] I'm glad to hear reactions. Ask yourselves in conscience if we have done our utmost to break down the privileges which the country still has in its small part and which, if suppressed, could be again resources to solve the problems of citizens, taxpayers, people who work and who are offended by the behaviour of this Parliament and, even more so, of this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u99	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no one would have imagined, on 16 November 2011, the date of the inauguration of the Monti Government, put in place by the President of the Republic with meticulous care and emphasis to save Italy, which after two years our The country would have been in the disastrous economic and financial condition in which it finds itself today. I believe that the debate on the law of stability, even though it is compressed, is the right opportunity to assess the results achieved. There are objective parameters that are able to make everything clear and unambiguous. In November 2011, the Italian public debt was 1,905 billion euros, as certified by the Bank of Italy on 15 January 2012 in its bulletin. Today the public debt certified on 13 November 2013 also of the Bank of Italy, referred to the month of September, is of 2,068 billion euros, after that in June it has touched 2,076 billion euros. Given that in these two years the public debt has increased to an average of 7-8 billion per month, adding to what matured 15-16 billion for the months of October and November, in the last two years the public debt has risen by about 180 billion euros: a good result after two years of tears and blood. GDP in 2011 grew by 0.4 percent compared to 2010, in 2012 by -2.3 percent compared to 2011 and in 2013 -1.9 percent compared to 2012: 65 billion GDP lost in two years. Unemployment was 9.6 percent in 2011; in 2013, in September, we are at 12.5 and at the end of the year it will reach 13 percent. The tax burden in 2011 was 42.5 percent, today we are 44.3 percent. Although primary government expenditure remained broadly unchanged in nominal terms, the ratio of government debt to GDP increased by 13 points and rose from 120% to 133.7 percent as expected at the end of the year. These are the figures of the economic disaster that has taken place over the last two years. It is clear that policies that are operated exclusively on the basis of wild taxation have led to a heavy recession. The written action to increase taxation indiscriminately has proved useless and counterproductive. In these two years the cuts in public spending have been fictitious and ludicrous, much less you have acted to eliminate waste, maliciousness and corruption, because we have to tell us: in the field of public spending they hide power, clientele and consent, to which it is difficult to give up these times. You've wasted two years. Compared to this increasingly dramatic and progressively worsening situation, the Government continues to remain inert. The 2014 law of stability that we are discussing could be an opportunity to give a turning point, to give a shock, as had been said, to the economy, while it is yet another missed opportunity. I do not know what you are going to do in Brussels with this law, which would be more correct to call a thousand marchettes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Small things can fit in a law, but let's put them in other specific laws, let's go to Brussels with our precise targets of debt containment and public finance. These days I have not heard a party, a union, a trade association, a newspaper, a citizen express a positive opinion on this bill. In the economic context, it is clear, there are only higher revenues: 7 billion in 2014, 16 billion in 2015, 19 billion in 2016, and it is all underestimated, because then the higher revenues will be more. On the other hand, there was a need for strong cuts in public expenditure to cover lower taxes and taxes on labour and businesses. Less taxes boost competitiveness and demand at the same time. It is necessary to improve the competitiveness of companies by lowering the cost of labour per unit of product compared to other European countries in order to intercept at least the demand that comes from abroad, because in Italy everything is still. Domestic demand had to be supported, with more money in paychecks: 1.5 billion are laughable. On the other hand, you have increased VAT, leading to a reduction in consumption and revenue: VAT revenues, despite the increase in the rate, have decreased, with a substantial loss of €30 billion in terms of lower overall revenue. The spending review is still on the pole. Before we paid Commissioner Enrico Bondi and now Commissioner Carlo Cottarelli, but how, where and when to cut there is no trace. Even the reform of the Provinces has not been successful, despite the fact that you have been talking about it for years. We asked you to raise the area to 12,000 euros for all low-income categories (employees, pensioners, self-employed), because you can't call to pay taxes who earns 650 euros per month. You said no. We asked you to eliminate the IMU on the first house, on the land, on the agricultural buildings and on those in which the productive activities are carried out: how does a company pay the IMU on the building where it works, if it does not work, since the production of thousands of farms is stopped? You have given us a new tax, the IUC, which will lead to a higher levy of 10 billion: you will see that under regime, compared to the 20 billion paid in 2013 net of the tax on the first house, we will reach 30 billion. It was necessary to support construction, which is a driving sector, around which there are about 37-38 other side activities: this sector is being massacred instead. Structural reforms were needed to improve the competitiveness of the system: no reform has been made. The government continues to live on the day, continues to float on the problems, continues - and this irritates - to play with communication, through press conferences, messages and proclamations, which do nothing but irritate the people, families and businesses that find themselves fighting every day a thousand and more insurmountable difficulties. At least have the decency to keep quiet for a while. Finally, I would like to ask you: how are we going to reduce public debt in the relevant proportions imposed by the fiscal compact since 2015? When are we gonna think about this next year? We're not really there. We had expressed reservations about this measure since its presentation. In the Commission, we had hoped to improve it and, even if it did not complete its procedure, the measure has become much worse, enriching itself with those brands at the limit of provocation. In this regard, allow me to refer, by way of example, to the proposal contained in one of the sub-amendments to the text of the law. Public bodies in Calabria are expected to be allowed to employ workers from 1 January 2014, even in supernumerary positions, with an indefinite contract: therefore, while we have to cut public spending, we continue to hire people who do not serve. It is still expected, always with reference to the public bodies in Calabria, the concession of a sum of 40,000 million euros in case of voluntary resignation submitted by December 31, 2013 for workers who have exceeded 60 years of age: but the workers are all equal, whether they live in Calabria, Sicily, Marche or Tuscany. Although we do not know the final text that will be put to the vote in this House, the judgment on this measure is highly negative and will hardly be able to have our support. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u101	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u102	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, this is the first sitting of this House in which I speak as a member of the new Parliamentary Group in Forza Italia. I must say, Mr President, that I was hoping that I would be able to speak with a very different mood. I was hoping to intervene with a proactive attitude in the direction of a proper competition for the identification in the Senate Chamber of a path that would be strengthened even more in terms of planning, in order to give a reassuring perspective to the country. I realize, however, that this is not the case. So, of course, I am speaking, but very ill-willed, I am speaking out of anger, partly because, Mr President, your task is not entirely grateful: an empty Chamber, an asphyxiating debate in time but not in content, which I appreciated, which would have deserved a very different kind of approach in terms of substance and method. Mr President, in a few days' time I will return to my Apulia, to my Mezzogiorno, to my city, where I try hard, but also with a straight back and with great dignity, to coagulate a political consensus in the knowledge that the legitimacy of those who carry out a popular mandate comes from the people. Well, I will arrive in my land and tell what happened; I will assume some responsibilities and I will necessarily have to attribute other responsibilities to an institutional architecture that makes water from all sides and to an inability, to an inconclusion of political forces that in Italy cannot do what you can do in Germany. In Germany the great coalitions can even do things that smaller coalitions could not have done for the good of the country. We, with the great coalitions, manage to keep the central problems unsolved and we come to discuss a law of stability that is not there. I could say that the judgment is suspended, but I cannot fail to express, in addition to a suspended judgment, that I will be expressing in a complete and serene manner in a few hours' time, after reading the provisions and the diktats that will come from above, my indignation and my regret for the deep wound that is inflicted on parliamentary democracy. I would remind you of the words that the Prime Minister expressed at the time of his inauguration, and also of my strong applause and support: the need never to choke on the parliamentary debate and to limit the intervention of the Government to the greatest possible extent in order to leave room for the contribution, the debate, the formation of a solid and robust thought resulting from the confrontation that is formed in the debate of the Parliamentary Assembly; a debate that is not there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). I will gladly end, dear President, by not taking your time, because I know that you are sitting in the chair of suffering today, so I will also reduce your discomfort. I do not just express my indignation, Mr President, but I express not only my regret and disappointment, but I express the reflection that I think almost unanimously of the trade union forces, the employers' forces, the highest representatives of the productive world of our country have expressed in commenting on this law of stability, echoing - ahinoi - what Commissioner Rehn and the Commission of the European Union have said on a law of stability that does not allow Italy to adequately deal with, unless last-minute amendments, the commitments made. There are no policies for the family and for young people; there is betrayed the principle of support for the university as a training agency and as a motor of social growth of our territory; above all - you will allow me to say - there are no policies for the Mezzogiorno, on the contrary there is a policy against the South, which is written even in the activities of support for the university, which penalize the Mezzogiorno with a turnover and an assumption policy that clearly even more divergences the differences between the North and the South of the country, making demagogic and sterile that refrain, by now tiredly repetitive in the Parliament's classrooms, that does not grow the Country if the South does not grow. We are killing the country, because we kill the South, we kill young people, we do not give prospects of development to our company, we keep unchanged the tax burden and the cost of labour and, last but not least, we fail to introduce ourselves to Europe with our backs straight to ask what we need to ask: a reversal of trend compared to a Europe that probably has an interest in having a weak Italy economically and politically fragile. In this direction, Mr President, my remarks take place and the vote reserves the right to draw on the assessments that will be made by the Government with the maxi amendment, the text of which we do not yet know. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u103	Colleagues, we greet the students of the Istituto comprentico statale - Convenevole da Prato (Po), who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u104	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u105	Mr President, it is clear that the restoration of the 2 billion in the health sector, compared to the tickets, has closed a debate in the bud, in the sense that there is no doubt that this year's health has not had the cuts that have suffered the other years: we are now very large figures (we travel from 20 to 30 billion in cuts in recent years), and that is certainly a reason for satisfaction. However, since it is a restoration, it is quite clear that we are essentially within the framework of what already exists: hence the difficulties we have had. In this respect, I would like to thank first of all my colleagues in the Health Commission, who have worked with the Budget Commission these days in a very real way, I must say, devout, and it is a good example for the institutions, because we have also done it in a very united way, as I thank the valuable work done in an extremely difficult situation by my colleagues in the Budget Commission. We've had a few problems, and I'm just going to mention the headlines, because there really isn't time. The first problem is whether it is possible, in a law of stability that should have a strategic character, to produce some system innovations, not only of a monetary nature. Can we get out of the monetarism we're immersed in? This was the first theme, yet we have faced enormous difficulties, and I address the undersecretary Giorgetti, who is a careful person. On pharmaceuticals we tried to table an amendment, and it seemed that Italy collapsed. I understand the difficulties, we have maintained relations and relations with the pharmaceutical and trade union world, with the regions, but this is a topic to return to: let's at least leave it on the agenda. Let's go back to talking about things that for today are considered taboo and I think instead it is worth it, if we want to produce a system innovation also in relation to the Regions, because the government cannot give itself as a program the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution thinking that it is an act of empire, while it must be built through concrete steps of innovation. The second point is that, unfortunately, it concerns pathological play, i.e. people with pathological gambling addiction. There would have been nothing wrong with investing, compared with a turnover of 80 billion euros, at least a very small part to cure these people. If we look at this year's Sisal budget, we realize that this is the case. The third point is that of resident doctors. We have talked about this and, during the debate on the draft law for the conversion of the so-called Education Decree, an agenda has been adopted in this regard. This year we have resources for 2,000 people, when we know that the need is for 5,000. This means that these kids are likely to have to go abroad. With regard to the fourth point, I would ask for clarification. We have focused on the non-self-sufficiency of the very serious and we have allowed everything to pass. However, the non-self-sufficiency of the very serious is different from the very important fund for the non-self-sufficiency of social policies in the Commission because a person at the last stage of ALS, Alzheimer's or at the last stage of Parkinson's does not need a social worker, but a health worker who assists. This is a point on which I would ask you to have at least some attention. At one point, we were told that there were resources that we had identified in new covers that could not be used: those relating to private university hospitals. I don't even want to get into public-private credit. I don't care about this issue. However, I would like - and I think we owe it to the Italians, as well as to this House - to explain why substantial sums are being invested in this sector and nothing else can be invested on the issues I have just mentioned. I say this with the healthiest intent. I agree very much with the Government and I would like Commissioner Cottarelli, who we will be hearing (unfortunately, not today, because we are called to vote) to join in this order of ideas. I think that health expenditure needs to be retrained. We know that 60% of Italians like public health, but to retrain this expenditure... president. Please conclude. DE BIASI (PD). ...it is necessary to be aware of the operation that I would call a pin out of the system, namely: every euro that is rationalised in health must remain in the health sector, if we want this system to remain public, sustainable, fair and fair. This is a fact, which I believe is not political in colour, but which deeply affects the everyday life, which is the concrete life of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Roman Senators Maurizio, Romano and Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u106	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u107	Mr President, over the last two weeks, the Economic and Budgetary Planning Committee has examined some 3,000 amendments, 281 of which have been tabled by our Group, and has not even finished the work. We are waiting for a giant amendment on which the question of trust will be raised without even knowing what its contents will be. It is now clear that this House does not count for anything anymore. Yet, the bill of stability under consideration draws the future of our country, and the Italians are all anxiously waiting for a real recovery, a reversal of this economic drift that is doing massacres in the North, the South, the Centre. Well, despite the amendments tabled by our Group to meet the real needs of the citizens, although they were proposals which, if approved, would help to alleviate or even resolve some of the daily problems of the citizens, have been rejected or hastily declared inadmissible. As was the case with Amendment 9.8 which I tabled, which stated that the sums planned for the start-up and continuation of private reconstruction work at the Eagle and in the territories affected by the earthquake should not be foreclosed. Well, L'Aquila, in addition to deception and misinformation, has also happened, because the money for private reconstruction has been foreclosed. The first case occurred last March was denounced by an eagle town, Pina Lauria, who chained herself in front of the monument of the fallen. It seems useless for me to continue with this intervention here, today, because we are far from the fallen; we are far away from those who wanted our Republic and our reality; we are far away from the constituent Fathers. We are really doing something serious, we are doing it and we have no shame. So, I refuse to continue the surgery. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u108	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government I speak briefly to express the sharing of the Trentino Tirolese Autonomous Party on the bill of stability for 2014. It is a vote that is absolutely not taken for granted, but rather the result of a close and rigorous confrontation. The Trentino self-governmentists have always said - as Mr Laniece has just said - that they could never vote on a text such as the one initially presented by the Government, which was unconstitutional in our special self-government. We take note of the fact that with the Government there has been a very correct and loyal confrontation, for which I thank, of course, President Letta, the ministers Delrio and Franceschini, the undersecretaries Legnini and Fassina, as well as the rapporteurs and the Presidency of the 5th Permanent Commission, who have shown a great willingness to us senators, but also the new president of the Autonomous Province of Trento in listening to and taking into account our requests, absolutely motivated. We take note of some of the amendments tabled by the Government which, together with others tabled by our Group and accepted, recognise the value of special autonomy. What the government has understood, even after - I repeat - a structured debate, and I hope it understands Parliament as a whole, is that special autonomy is a resource, not a problem, but rather a solution to the problem. Today the last elections in Trentino have decreed a great victory of the coalition that governs it, of the center-left autonomy, and it has also been decreed the doubling of the votes of the autonomyists. This means that this autonomy is well managed and that the initiatives taken and the policy conducted are shared. I welcome some of the speeches contained in both the text of the stability bill and in the amendments tabled by the Government (which I am sure will also be included in the maxi amendment that the Commission is going to table) because they resolve some problems, which we have already raised on other occasions. I am referring, for example, to the restoration of the facilities for small-scale farming, in the case of professional farmers. I have tabled a number of amendments, together with my colleague Mr Berger, for the restoration of facilities for mountain farmers. I hope that the special situation will be taken into account, as the Committee on Agriculture wishes. In the last few days we have also spoken so much about hydrogeological disruption, and so I hope that the House of Deputies, where our Group will resume these amendments, will take into account the particular situation and the fact that these facilities expire on 31 December 2013. I also express satisfaction for the reduction of VAT on social cooperatives, for the regulations for road haulage, for the restoration in part of the dignity of the taxpayer's Guarantor and also for the restoration of the facilities for agricultural diesel. I want to express bitterness only because I could not discuss an amendment proposing the merger of concessions around the Brenner Corridor. Last night we also presented a specific agenda for the Commission's proceedings and I hope that the Government will nevertheless take account of this call for the first time for all the motorway companies of a territory, the institutions and also various political forces together to share a project of strategic importance, not only for our territories, but for the whole nation and for Europe. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u110	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u111	Mr President, representative of the Government, our doubts about the stability bill have increased over time. Over the past few weeks, a balance has been sought between two opposing requirements. On the one hand, there was ours, which was firmly aiming at a development policy which, as is well known, requires a reduction in the tax burden. The majority of Italian economists, also belonging to the left side, now agree on this requirement: I quote for all Tito Boeri and his corrosive interventions on "la Repubblica" precisely in the matter of the law of stability. Added to this are the European Commission's calls for the six points that accompanied the closure of the infringement procedure against Italy, to end with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the OECD and the World Bank, which recently reminded us that the tax burden has reached the highest value in Italy in the whole of Europe, exceeding also the French one, traditionally much heavier. On the other hand, there was the line supported by the left-wing component of the majority, which has never renounced the principle of "tax and spending," a principle that is constantly justified by a need for equity that we do not, of course, underestimate. However, talking about redistribution of income only makes sense if, in the meantime, wealth production grows. If, on the other hand, the overtaxation hinders any possibility of development, then solving the equation of greater social justice becomes not only impossible, but counterproductive: it is transformed into a sort of expropriation to the detriment of the small and middle bourgeoisie, which is composed of those from whom a greater commitment to income production is expected. It is a real short circuit that risks degenerating into a real war between poor and less poor, as Tito Boeri himself denounced in the article I mentioned earlier. The contrast between these two different positions has become particularly evident in the course of the debate on the measure, when any possibility of countering a drift that went in the sense I just said has failed. The examples of what has happened are obvious. I am thinking of the will of revenge that has been expressed against the recent judgment of the Constitutional Court in the matter of pensions: it has been repeated, with a hint of extra cleverness, a scheme that the Court had already judged outside the scope of our Constitution, creating a potential conflict that certainly does not calm down. I would add that, once again, a retroactive rule seeks to affect citizenship rights which should always be safeguarded, because this architrave is the foundation of the rule of law. I do not dwell on the reduction of the tax wedge because of its substantial irrelevance. The bill of stability dilutes in three years resources that the Prodi Government had concentrated in a single year without achieving any acceptable results. What has been given is a small tip that does not solve any fundamental problem and that has fueled the criticism of all the social partners, from the unions to the Confindustria, not only because of the irresosibility of the amount granted (the price of a cup of coffee), but because of the absence of any economic logic underlying it. At least he had put it in some way in relation to underlying productivity, but also this solution seemed too daring to those who, consciously or not, have now rested in the wake of the philosophy of the so-called happy degrowth. But the worst disaster was the taxation of real estate. The new rules are likely to increase the total levy from EUR 24 billion to EUR 30 billion, not to mention the additional resources available to the municipalities: another billion and a half. It will focus on buildings other than the first house: in theory a fair solution, in fact a particularly heavy property tax, while the rest of the financial wealth enjoys lower exemptions and rates. This is the true paradox of the Italian situation vis-à-vis international: in Europe we are now the country that has the highest taxation on real estate - see the recent report of Mediobanca - with the exclusion of France and England, where however the level of services rendered is immeasurably higher than the Italian ones. The situation is paradoxical due to the fact that the real estate sector plays a significant role in the production of GDP. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mandelli, I invite you to conclude. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask that I be able to hand over the text of my speech so that it can be published in the annex to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). However, allow me to make a general reflection on what happened this morning. I am wondering from this morning whether the citizens ask us to have the ability to concentrate the work of Parliament to give a good response to the needs of the country in the matter of economy or if they wait quickly for the decadence of Senator Berlusconi. I personally believe that today we should concentrate on giving answers to the country, which is outside this House and which gave us an effort to get it back on track. For these reasons, everything that has happened this morning does not agree with me at all. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u112	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by quoting an article published yesterday on the "Corriere della Sera" on a new text, a book entitled "If the South dies," by Gian Antonio Stella and Sergio Rizzo, which I quote for a short while to introduce my speech. Say it like this: "Say it: have you given us up in the South?" Have you decided it's not worth saving him? Have you imagined that you might as well let him drift towards an ever more violent, marginal, miserable future? Have you resigned yourself to the impossibility of tearing it from the mafias, the clientele, the political evil? Say it, at least, because the Mezzogiorno is going to disaster. What are the numbers of this disaster? In 2012 the number of deaths exceeded that of the living. In a few years the number of poor has grown by 70 percent. 350,000 families have been flooded by the crisis. GDP, in five years, decreases by as much as 10% in the South. We ask ourselves: what kind of country is it that is resigned to the degradation of a third abundant of its territory? Which country is the one who resigns to neglect one third of its population, one third of its cultural and environmental wealth? Italy must absolutely reopen the issue of the Mezzogiorno. Urgent welfare measures are needed to promote social inclusion and to put an end to growing poverty. There is a need for large investments in large and small infrastructure. It is not about building, as usual, niches of privilege for some areas of the national territory - and I would like to reassure the friends of the League - but about determining a strategy to activate that indispensable social and territorial cohesion. It is a matter of giving back to some millions of Italian citizens the fullness of citizenship, understood as a sum and summary of their participation rights, but also as mobility and use of services. Therefore, the issue of infrastructure becomes fundamental when it comes to anti-crisis strategy, social cohesion, overcoming the gap between the North and the South. In the absence of infrastructure, any form of healthy entrepreneurship in the Mezzogiorno would be penalised: road, motorway and rail connections are essential for connecting to European corridors. Without all this there can be absolutely no growth and recovery. We note that in this law of stability, while we continue rightly - be careful - to invest and have a strategy for the North (for example, the Turin-Lyon corridor, for which we are spending something like 40 billion euros, or investments in the EXPO for about 15 billion euros (because it is the showcase of Italy, and we do well), once again there is no strategic project for the South. We would like to see a strategic project, an idea of development. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. COMPAGNONE (GAL). We have repeatedly opened up credit to this Government and have repeatedly expressed our confidence; we hope to be able to do so again this time. We realize that this is a difficult, complicated moment and that this Government has had little time, but we hope that on this occasion the Government will give us hope: give hope to the South of Italy and to all our citizens so that they can have development. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Di Maggio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u114	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u115	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to close a complex process in this House which has brought to light all the dark lights of a clear political and parliamentary impasse. That is precisely why I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the President of the Budget Commission, who have managed a difficult debate, as well as all the colleagues who have worked in that Commission over the past few weeks with great commitment. The law of stability, with its regulatory scope and its financial commitment, especially in such a complex economic and social phase, has turned into a tangled political arena where, unfortunately, it was not the deepenings, the confrontation or the listening, but many other virtues to have the best. It could have been an opportunity to rebalance the country's balance needle towards virtuous and forward-looking initiatives, putting growth first, with the economic recovery of the entrepreneurial fabric and the reduction of the tax burden on citizens. The premises were, as was the will on our part, that we have literally presided over the Budget Commission in the hope of finding that space necessary to transform a law of stability into a serious and far-sighted program of economic renewal of the country. But in fact - let me say - this project, in which perhaps we all believed, has not yet been carried out or, to put it mildly, has been carried out in part. We cannot hide the fact that we are faced with a paradoxical situation: we do not know the text of the maxi amendment and more than 40% of the proposed amendments set aside by the Budget Commission turns out not to be voted on. On the other hand, in a few hours we will vote for trust. This means that there is no basis for talking about trust in the text, as this is not known to us. The hope is that the Government will be able to collect the work and the contribution that the Commission has made to the text with great attention. Once again, we want to reiterate our support for President Letta, before whom, due to responsibility for the country and for the credibility of parliamentary action, we will not back down. But that is much more than that. I believe that a different organisation of parliamentary activity would have allowed for a definitive and, above all, clear closure of the examination of the text in the Budget Commission, without those superstructures of conditioning and play of weights and counterweights which appear to be dominant elements in this budgetary session. We have seen a certainly not praiseworthy curtain, in which the - so to speak - regulatory phase of the session has been reduced to mere outline, being practically crushed under the weight of interest groups, of the government's amending frenzy and total operational disharmony, so as to create an unmanageable parliamentary impasse. The result? A multiplicity of issues left at the entrance, despite the many ads, and a text whose contents are not clear, although certainly the product is not to be considered completely negative. But we don't want to be dismayed or disillusioned. We want to believe that there will be room for all those issues that have engaged in our debates and discussions in the Commission over the last two weeks, which reflect in part the commitments made by President Letta, to which we fully support and support him, and that we hope - we are sure - they will find room in the document on which we are going to give our trust and which will be further deepened in the House. We do not want to talk about unsatisfied commitments, as some have already stated in these hours; we want to talk about urgency which must continue to be such and not sacrificed on the altar of partisan interests and the play of the balance of the majority groups, because frankly this we can no longer Let's have it. The Italians won't let us! Unfortunately, in the area of taxation and taxation, initiatives are waiting. I refer to the remodulation of the cuts to the tax wedge, in which so much has been said without coming to a clear solution, without neglecting the provisions on the dismantling of the records of Equitalia and those of which we find no trace, such as the decarbonization of the private investments on the side of the infrastructures, also through the use of the tax credit. There were also no decisive interventions on the resource side for measures against hydrogeological failure and monitoring of related activities. Even on the side of the family we missed. These are initiatives that - as you can imagine - cannot be tied to the moods or to the power games of a majority that, in this case, has turned out to be fickle. We believed in broad understanding and believed that they could be an important premise for giving the problems of the country a just location and a just answer and not a mere tool to give strength to partisan interests. We still want to believe that there is another possibility and that the pursuit of the support of one's own interests is only a surpassable parenthesis, perhaps due to the criticalities of the moment. The country and its future, ladies and gentlemen, cannot wait. We cannot once again bind common sense initiatives to the balance of a majority which in some cases struggles to dialogue. We therefore want to reaffirm our trust in the Letta Government also through today's vote: but that is to be understood as a gesture bound to a greater deepening, in the next sessions. May this majority become a more responsible majority from tomorrow! [[Applause from the SCPI Group and the Russian Senator]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u116	Senator Fravezzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u117	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the 5th Commission, I do not deny that, when we started our work, we all had greater expectations, together with the will and the desire to pack a product to be delivered to this House. Despite this and despite (unfortunately) other variables, other constraints of a non-exquisitely economic-financial nature, there was in fact prevented. However, it does not mean that I feel obliged to thank the President, the rapporteurs and the Commissioners, all aware of the situation from which we started and which we had already discussed in this House, on the occasion of the final account for 2012. The budgetary adjustment, however, has been made; the resolution at the DEF provided and provides that today Italy does not start from scratch, but from a really complex situation, with structural limits linked to our debt, with limits linked to the fact that we currently have an objective expenditure of 548.6 billion which perhaps we should examine in its structure to understand, when it comes to shock, what should have been or could actually be done. Here, then, I simply want to point out to my fellow Members that, although the number of missions and programmes has been abolished today, it provides, in addition to the burden of public debt, for financial relations with territorial self-governments, social security policies, school education and economic and financial budgetary policies. These appropriations are therefore earmarked for debt, charges and resources for fiscal federalism. I quote the State's contribution to the financing of health expenditure. There is talk of transfers to social security institutions, the payment of social benefits, resources linked to the functioning of the school sector, the provision of teaching, resources to combat fraud and financial crimes, as well as compensation to concessionaires for the collection of tax refunds. This accounts for around 80% of expenditure concentrated substantially on seven missions. A further 30% is the sum of the appropriations for educational missions, economic and financial policies and budget, social and family rights, Italy in Europe and the world. What I want to say is that much of our spending today is already allocated to certain sectors, many very sensitive, and it becomes difficult - I imagine the difficulty of the Government and Dr. Cottarelli - to succeed in causing a shock, given the commitments entered into that provide for balance of budget, respect for the fiscal compact and the other constraints that we have, at European and international level. This makes us understand how difficult it was to be able to pack the bill of stability and give answers to many expectations. Nevertheless, at least as far as the members of the Commission are concerned, efforts have been made not to exercise "well-being" and not just to ride discontent. At that point, with a great sense of balance, we tried to balance the accounts: that was the objective and probably, if we had been allowed to do so, we would have brought to the Chamber a bill of stability which, however - this must be emphasized - after twelve years reverses a trend, because it is partly expansive. There are, in fact, three billion more spending, although there is a logic of financial compatibility. The budgetary balance objective is reiterated; primary and current government expenditure is reduced in nominal terms. There have been some improvements in employee labour, tax wedges, labour costs for businesses and the relaxation of the Stability Pact, as far as possible. There were a lot of expectations. The country is going through a difficult crisis, which - it is clear - invites everyone to the sense of responsibility, because the economic and financial framework in which we have moved and are moving does not allow us large spaces. Despite this and trusting in the responsibility of many groups, we hope that today we can vote in favour of the confidence and the maxi amendment that the Government will put forward. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u118	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u119	Mr President, it will be as usual for my inability to understand, because I come from the world of work (I have a long experience as a worker) but I really cannot understand this law of stability. The very expression "law of stability" should imply that the measure serves to make the country stable. I really find it hard to understand how a country can be made stable when there is no trace of equity, work, dignity and democracy in this measure. I have tried to ask the Minister present in the Commission some questions about the contracts of solidarity, which from my point of view - and I am convinced that this is the case - could guarantee a bit of serenity to this country. I was told that solidarity contracts are expensive: it's like saying that a parent takes the bread off the table because it's expensive. I really still don't understand. In the law of stability not only there is no trace of this issue, but there is no trace of any attempt to create new employment (and when I talk about employment I mean real work). And not only is there no trace of the will to create work, but there is no trace of the will to defend the work that exists. (At 1.20 p.m.) (Follow Barozzino). I am referring, among many possible examples, to that of the single transport hub: how can we not defend it? In Italy there were factories that produced buses (I know that unfortunately these issues are of little interest) and the Government did nothing to defend this work. Not only that, but it allowed it to relocate to nations where the cost of labor would even appear to be higher. So, I really don't understand how we can talk about the law of stability. Sometimes I hear that we have to make this country productive, but I want to remind you that this country may not be productive because there is no product, because it has stopped investing in technology and innovation. But here you pretend you don't understand, and I'm really sorry about that. Since I do not like to make long monologues, I just want to add that I have heard many times in this House say that anti-politics is moving forward in Italy. Well, I would like to ask you to consider: perhaps anti-politics is moving forward because there is little policy in this House. Politics should really be interested in the problems of citizens. I seriously invite you - and I am addressing Mr Fassina in particular - to see how the world of work is reduced; if you want, let us go together for a walk. I don't know what you mean by work, but for me it means going to a place (working, precisely) and working in serenity, with dignity, trying to build a social fabric, and friendships. The workplace is no longer this: it has become something else, but you know it and maybe pretend you don't know it. You're talking about the law of stability, but I don't think this country can be made stable by this law of stability. I do not think that we should continue to talk about Cassa Integrazione: workers and citizens do not want and do not ask for the Cassa Integrazione, but ask for work, decent work. Unfortunately, there is no record of it in this law and I hope that you do not pretend that you do not understand these things. Here everyone speaks of their own Region; I come from Basilicata, where the only things that are increasing are unemployment and the degradation of the territory. We have now become, at population level, like a neighborhood of Naples: we are just over 550,000 inhabitants. They emigrate between 3,000 and 4,000 young people a year. You're depopulating an entire region, but you're presenting bills like this. I am not used to offending people, because I always have the utmost respect for everyone, but I beg you to have respect for others too, because in this law of stability perhaps a little'respect for others. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u120	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u121	Madam President, representatives of the Government, I would like to thank the few Members who have remained in this Chamber to listen to the speeches in this general debate, in this debate which is debased on the Government's willingness to impose trust. I will speak about the articles of the bill of stability that concern the territory, the environment and the house. On Article 5, under the heading "Measures on the environment and protection of the territory" the Group of the North League cannot fail to note how ridiculous the only €90 million allocated over the three years to finance a plan for the protection and management of water resources and for the purification of water, against which we are under check by the European Union for the many infringements. An average figure of 30 million over the next three years: I want to point out that with 30 million you can't even finance a year of an area plan of a small Italian Province. Assurda is also the total lack of resources for interventions on air quality, which - I would like to remind you and point out - is considered by the Ministry of the Environment a strategic sector on which to invest. It is serious, then, the forecast of a financing of only 180 million euros in the three years 2014-2016, of which only 30 million allocated for the next year, for the reduction of the risk of hydrogeological failure. Yet, in this House as well as in the other House, all Members unanimously approved motions and agendas calling on the Government to allocate a great deal of resources for the transition from the logic of the emergency to that of prevention, in order to reduce the risk of hydrogeological disruption and to carry out land defense works. The resources were actually not lacking, since this law of stability allocates another 340 million euros for Salerno-Reggio Calabria, the eternal unfinished after forty years from the inauguration. The law of stability then allocates 100 million to the socially useful workers, who may become 110 if those of Campania and Sicily will also be added to those of Calabria. A further EUR 150 million is allocated to pay the debts relating to public works created by the Agency for the Promotion and Development of the Mezzogiorno. It is also expected that EUR 1 million will be allocated for grants to non-EU countries. What about our young people? Many other millions of euros are allocated to finance the social card, always for non-EU citizens, when the European Union asked us to extend it to the limit of EU citizens. There are very few investments in the environment. On the other hand, how could this Government do otherwise, which does not allocate resources to young people, who are the main wealth for the development of the country? I remember that youth unemployment has reached 42.5 percent. Absolutely more had to be done for a vulnerable territory such as the Italian one, fragile, that needs works of defense of the soil, involved by landslides, collapses, floods, erosion of the coasts and earthquakes. Over 81 percent of the Italian municipalities - as I say - record the presence of a territory with high hydrogeological risk. In this regard, it is certainly indicative what happened in the Budget Commission about the allocation of the resources necessary to deal with the emergency in Sardinia: with three sessions they were able to find "only" 53 million euros, with a tour match within the resources allocated for the same Sardinia Region. And I'm coming to the whole house taxation thing. I would like to stigmatize the behaviour of the Government, which only yesterday, at 6 p.m. (even if only at 7 p.m. we had the text physically in hand), tabled the amendments referring to five articles of the stability bill for the reformulation of the taxation of buildings. It was supposed to be five articles, but then we found out it was seven. We were told, among other things, that with respect to the text presented on 21 October the amendments would be highlighted, while we found that other amendments were contained in the texts delivered. In addition, after months of talk about overcoming the TARES and the service tax, since October 21 we started talking about TRISE, but only last night we found that the TRISE was eaten by another beast: the IUC. This morning I was talking to a friend, who was convinced that IUC was my new dog, except to explain to him that it was a new single municipal tax. With the IUC the hated IMU on the first house and the old TARES come out of the door to come back together from the window under another name. And precisely with reference to the IUC, I would like to point out that we consider TASI a real asset: we believe that it is unconstitutional, because it is a heavy stag that, in addition to re-introduce surreptitiously the IMU on the first house, will also have to be paid by tenants for rent. We also consider that the deductions on corporate income in relation to the payment of the IMU to the corporate sheds are insufficient. In August, the government reassured companies that the deduction of the IMU from the sheds would be 50%. In fact, then we did not intervene in this direction: we now do so in the law of stability, but to the extent of 20%. Unwitting promises. Even for the agricultural sector, on rural buildings and on agricultural land there are many uncertainties: in particular, it is only possible for the municipalities to grant reductions in relation to rural buildings intended for primary housing (in this regard we would like to see the municipalities, because if they set exemptions or reductions they will still be in difficulties for their budgets). The reform of the taxation of real estate had even been promised by Minister Saccomanni in May and June; we were told that it would be done by August. In fact, on 31 August we learned only of the elimination of the first installment on the first house, which moreover - let us emphasize - has no cover because the dealers of the gambling rooms did not adhere to that transaction. I would like to remind you that almost EUR 400 million is missing to cover that cancellation of the instalment on the first house, which will trigger the safeguard clause and therefore still increase the advance IRES and IRAP on companies. There's still nothing on the second instalment. Now we are trying to impose the renovation of buildings without debate: we believe it to be a forced force, a great mistake. The rush, dear government, is a bad counselor. I want to remember the TARES, introduced by the Monti Government. At the beginning of the year, president. You have to finish, Senator Arrigoni. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). ...there was the possibility to postpone it, instead you wanted to apply it, and this was yet another cleaver who brought traders and families to their knees. The League obviously disagrees with this law of stability. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u122	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, re-equipping of the criteria for calculating the wear and tear rate for businesses and consumers, correcting the wear and tear thresholds, the southern question, the money from the Bridge (i.e. the large infrastructure, where they have ended up and where they will end up): these are not matters of interest to the Government. The colleague of the Left, Ecology and Freedom, is right, with the greatest respect I have for all those present, and I have made a great reflection on the words equity and democracy. Hearing about democracy reminded me of a passage from the Bible. I remember that only once in the Bible is democracy mentioned, that is, when the people were given the power to choose between Barabbas and Jesus Christ: they sent Jesus Christ on the cross, and Barabbas saved him. Now, I don't mean that we are against democracy, but that there is a lot of confusion in democracy right now. Members of the 5 Star Movement are right when they think that there should be no right-wing or left-wing sides in this Parliament, in the interests of the country and in the interests of the citizens, but there should be convergences that should lead to the growth of the country, to the creation of a dialectic within Parliament that can improve the law of stability, that is, the one that should be the future and the perspective of this country, but there is no interest on the part of the Government in having a debate on this issue. I therefore ask myself a question, President and representatives of the Government, which you are talking about democracy, fairness, justice and broken rules: but what are the broken rules? That within a Parliament 62 senators belonging to a Group called Forza Italia have 58 seconds each to speak? Do we want to talk 58 seconds about re-equipping the criteria for calculating the wear rate? Do we want to talk about the Bank of Italy that has been privatised and that Government or Ministry is representative of a Bank of Italy that should be of the State and instead is private? What do we want to talk about in this House? Do we want to talk about what our fathers taught us? This room should be a forum for debate, for debate, for dialectic; instead, there is no dialectic: there is only someone who says that in the interest of the country we must vote immediately on this law of stability and does not realize that it is the first one to break the rules because the first thing he should do is resign and ask the government to do a reshuffle and review also its position within a government that is no longer what was created for the broad understanding and in the interest of the country. It is a fringe that no longer represents the PdL that had given rise to the Government of broad understanding. Common sense should have led the members of that fringe to resign immediately and demand confidence in a new political position. Mr President (I am addressing you, because the Government is not interested in hearing us), for the bridge over the Strait of Messina we have a penalty of EUR 700 million; if we add the 400 million that we have spent we reach EUR 1 100 million. The total cost for the State to carry out that work was 1,500 million, compared to a total cost of the work of 8 billion euros. We didn't want to do it? Let's invest them at least to give support to the South, which has lost so much in favor of a central government, to realize the necessary infrastructure to allow the people to travel in tranquility and serenity.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u124	You should finish, Senator Scilypoti.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u125	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I will conclude by saying to Minister Saccomanni: Minister, but do you know - and you will surely know - that the Bank of Italy is private? Why don't you make a law to give back to the Italians the Bank of Italy and monetary sovereignty? Through monetary sovereignty you could realize what you plan to achieve by taxing the Italian people! Madam President, a 500 euro banknote has a cost of 20 cents, and 498 go to the coffers of private bankers. Saccomanni knows something about this: come to the Chamber and explain why the Bank of Italy must be bankers and not Italians. The Bank of Italy should protect the interests of Italians, and in particular the southern ones, who paid through the Banco di Napoli and Banco di Sicilia a penalty consisting in the fact that they can no longer beat money in favour of all Italians: instead this favor was done to bankers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we should be more responsible and start using the right words at the right time, understanding the true meaning of words and not demagogy. [[Applause from Senator Zanettin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u126	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u127	Madam President, I would like to begin by sincerely thanking the President of the Commission for the Azzollini budget, the two rapporteurs in the Commission, Senator Santini and Senator D'Alì, and all the colleagues in the Committee on Budgets. I do not share what some Members have said about the role played by the Budget Committee and the role played by this Senate. On the contrary, I think that a great deal has been done and I should like to point out that the deadline for tabling amendments to the Budget Committee was set for 9 November and we began the examination of the amendments - I remember that there were 3 000 - on 12 November: well, it has been two weeks, in which the patient work of the Budget Commission together with the Government has produced some significant improvements to the Stability Act. These results have already been highlighted by other Members, but I would like to remind you of the most important ones, and above all I would remind you of some of them which have passed more silently, which are precisely the result of the parliamentary improvement of this law. The most important ones concern the interventions in favour of Sardinia, so affected by this very recent disaster, for which approximately 100 million euros have been allocated in two years and the intervention on the tax wedge, whose significance is now certainly more incisive because, having been reduced the audience of the beneficiaries and concentrated the intervention on the lowest incomes, we will have that citizens with an income between 15,000 and 20,000 euros per year will be able to benefit from a wedge of 225 euros. I think this is an intervention that helps consumption to restart and will certainly help the economic system. There is also intervention on the credit guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, research projects and household loans, which will take an important multiplier that will give access to credit for several billion euros. Another important intervention is the one for serious and serious non-self-sufficiency, the fund of which has been restored and increased by EUR 75 million. These are the most important speeches that have so much been talked about, together with the intervention on the house, of which, unfortunately, we have not been able to discuss in the Commission but on which the rapporteurs have reached an agreement which has been deposited. I would like to point out that we have not been able to conclude the debate in the Commission because, at some point, from the constructive confrontation to which we started, which has allowed all these improvements and the approval of other issues, perhaps less important medialy but nevertheless important, has gone to a paralysing obstructionism.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u128	But where? Where? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, let Senator Chiavaroli continue. CHIAVAROLI (NCD). ...of which President Azzollini had to take note. I should also like to mention other amendments tabled by Members of this House, in particular by the Group of which I am a member. There is one very important past under silence that concerns the captains of port, for which, for the first time, has been inserted a permanent authorization of expense, that I hope will be increased in the next few years, that it will put them in condition to carry out their job. It is a work at this crucial moment, especially for the control of our coasts, with all the problems that have been at the forefront of the news. I would like to thank all the young people who do this work daily and also put their lives in danger in order to save others. I have also heard that there are no interventions for the South. There's, for example, one... Too many! CHIAVAROLI (NCD). ...small, probably, but significant that allows to complete the metanization of Cilento, begun tens of years ago, with an intervention of the Ministry of Economic Development that will finance the conclusion of this important work. A further intervention was introduced at the parliamentary initiative of our Group and concerns the refinancing of the Integration Fund by way of derogation of 30 million euros in the fisheries sector. Well, I think that dedicating our work to the resolution of great knots but also committing ourselves to giving these small answers has not been wasted at all. Of course, there are still open issues, more important issues. Some of us politically very important. I would like to speak here today of a knot that is still open, and that is what concerns maritime property. The subject of maritime property has been subjected to a misleading media debate, because no one wants to sell our beaches. Putting the theme of maritime property, we want to provide an answer to those who have made our beaches unique in the world. Our beaches are unique in the world because small entrepreneurs - very often family businesses - have invested in them. Now, however, a Community directive is in danger of frustrating all this work. [[Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] We wanted to provide a response to these operators by passing from the maritime property to the state property available the now urbanized part, on which they insist the investments of these operators, of which it is right that the State can have, if it wants. Moreover, we proposed, for the part of the coast, to remain in the system of concessions, giving a right of option to those who were to acquire the part of the property available. That was our proposal, on which we could not reach an agreement. We do not want to reopen the delegation law on this issue because, in our view, delegation does not go in the right direction. Therefore, this remains one of the key issues to be resolved. Moreover, it brings great resources into the state's coffers, which could be used to reduce debt or to finance investments in the tourism sector or for both; I repeat, this operation could bring several billion euros into the state's coffers. So, this is one of the open themes. I do not know whether it will be able to find its place in the debate in the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u129	Please conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u130	CHIAVAROLI (NCD). I hope, however, that this issue will be addressed. In conclusion, I would like to stress that very fruitful work has been done; there is still a lot to be done, but the path of the bill of stability is still long. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u131	Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the statements made by the previous senators when they spoke of a lack of respect for Italian citizens. That is what is provided for in the law of stability: there is no respect for Italian citizens. For some years now we have called it the law of stability instead of calling it financial: it is a word of positive sense but it becomes only a media placebo, just like the measures provided for in the measure that we are examining, or that we have not examined, because we have not had the chance, given what will happen in the afternoon. What is, or rather, what should the law of stability be? It should be the main legislation provided for by the Italian law to regulate the economic life of the country (repeat, the economic life of the country). Let's get into it specifically. Italy case: more than 6 million people without work; 9,563,000 people living below the poverty line; 4 million citizens who can no longer even feed themselves; 1,224,000 pensioners receiving income below 500 euros, followed by cash-integrated, precarious and exodus. Between 2012 and 2014 the contraction in consumption of Italian households, due to the non-existent income support and the total absence of serious economic policies and worthy of an advanced action, will amount to about 60 billion euros. The consequences of all this will be a contraction in the purchasing power of families, a reduction in domestic demand and therefore a decline in economic activity: a disaster! Economic life and Italian stability are a heap of rubble. So, what does the government do? On the one hand, with the bill of stability affects the weakest citizen and companies not providing substantial interventions; on the other, it provides a disastrous and devastating plan, called Destinazione Italia (in fact, better to say, Devasta Italia or Svuta Italia), which definitively affects the economic recovery of our country and at the same time plans its sale. It is the case that the Italian Government tells all Italian citizens the truth, that the sales have begun: Italy is on sale, indeed in sale. Who gave the government permission to do all this? The goods are citizens! The 5 Star Movement for several months calls for immediate solutions for the Italian economy and disaster. We call for citizenship income, the abolition of IRAP and all the other solutions provided for in our amendments to the stability bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u133	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zanettin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u134	Madam President, this bill of stability - alas, Deputy Minister Fassina - appears dramatically far from the deep reality of our country. In words, everyone says that they want to implement a development policy, which, however, is not achieved by spending laws and new taxes, as this Government continues to do, but by laying down the conditions for companies to prosper. We must all be aware that wealth is not created by bureaucrats and politicians; only businesses and self-employment create new wealth, which can then be redistributed to the weakest. There is therefore an abysmal gap between what we are discussing today and the needs of the Italian productive world, the people of VAT matches, mainly made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, who still (who knows how much) survive among a thousand sacrifices. What does this bill of stability provide for them? Alas, I would say nothing! I come from a region, Veneto, where we observe daily, with bitterness and discouragement, that many, too many, decide to expatriate in search of a normal working environment, where the tax does not claim a percentage higher than 30% of the income, where the bureaucracy is efficient and collaborative, where the merit and the talent are really valued. Businesses are leaving, capital is leaving, the best young graduates are leaving, even freelancers and self-employed people are leaving. I wonder how we can think of an economic recovery if politics only thinks of new taxes and does not cut spending, as is the case with this bill of stability. If this country has a real hope of returning to growth and of saving itself from the catastrophe that looms, this can only come, in my opinion, from a shock, indeed I would say better from a liberal and liberal electroshock. I will try to make some rather radical proposals, knowing well that they will not be shared in this House, as they are totally minority, but I do so in order to throw a seed into the debate. Let's start with privatisation. In recent days the President of the Council has spoken of the imminent sale of minority shares of ENI, Fincantieri and other public companies. The intention is commendable, but the result in financial terms seems poor and not able to reverse the negative trend of our economy. Rather, we immediately cut public debt significantly, selling the entire control package of the State's participants without hesitation. We accompany, instead, the sale of the public real estate with a legend according to which the former barracks or the former hospitals for sale, notwithstanding the local regulatory plans, will immediately enjoy a urban destination of complete satisfaction for the buyers. No more tax cuts such as the new VAT rates, excise duties, mini-patrimonials and Tobin tax or the new single municipal tax (IUC) that discourage the economic initiative. Rather, we think of a marginal rate facilitated for those who, enterprise or private citizen, in the years to come increase, rather than decrease, their taxable income. We have appreciated the commendable intentions expressed in recent days regarding spending review, but it must be made clear that 32 billion savings in the three-year period 2014-2016 are too few. I remember that the state budget exceeds 800 billion a year. The cost savings that Cottarelli intends to make therefore correspond to less than 2% of this budget. To Cottarelli, who seems to me in difficulty, I would suggest rather to call at his side, as advisors, many Venetian administrators, who constitute a ray of hope, for administrative competence and civil passion, in a context of crisis so distressing. I can think of two examples of my territory, which I would like to mention in this House: the former president of the Province of Vicenza and the mayor of Zugliano, a municipality of 6,000 souls. The first since 2006, the date of first settlement, to date has reduced staff by more than 22%. Now in the province of Vicenza staffing expenditure is 19 percent of current expenditure, when the national average is 33 percent. In turn, the municipality of Zugliano, I repeat of 6,700 souls, has one employee every 293 inhabitants; the average of the Venetian municipalities provides one employee every 140 inhabitants, the national average one employee every 101 inhabitants, the Sicilian municipalities instead have one employee every 47 inhabitants. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. ZANETTIN (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Madam President. I had to cut the surgery, which was scheduled for ten minutes, and I therefore request permission to deposit the full text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. ZANETTIN (FI-PdL XVII). The City's debt, which at 31 December 2006 amounted to 3.700,000 euros, was reduced by more than 60% and today amounts to 1.480,000 euros. Since 2007 the Municipality of Zugliano has not contracted more loans for investments, but in the meantime has carried out investments for more than 11 million euros, all self-financed. How to say: this is the spending review in Venetian sauce. Perhaps the same recipe should have been applied to the rest of the country. Therefore, I will not vote for this bill of stability, which I do not believe gives hope to the country. [[Applause from Senators Scilipoti and Dalla Tor]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u135	The joint general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u136	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u137	Madam President, I thank all the senators for their speeches. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Budget Commission for the work of these weeks, the rapporteurs for the text presented by the Government, all the members of the Commission and, with them, the offices of the Senate and the offices of the Ministries, who have allowed a job that I believe has been passionate, thorough, useful, which has allowed to improve the text of the Government, although, unfortunately, we have not managed to conclude the analysis of the amendments and we have not managed to reap the results of a debate that could have been, even in the final part of our work, just as fruitful. The law of stability is part of a difficult, sometimes very difficult, even dramatic framework for the conditions of the country's real economy, for the loss of work, for the difficulties of hundreds of thousands of young people in finding work, for the difficulties of businesses, the smallest in particular, for the difficulties of many families. It is also difficult because the intervention of the government and the economic policy of the government are part of a framework of economic policy of the eurozone that needs deep, even radical, corrections. Certainly the bill of stability that we examine today does not solve all the problems of the country and does not solve the most dramatic problems of the country. Yet I believe that, at a factual analysis of its contents, it is difficult not to recognize the sign of the reversal of trend compared to what has been done, at least, in the last dozen years. I see a quantitatively insignificant figure, but very relevant in qualitative terms, namely that for the first time for at least a dozen years, the bill of stability has an anticyclical sign: it gives resources to the real economy compared to the previous picture. An increase in taxes has been complained about in several interventions. I would like to point out that, albeit in a limited way, and with the Government's awareness that much more robust interventions would have been necessary, the stability bill reduces the tax burden on households and businesses: on household incomes through an intervention on the IRPEF which, as you know, has been improved in the Commission's discussion with the concentration on the lowest incomes, and made more important on that income bracket; it reduces the tax burden on companies, not only through the direct cut of INAIL contributions for a billion to grow in the coming years, but through a substantial strengthening of the so-called ACE, i.e. a tax relief that allows the capitalization of enterprises extended also to family enterprises, to individual enterprises, at a time when access to credit is more difficult. It also reduces to a certain extent not enough, I repeat, the IRAP for those companies that stabilize employment relations with permanent and loose contracts - a request that the Municipalities have repeatedly made in recent years - the Internal Stability Pact for one billion, allowing the Municipalities that have the opportunity to restart immediately the yards, the small works, with an important impulse to demand, a decisive factor in supporting the recovery of our economy. Before, Senator Barozzino stressed the problems of work: all these measures that support growth are obviously the necessary condition to generate work. It is clear that the objective of this Government is not to confine itself to finding resources for the integration fund by way of derogation; the objective is work, and work is built with a macroeconomic framework that supports a recovery that can feed labour. However, in the awareness of the difficulty, after having committed 1.5 billion additional resources on the Integration Fund by way of derogation for 2013, the Stability Act feeds with additional resources the Integration Fund by way of derogation for next year. On this basic plant, as I have tried to remind you, the Commission's debate has been fruitful and useful, with the contribution - I stress - of all the political forces present. It was a discussion that allowed us to strengthen the two axes that support the establishment of the stability bill: on the one hand oxygen for recovery through input and investment support; on the other hand, support for household incomes and equity, because today equity is the main macroeconomic variable to feed recovery. We unanimously approved - if I remember correctly - an important, emerging intervention for Sardinia, which allows us to give an instant response with resources immediately available to the populations affected by the tragedy of last week. In the parliamentary debate we put together a package of interventions not only for reconstruction, but also for prevention, for all the realities of our country invested by natural disasters in recent years. In the course of the debate, it was recalled that some amendments have been introduced in the Commission's work, which I consider to be very important in support of development and therefore work: a national system of credit guarantees for small businesses, which today is one of the main bottlenecks that inhibits and makes recovery difficult. I repeat that this is a national guarantee system, and not some additional resource on some funds available. We have introduced for the first time, with regard to those who talk about the sale of public assets, the State guarantee for credit to small businesses, through the Cassa depositi e loani. Banks that credit small businesses can transfer these loans to the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which buys them with the State guarantee. This makes it possible to significantly overcome or reduce the credit risk that has, in recent years, been one of the elements that has blocked access to credit to small businesses or has raised their costs unsustainablely. This is an extraordinary lever which will make the difference in the coming months for access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have refinanced the Central Guarantee Fund with additional resources, paying particular attention to the realities of the Mezzogiorno. It is not true, therefore, that there is no focus on the Mezzogiorno in the stability bill. The Central Guarantee Fund has special attention also because it uses funds for cohesion and development towards the Mezzogiorno. Finally, trust consortia have been strengthened, which, as you know, have played an important role in recent years, often replacing a difficult bank credit. There has been a substantial re-patriation of the trusted consortia with the involvement of the chambers of commerce, within the framework of the national guarantee system. I repeat, the term system is not emphatic: it describes the plurality of instruments put in place. Within the national guarantee system an intervention was made for access to the credit of families, for mortgages, for the purchase of the house, in particular for young couples. The third important point - and I start quickly at the conclusion - is the intervention on the house. Last night we tabled a proposal, which unfortunately we have not been able to discuss in the Commission. I think we need to talk about the data here, too. In the original text of the bill there is a billion more resources to the municipalities, aimed at reducing the tax burden on the house. I remember that the law of stability eliminates TARES; therefore, from next year, families will no longer pay it, and it replaces this revenue with a billion more resources. In the original establishment of the stability bill the taxation introduced reduces taxation on the first dwelling to a quarter. On a substantially similar tax base on the first dwelling, the standard rate increases from 4% to 1%. In the Government's amendment presented yesterday evening we took a very significant step forward: 500 million have been introduced that municipalities can only use for deductions to families with more difficulties or under special conditions that they intend to support. The tax system remains federal, and it is singular to hear, sometimes, from those who have shared in recent years a federal system criticism that give too much space to the municipalities to intervene. On this point of the housing tax I would like to point out that the text presented in the draft stability law contains the tenant tax to a limited extent to what was before the TARES, as regards the indivisible service component. In the design of the redefinition of taxation on the house there is no increase in tenants. Finally, there are three other important points, the first of which is the 100 million more for non-self-sufficiency. That sounds marginal. On the other hand, I believe that social policy is an additional signal. It has been many years since the Non-Sufficiencies Fund reached 350 million, and this has taken place in a framework where our difficulties and public finance constraints have certainly not eased compared to those of previous years. We have made important progress with regard to precarious workers. We have blocked the increase in social contributions on VAT consignments entered in the separate management of the INPS. We have given a response to the precariousness of justice, to some socially useful workers in more difficult areas such as Naples, Palermo and Calabria, to young medical specialists. We would also have liked to have discussed other important points if the Commission's work had come to an end. In the amendments reworded by the rapporteurs, there is an important, albeit experimental, intervention to combat poverty: the introduction of a minimum income for inclusion in some large metropolitan areas, which sets out a path to combating poverty and job integration. Finally, we have failed to take action to improve the indexing of pensions. It is a commitment that the Government confirms and that we will try to carry out in the House. The government hopes that in the discussion here and in the debate in the House in the next few days the two axes can be strengthened, that of support for the real economy and that of equity. Only in this way, with this work and with the involvement of all political forces, each with its own views and priorities, can we give the country the contribution it needs at such a difficult stage. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u138	With the reply from the representative of the Government, the joint discussion of the measures on the agenda was concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u139	We shall now proceed, pursuant to Rule 129 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, to the examination of the articles of the draft budget law. At this stage of the discussion, according to paragraph 5 of the aforementioned Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, only those who submit agendas and amendments will be able to speak on each item, to present them, and then the representative of the Government to give their opinion. I would point out that, with the approval of the individual articles, the tables, the general frameworks, the annexes and the lists referred to by the articles themselves are also to be approved and are to be found in the printed form. Pursuant to Rule 129 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the final vote of the draft budget law will be taken only after the final vote of the draft stability law. According to the arrangements made at the Conference of Leaders, we will only start voting from 2.30 p.m. and then wait that time to allow all senators to reach the Chamber. In the meantime, however, it is possible to explain the amendments and agendas relating to the articles to which they have been tabled, starting with Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u142	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Is it possible to distribute the texts of the amendments and agendas, which are not available?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u143	The offices tell me that the texts have already been distributed, so that some senators already have them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u146	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure for all votes, if we want to do so from time to time, as you prefer.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u147	All right, let's take note, Senator Santangelo. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo for all votes, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 1 with the attached table. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, with the annexed table and lists, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u148	The Government's opinion is opposed to all the amendments tabled in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u149	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.Tab.100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.Tab.100, tabled by Senators Di Biagio and Dalla Zuanna. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.Tab.101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 2.Tab.101, tabled by Senator Zin. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.Tab.102. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 2.Tab.102, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.Tab.103. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment No 2.Tab.103, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.Tab.104. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 2.Tab.104, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.Tab.105. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 2.Tab.105, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.Tab.106. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 2.Tab.106, tabled by Senators Di Biagio and Augello. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2, with the annexed table and lists. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 3 with the attached table. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 4 with the attached table. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 5, with the attached table and appendix. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, with the annexed table and appendix, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u150	The Government's opinion is opposed to the amendments. As regards agendas, the opinion is in favour if approved by the Commission; otherwise, they will be accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u151	They were not approved in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u152	Mr Baretta, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. So, they're accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u155	Orellana (M5S). In the Foreign Affairs Committee, we unanimously approved the agendas (including with the Government's opinion).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u156	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agendas for G6100 and G6101 are accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6.Tab.100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 6.Tab.100, tabled by Senator Zin. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6.Tab.101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 6.Tab.101, tabled by Senator Longo Fausto Guilherme and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 6, with the attached table and appendix. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 7 with the attached table. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, with the annexed table, list and appendix, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u157	I am against the amendments, while the agendas are accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u158	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 8.Tab.100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.Tab.100, tabled by Senators Di Biagio and Albertini. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. Let us turn to Amendment No 8.Tab.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u161	MARINELLO (NCD). Mr President, this amendment is similar to the amendment following my signature, Tab.102, and concerns the issue posed by the National Union of Civil War Victims. Among other things, this year marks the seventieth anniversary of this ancient but still current association and the celebration of the seventieth will take place creed in its presence, exactly the day after tomorrow, Thursday 28 November. I am aware of the reasons why the Government is giving an opinion against it. However, in order to prevent the House from slipping on the vote against a high-purpose amendment such as this one, I withdraw my amendment 8.Tab.102 and would also ask Mr Gualdani, who is the undersigned, together with Senator Scoma, who is absent today, of the same amendment 8.Tab.101, to withdraw it. In addition, I would like to make a further request to the Government for the full adoption of an agenda on this subject, not as a recommendation, given its noble purpose, so that it then gives concrete results.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u162	Senator Gualdani, do you accept the invitation to withdraw amendment 8.Tab.101?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u163	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u164	Amendments 8.Tab.101 and 8.Tab.102 are withdrawn and changed to agenda G8.Tab.102. I call on the Government to give its opinion on this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u165	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u166	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.Tab.102 will not be put to the vote. As the presenters do not insist on the vote, the agendas of the G8.100, G8.101, G8.102 and G8.103 are accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 8. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, with the annexed table, on which an amendment has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u169	MARINELLO (NCD). Mr President, I shall withdraw Amendment No 9.Tab.100, which I turn into the agenda which I entrust to the benevolence of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u170	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda resulting from the transformation of Amendment 9.Tab.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u171	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u172	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G9.Tab.100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 9, with the attached table. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, with the annexed table and list, on which amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u175	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, I shall withdraw Amendment No 10.Tab.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u176	I call on the Government representative to comment on the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u177	I am against Amendments 10.Tab.101 and 10.Tab.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u178	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 10.Tab.101, identical to Amendment No 10.Tab.102. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.Tab.101, tabled by Senator Bruno, identical to Amendment 10.Tab.102, tabled by Senator Mandelli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 10, with the attached table and list. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, with the annexed table and lists, on which an agenda has been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u179	Mr President, I welcome the G11.100 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u180	Senator Cotti, do you accept the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u181	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u182	As the rapporteur did not insist on the vote, the G11.100 agenda was accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 11, with the attached table and lists. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, with the attached table, on which an agenda has been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u183	Mr President, I welcome the G12.100 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u184	As the rapporteur did not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G12,100 was adopted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 12 with the attached table. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 13, with the attached table, on which agendas of the day have been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u185	Mr President, I welcome the G13.100 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u186	Senator Augello, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u187	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u188	As the rapporteur did not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G13,100 was adopted as a recommendation. I invite the representative of the Government to speak on the agenda G13.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u189	The government accepts it as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u190	Senator Orellana, do you insist on voting? Orellana (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the rapporteur did not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G13.101 was adopted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 13 with the attached table. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 14 with the attached table. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 15. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 16, with the general summary and the attached tables. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1121
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u193	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, on a point of order. Those who requested the application of the note relating to the opinion of the Committee of the Rules of Procedure of 14 September 1992, where it was said that the request for qualified vote must be submitted on a case-by-case basis with regard to the individual vote or to groups of votes, were myself. Until now we have always interpreted the rule in the sense that the request was related to the vote for all the amendments to an article, and I believe that in that sense we have always done our work. Today, Senator Santangelo asked that electronic voting should apply to all articles: however, each article needs to be checked for support, while we have qualified votes without checking the support on each article, in my opinion not complying with the rule that the one-off request is not allowed. It is a good thing to vote with this system, but with regard to each article we must check whether there are the fifteen senators who support the request for such a voting procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u194	He could have raised the objection when Senator Santangelo made the request and was accepted by us. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group]] . Contradictive enemy, this was the case. It means that from now on you will oppose Senator Santangelo's request and we will ask each time to verify the support of the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u195	Mr President, I do not want to oppose a perfectly legitimate request from Senator Santangelo. I ask that the Rules of Procedure be applied. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u196	I take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u199	SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure on this and on all other articles, if the need arises.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u200	The articles are finished, because Article 17 is the last. [[Laughter]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 17. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1121 PRESIDENT. Colleagues, the votes of the articles of the draft law approving the state budget are thus exhausted. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 129 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the final vote on the draft budget law will only be taken after the final vote on the draft stability law. He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u201	Mr President, in keeping with the timetable set by the Conference of Leaders this morning, work is being carried out which could begin this morning because the Budget Commission has not been able to complete the work and, therefore, a Commission text is not available. In order to have the text of the maxi amendment and the technical report, we call for the Assembly to resume its work at 4 p.m. We are in the timetable set this morning, which provides for time for the Budget Commission and, as it stands, the start of the debate on the issue of trust to take place at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u202	I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u203	We now come to the follow-up to the discussion of draft law No 1120. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Franceschini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u204	Mr President, I must begin by apologizing to you and the House. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For this 40-minute delay, which has reasons, because, as you know, the work of the budget committee ended tonight at 2.45 a.m. without a mandate to the rapporteur. As a government, we had undertaken that, in situations where we had decided to put the question of trust, we would have respected the parliamentary work - in this case the part that took place and ended with the votes, but also the one that ended without votes - not by supplementing the maxi amendment with amendments of the government's own initiative, but by transposing, for the part that was not voted in the Commission, those submitted by the Government and the rapporteurs in the Budget Committee. The time has been necessary because the drafting of the maxi amendment, the related technical report and the boiling of the General Accounting of the State, which are necessary, have made us lose these forty minutes. However, I think it is important, especially for those of you and of us who are more legislators in Parliament, to note that in many situations the different governments, apart from the color, have, as is possible from a regulatory and regulatory point of view, modified or supplemented the Commission's text. We have made this choice and we have also respected it in the other branch of Parliament, in the few cases where we have put trust in measures since the Led Government took office. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I therefore put the question of confidence in the approval of amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, which is entirely a substitute for all articles of draft law No 1120 - Provisions for the establishment of the annual and multiannual budget of the State (Stability Act 2014) - which takes into account and transposes the amendments approved by the Commission during the reference work, which have not been completed, as well as the amendments tabled by the Government and the rapporteurs. I believe that for obvious reasons the House must have time to examine a text which, being the bill of stability, cannot be approved armored; therefore, it must have time to examine it in terms of law. I also believe that in these hours the question of confidence in the most important act of the Government, namely the law of stability, is also an opportunity for a transparent, clear and - I hope - peaceful confrontation between the political forces and also for the verification of the existence of a relationship of trust between the Government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u205	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence was raised about the adoption of amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, which is entirely a substitute for all articles of bill 1120. Therefore, in accordance with practice, I transmit the text to the 5th Permanent Commission so that, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in compliance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it will inform the Assembly about the financial coverage profiles. I would like to know from the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, how much time the Commission needs to consider the amendment for financial coverage.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u206	Mr President, the time is very short, for two reasons. As the first time this has happened in this parliamentary term, it will allow me to say that at this stage the Commission is neither a referee, nor a drafter nor a deliberator: it has a function of mere verification of the technical report in relation to the amendment on which the question of trust has been raised, so much so that it does not express itself by a vote, but gives me a mandate to report to the House on the aspects of financial cover. The second reason is that the Government has tabled the amendment on which it has put the question of trust regularly with technical report and therefore it will be very easy to make the necessary feedback. In any case, I believe that we will need time to work at least until 5.15 p.m., and at least half an hour after the sitting of this House has been suspended.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u209	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Regardless of the Government's apology for the delay (I am sorry that, at least personally, they are accepted) in relation to the work of this House, which had to start at 4 p.m. and instead began at 4.40 p.m., I wonder - and I try to give an answer - whether the lack of presence of the Presidency on time at 4 p.m., in order to communicate the possible further postponement, does not result in a lack of sensitivity or even of respect for all of us senators who sit in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u212	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking after the statements by the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Azzollini, who indicated the procedure that normally applies. To find a precedent referring to the fact that the law of stability arrives in the Senate Chamber at first reading without a mandate to the rapporteur puts us in front of an assessment from a technical as well as a political point of view, if anyone thinks they want to do so. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. It happened in 2006. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). I shall confine myself to technical matters, namely the possibility of evaluating only the technical report, so only and exclusively the financial profile of the text which you now assign to the Budget Commission. But the Budget Commission itself, when giving the mandate to the President of the Commission, votes on a mandate for the examination of a technical report, and we ask that everyone be guaranteed time to carry it out properly. Certainly it is not an infinite and very long time, because it refers only to the financial profile, but it is still a time that is needed and that I ask for in the guarantee of everyone, of any member of the Budget Commission, given the effects on the next financial year, as well as on the future ones, and the impact of this law of stability. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u215	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to highlight two aspects. We take note of the fact that the government is doing the majority tests on the Italians. And this seems obvious to me after listening to Minister Franceschini [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] : we present this amendment, on which we put the question of trust, and on it we check that there are majorities. A fantastic way to imagine the future of the country in a moment of crisis! Secondly, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would ask you, before you decide on the timetable, to let us know the content of the maxi amendment you have just tabled and to make us think about it. I have to say that I did not fully appreciate the attitude of the President of the Budget Commission, who has derailed virtually everything to a purely technical matter by referring to the technical report of the General Accounting of the State. I believe that there are some political aspects that need to be highlighted and, since I am very attentive to what others say, given that Minister Franceschini himself spoke of a political fact, we believe that we must be involved in the political fact with the role that belongs to us and that you must allow us to play. [[Applause from the LNP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u218	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, we too, as an opposition, want a little more time to examine the maxi amendment, first of all because it replaces the entire bill of stability. It is true that in the Budget Committee we studied it for a month waiting for oppositions and majority to agree on who was opposition and who majority (now, by the way, it is quite strange to hear them say: you are doing this on the Italians' skin, when we spent a month in the Commission watching them play on the Italians' skin). [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato.]] We have studied this in the Commission, but I do not believe that the whole House has had time to read, not the draft stability law, but at least the maxi amendment on which the Government has put the question of trust. Therefore, I would ask President Azzollini to delay a little while both to give the oppositions the opportunity to read the technical report in the Commission and to allow colleagues to examine the maxi amendment, also because after that we will have to make speeches in this House on the text you have given us now.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u221	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we also want to reiterate the same request by giving reasons for the fact that this is not an ordinary amendment, but a large amendment on which the Government raises the question of trust, in which I therefore imagine that the political action of a financial nature of the Government for the next financial year is concentrated and that to some extent distinguishes the political changes that have represented themselves outside the Chamber these days. So, reading is complex, but it doesn't scare us to be in activity for long hours, since we have been following particularly tiring rhythms for weeks and continue to maintain lucidity anyway. This is to give serenity to the Government and President Azzollini. Therefore - I repeat - the request made by the other groups is also reiterated by the Mixed-SEL Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u222	Moving well beyond the request made by President Azzollini, I shall therefore suspend the sitting until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u223	We greet the delegation of the Italian Association of FIGC Arbiters, present in the gallery. [[Applause]] The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 4.44 p.m. and resumed at 18.11 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u224	Let's resume our work. Unfortunately, I must inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the work of the 5th Commission is still under way, and so I have to suspend the sitting until 18:45.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u225	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u227	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I note that what we have said is becoming more and more reality, i.e. that which had been robbed as a mere fulfillment of a few minutes is not yet ready. So maybe someone should stop teaching and be a teacher.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u228	Thank you, Senator Volpi, but this is an indication of the seriousness with which the work is being carried out. I therefore suspend the sitting until 18.45. (The sitting was suspended at 6 p.m. and resumed at 7 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,900, which is entirely replacing the draft law No 1120 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u229	Mr President, two problematic aspects have emerged from the debate in the Commission. One senator requested that Annexes 1 and 2 be inserted immediately into the text because, since it is an entirely replacement amendment, it is necessary, from the financial point of view, that the annexes which have financial profiles, such as those in question, be included immediately in the text. This was the first request. The other profile moves instead from an observation that has been made and that, I note, has absolutely well-founded traits. In addition to the type of drafting of the technical report, which can also be modified, but which, in essence, does not affect the content (it would be much better to modify it, because it appears more like a preliminary work to the technical report itself), I personally note that there is even a reference to a rule, on which for a long time it has been debated during the debate, then it appears in the text submitted to the confidence, so there is almost an overabundance of burdens. The norm is no longer there and there is a fundamental problem: the final prospect of the onerous effects is right that it makes more clearly emerge in accounting terms the most and the least, therefore the destination of the resources and the sources of coverage. Objectively, as one senator pointed out in particular, the final prospectus, even if corrected, does not make clear to the senators the origin of that balance. A balance of 10 can in fact derive from the difference between a +20 and a ‐10, or from a +30 and a ‐20 or even from a +100 and a ‐90. This is necessary in order to understand what, for example, the value of +100 is and what the value of ‐90 from which the balance derives. To write only that the balance is equal to 10 is not the task of the technical report; the task of the technical report is to ensure that that balance is the result of a burden and a cover. These are the two aspects highlighted by the Budget Commission: both are of relevance to the Commission and have been correctly identified.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u230	I declare open the debate on the question of trust...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u231	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u233	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I do not believe that what President Azzollini has said is elusive as this Presidency. Senator Azzollini said that the maxi amendment does not respond to the dictates of an over-ordered law, such as the accounting law. I remind myself that the accounting law, which comes directly from the provisions of Article 81 of the Constitution, cannot be changed except by a rewriting of the law itself. Senator Azzollini and other senators present in the Chamber contributed to his rewriting in 2009; precisely, paragraph 3 of Article 17 of Law No 196 of 2009 specifically states that no amendment of the Government that is not accompanied by the technical report boiled down by the General Accounting of the State can be considered. For these reasons, as we have already pointed out in the Commission, the amendment is as if it had not been tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is President Azzollini, I would ask you to follow Senator Ferrara's objections, because I will then invite you to reply. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, your speech is very correct, but it is the Presidency that must decide. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII]] , because the fulfilment of an amendment to the constitutional dictation must be decided by the Presidency in its judgment on the admissibility of the amendment. The Government's amendment is not accompanied by the technical report and therefore cannot be accepted or received by this Presidency. Until the amendment is accompanied by the technical report, there is no document to discuss. I believe that the Presidency has such offices and powers as to be able to decide, but I only allow myself to be a diligent and obliging member, as a senator, to bring to the attention of the Presidency the fact that, if we were to discuss and possibly vote, we would carry out an open constitutional violation and the amendment adopted would be unconstitutionally discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u234	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u236	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking for an assessment of the technical issues which we have just assessed in the Budget Committee and which Mr Azzollini has regularly reported to you, Mr President, to enable you to make the most precise and correct assessment of the process of the Stability Act in our examination. After spending many days evaluating texts, voting on some, and others not, we acquire a large amendment which, as you yourself said, is the result of a series of texts of amendments voted on, of amendments proposed by the Government and voted on and of amendments proposed by the Government and the rapporteurs, tabled but also not voted on. It is a full-bodied work, therefore, which is reduced in this major amendment which rewrites the whole text, with a technical report which is the most important part that the Budget Commission has to examine, evaluate and acquiesce from the political point of view. As President Azzollini said earlier in the euphemistic way, it is at least a text that can be referred to a few days ago, while the texts of parliamentary initiative were still being voted on and not the amendments of the Government, which on the contrary are the most full-bodied part, together with those of the rapporteurs, of the text on which the question of trust has been raised today. This text, Mr President, for the first time in my modest parliamentary experience, the one on which there is the boiling of the General Accounting of the State, reports - and should not have - even the numbers of parliamentary amendments deposited and then discussed in the Budget Committee, together with the notes, and the missing parts. We, therefore, in the technical report accompanying the maxi amendment on which the question of trust is raised, read - for example - on Amendment 3.42 (text 2), the words: "Feel Riccardi" as if this were a usual formula in a technical report. I would point this out to Mr Saccomanni. I was sorry to mention it to Deputy Minister Fassina. This is the first time I have seen a report on which the General Accounting Office of the State has boiled, written in this way. I am not going to go into the matter, because we are not in the right place. We will soon be when we come to the substance of the general discussion. I shall therefore confine myself to concluding my speech by pointing out that it is in your responsibility, Mr President, to verify that the report and the maxi amendment are absolutely corresponding. We have not been able to verify this since the speedy reading we have done - perhaps too quickly - because, given the many errors found, it would have been necessary to have the opportunity to make a more detailed one; there is even a lack of texts and amendments from the Government presented to the Commission, which are not then evaluated by the technical report provided kindly by the Ministry of Economy and the General Accounting of the State. I believe that this law of stability deserves to be evaluated in a better and better way in all its parts. This falls within your responsibility, Mr President, and I hope that you will reassure the whole House that we are voting on a correct text not so much and not only in its drafting, on which we may even fly, given the speed and haste with which we have worked, but also in those very important financial effects on the public financial balances that the law of stability determines. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u237	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u238	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u239	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking to confirm what has already been said by my previous colleagues. This is a technical report which is not worthy of being called such a report. It is the summation of a text composed of a whole series of sub-amendments and, as President Azzollini also pointed out, what is the most serious aspect is that in the end there is no correlation table between the text and the balances, both positive and negative. So I wonder how a Parliament can vote for confidence in a text where there is no link between active and passive balances. We must at least provide this summary table that we have seen in all the maneuvers, in the laws of stability, but also in the previous financial laws. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u240	Senator Azzollini, the task assigned to the 5th Commission was precisely to evaluate the technical aspects. As President, I do not think I can go into technical matters. The budget committee has this function. I would therefore ask you to give an opinion on this. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u241	Mr President, I have, of course, referred to the critical issues. I repeat that the technical report, in its cover statement, is verified, so there is no violation of Article 81 of the Constitution. But frankly, I also note - I said this before and I repeat this - that it would be appropriate for the Government, in the course of the discussion on the question of trust, to allow for an improvement in that technical relationship, especially with the definition of the analytical coverage prospectus for charges and cover. In the same way, it would be useful - I do not know whether they have already arrived or not - (I do not underestimate absolutely the request made by the other senator and not by Senator Lanzillotta) that in the course of the general discussion also Annexes 1 and 2, as has been said. Mr President, I would also like to remind my fellow Members that it is true that the technical report - as Senator Ferrara says - is indispensable for the analysis of the text, but it is not the trustworthy text that is being proposed to Parliament. It is, as Senator Ferrara correctly recalled, a rule that was introduced by Law No 196 of 31 December 2009, in order to allow visibility under Article 81 of the Constitution. I have said that that technical report is positively verified, because it is boiled down by the General Accountant of the State, and therefore on the balances Parliament checks that they have been respected. However, it would be most appropriate if a technical report were to be drawn up in accordance with the specific rules which, frankly, are not properly respected in the technical report before us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u242	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u244	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I appeal to you as President, for your professional history, and to the representatives of the Government, in their institutional and personal seriousness. I would ask them whether there are still the conditions which had been laid down this morning as a precondition for the decision of the Conference of Leaders on the order of business of today. At 7.30 p.m., we find ourselves with a large amendment that the President of the Budget Commission - intelligently and imaginatively - defined as corresponding to the Constitution, but - to put it simply - very, very stretched. Is it right that we use this haste and craving for such an important provision as the law of stability? Does Minister Saccomanni think that, in the face of the Europe that looks at us, we look like we are serious people and that the image of our country improves? Evaluate yourself. To me - frankly - it seems like we're doing something very cocky.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u245	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u247	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I appreciated and listened to what Mr Azzollini had to tell us and I personally followed some of the work in the Commission. It seems to me, however, that we are losing sight of our objective. On the one hand, there is the work of the Budget Commission, which needed to verify the coverage of the technical report; on the other hand, there is a profile of eligibility assessment by the Presidency. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to a number of points in the report which I personally have been shocked by. In fact, if the text of the maxi amendment is made up of an article with 534 paragraphs, the technical report must refer to the paragraphs of the article of the maxi amendment submitted. This is not the case: we have a technical report, which is probably a draft work before the Commission's work, relating to amendments which do not in any way match the number of the amendment with the paragraph on which the technical report is based. But there is more, and I would like to give you just a few examples, precisely because you yourself will assume responsibility for declaring eligibility. So I'll give you some of these pearls. On page 1 of the technical report, Amendment 3.42 says: "Two text," to hear Riccardi. I don't know who this Riccardi is, but after that, it doesn't say anything. In Amendment 4,2000/62, the technical report says: "It does not have coverage" and I stress that it is written in the technical report. I could continue for hours, verifying the many points where it is written: to hear Di Felice, Missa or Massicci, among others. I don't know if there's a cover in the end or not, since the sales aren't there at the end, and so it's impossible to establish it, but just take a technical report on which tabulas is written by the Accounting, with the stamp of the Chief Accountant of the State, which lacks coverage, and we take it to the Senate? But this is a matter of the dignity of the House: they rewrite it, delete the notes where it is written that they lack the covers for their own admission, present the table with the balances and then we will come back to talk about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u248	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u249	You have the floor, Senator Azzollini; then if the government wants to intervene...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u250	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, I have to respond to the point raised by Senator Calderoli, because it is a point that fits exactly the work we have done in the Commission. Senator Calderoli is perfectly right: it is written at that point that there is no cover. It is clear what this is about, that is why I said that the technical report should be resumed, and I will say now, Senator Calderoli, because that is the case. It is a gentleman who notes that for that measure there is no cover and that it must be found. What you have read, Senator Calderoli, refers in fact to the most beautiful point of the work done by all of us together, which is that of the very serious disabilities: that is why I am talking about it. Since that point has been particularly taken care of by the Commission in terms of cover, what has happened (I say this for the serenity of the Senate) is that there has been a reinstatement of 25 million of the National Fund for Non-self-sufficiency, which was covered by a rule. Then we implemented it by 75 million and in the norm that covered the reinstatement of the Fund, Senator Calderoli, it is certain that those 75 million were not there. Of course, in the other covers related to the articles, there are the covers for that measure, and that's why the balance then at the end square, is clear. It is therefore perfectly true what Senator Calderoli observes, that is, that it is written that there is no coverage, but because it is the subject of which I have just said and because I know perfectly how the coverage has been identified, because it has been the subject of a broad discussion, a total sharing and an analytical assessment of the immediate effectiveness of that standard, it is clear that the rule of the 75 million is found in the general coverage amendment that comes from the two, three, four major sources of coverage of the entire law of stability. That's why I said before some improvement has to be made, but it's not that there's no lack of cover. Not me, but the entire Budget Commission would have noticed when we assessed it, because I remind everyone that the financial amendments are always compensated and we had established in the Budget Commission that, when amendments were adopted with a coverage, the same would be reviewed in the final session in the light of the sources of coverage. I'll explain it better. A senator who says he has to allocate the sum "A", says with standard formulas to always take it from the bottom "X". At a time when that fund is exhausted - I make the simplest example - it is quite clear that, when it is admitted, it is known that there are sources of coverage that, together, cover the entire sum. That is why this has happened. In the work of instructors this can happen, and Senator Calderoli is right when he remembers that there is no cover. However, it is not the substance of the matter, which is what I have been trying to explain. [[Applause from Senator Sacconi's PDe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u251	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u253	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, the long dissertation of Senator Azzollini, as is said in the doctrine, proves too much. The President of the 5th Commission was forced to give a long explanation to respond to Senator Calderoli's observation. The accounting law obliges the figures not to be explained in this House, but to be read. There is no need on the part of the senators to vote to read this or that figure, but the total which, as we have always said in the Commission, is the result of a sum. Mr President, have the good pleasure of bringing the technical report: it will check that there is no page with a table. There is a table in the maxi amendment, but the table of the maxi amendment must be the same as that of the technical report, which must be boiled. Mr President, I would ask you to look at the technical report for a moment, in which there is no table; there is no sum and there is no total. But a technical report, in order to be such, must act a final balance: without a balance that is not a technical report. In this Chamber, Mr President, Senator Monti, former President of the Council, as well as former Minister for Economic Affairs, and Senator Tremonti, another decorated Minister for Economic Affairs, are present. Both Senator Monti and Senator Tremonti have produced technical reports in the past - I do not want Mr Saccomanni to do so - such as the one that has been presented here today. We have time to make this right. The Ministry is so well equipped that we can certainly submit a technical report in the space of a few ten minutes. We do not make this mistake: it would be a very bad precedent, Senator Zanda, a very bad precedent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u254	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u255	You have the floor, Senator, even though you have already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u256	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will not steal more than a minute from you, but I think it is also in your interest, because the pearls go one by one. I would like to thank President Azzollini for his explanation worthy of an accountant-general of the State, but I would ask him to look again at the report. I have made just one example, but just go a little further to find another passage in the report to which I would like to draw attention. If we go to point 7.41 - and I hope that the Presidency is also in front of the report - we read: "Comma 1. This is a provision involving less revenue. At the end of point 7.41 we read again: Therefore, the following higher charges arise from the provision (...). Its honor is given and the dots of suspension are followed here, without any indication of the cover. Sticks of suspension, Mr. President. But this is a state budget; we're not talking about a hect of mortadella, so even if it's an eight and a half, it's okay. By the way, we're talking about two hectos here. For heaven's sake, Mr President, I would also like to ask for special attention from you, so that we do not really get the "mortadella" in a technical report. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u259	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it has started badly and I am afraid it will end worse at this stage. As I believe that we all have great interest in safeguarding the dignity of this House and the work that is taking place, I believe that, Mr President, you cannot fail to take into account that we have started a general debate today in a very uncomfortable situation, without the rapporteur being present and without the final decision being taken; therefore, a general debate and a debate on nothing or almost nothing. Now we have the government's measure, but the interventions of Senator Bonfrisco, then Senator Ferrara, Senator Calderoli, Senator Carraro and again the replies of Senators Calderoli and Ferrara are not enough to give President Azzollini the strength to explain why the government's maxi amendment is inadequate in formal and substantive aspects. President, please do not give the country this indecent and inadequate image of the Senate of the Republic, because we are talking about the law of stability at a particularly delicate time. Therefore, I appeal to your sensitivity and authority: have pride, stop the work, question the Government and gather us when the papers are in order to resume the work of the House with thoroughness and regularity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u260	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Franceschini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u261	Mr President, it is clear that even the debate that is going through this House is not isolated from the political context in which it takes place, and we see it. I too have had experience of opposition in Parliament, so I am well aware that in certain situations some incompleteness or formal errors, rather than simply asking for correction, become a subject of understandable political dialectics. I note that the Government - and this is never the case for the mutual discharge of its responsibilities - has found itself operating within the timetable set by the Senate and in the presence, as I recalled a few hours ago, of the Commission which has not finished its work; therefore, the text has arrived in the Chamber without a mandate to the rapporteur. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII eLN-Aut Groups]] Very quickly, we have accepted the work of the Commission, so much so that the comments made in this debate refer to the technical report but not to the text. The text was presented with the haste of the House that was waiting, so those notes on the margins - let me be allowed - stem from the haste of the deposit, but - as President Azzollini said - they did not change the judgment of the Budget Commission. Since President Azzollini correctly made a request, as regards the absence of the tables I point out that they are coming; they may arrive, if President Azzollini's proposal is accepted, during the discussion, so will be corrected the formal errors, as has happened many other times, of the technical report, but they do not change the fact that the technical relationship is there (I say this to President Ferrara), has been deposited and has been boiled by the Accounting of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u262	It seems to me that all the groups have had the opportunity to express themselves. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups and Senator Ferrara Mario.]] When the Government, under its responsibility, raises the question of trust in a text, a seal of finality is attached to it, so the Presidency can only take note of it and submit it to the vote of the Assembly. Since the 14th legislature, the practice of passing on the maxi amendment to the Budget Committee has been established so that it can then inform the Assembly about the financial coverage profiles in relation to Article 81 of the Constitution, thus respecting the constitutional prerogatives. To this end, it is precisely the technical report which I would like to remind you that the Presidency exercises a control of legitimacy in the sense that if it is signed by the Accountant of the State and regularly boiled it is legitimate. However, I would like to point out that the technical report is not the subject of the vote, but it is only a prerequisite for eligibility for the maxi amendment, as well as for all the amendments of the Government. I therefore believe that the debate on the issue of trust is open. Any questions may be raised in the course of the debate and then the Assembly may be voted on. She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so. [[Senator Malan's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u263	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u264	Senator Ferrara, I opened the debate on the matter of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u265	[[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I am very sorry to have to say, for the second time in this House, that when a Holding Company immodestly takes the floor on the order of business, and takes it after the intervention of the Government which, as it is written, reopens the debate, it should give it to me without any insistence. In this regard, in the discussion you are quite right to recall the resolution of the 1988 Rules Council, but, see, this insistence in the reaffirmation of that resolution in the presence of an accounting law passed in 2009 would open another front, and therefore that of the immediate convocation of the Board for the Rules of Procedure to discuss and modify that resolution. I do not think that, in view of your decision, you should insist on it, not least because it is your prerogative under Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and then under Article 96 of the Constitution, so it is your responsibility to serve the best performance of the institutions, and so this House will take responsibility for it and you are addressing it to this end. However, I would first like to remind Minister Franceschini that what the Minister himself said is not true, because that is not a technical report. [[Comments by Minister Franceschini.]] The technical report needs, I repeat, once again, as was not denied by Senator Azzollini, that there is a readable balance. As far as your work is concerned, Mr President, let me remind you that, like all the Presidents, you are trying not to do so, but - please accept with due respect my criticism - at this moment you are defending more the majority than the minority, where the majority defends itself and the right reasons of the minority would need better acceptance. [[Applause from the FI Group.]] Also because, I repeat, a serious, very serious violation of the Constitution is being committed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u266	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u267	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, before entering into the specifics of the maneuver, I cannot fail to outline a brief outline of the serious economic and social situation in the country. The Government and Parliament inherit an economic and social situation of great suffering. The production system is collapsing. The country is distrusted. Unemployment has now surpassed 12%. A country where, out of absurdity, many workers have also stopped seeking employment. The number of firms in difficulty grows, just read the data on the integration fund. Many companies, despite the tenacity demonstrated in recent years by entrepreneurs in all sectors of our economy, have been forced to close. All this with a public debt that marks new records. The action of this Government and this law of stability is part of this context. A law that, too often we forget it, has the burden of keeping public accounts in order... (Brusio). It is not easy to speak, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, if anyone has decided to leave the Chamber, please do so in silence. Go ahead, Senator Fabbri. FABBRI (PD). Thank you, Mr President. A law - I said - that, too often we forget it, has the burden of keeping public accounts in order and that is not the only measure of an economic nature that the Government and Parliament are and will be called upon to approve in order to affect the economy. It is a measure, the law of stability, which has the task of starting a phase of growth and must be able to bring the country out of the recession, trying to restart a virtuous circle of greater competitiveness of the national production system, of greater employment and, therefore, of development. In this vein, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, with the hundreds of amendments tabled, has tried to promote this path, making its own proposals focusing on development and growth, as well as on social measures aimed at supporting families and the weakest sections of the population. I would like to focus, in particular, on some of the issues included in the maxi mum amendment concerning companies. At first, a guarantee fund was set up to include Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, the trusts and all the actors in production, with a view to strengthening interventions in support of small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of access to credit, financing projects and production and export development. Decisive in this process is the possibility of transferring credits to Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which will buy them with the State guarantee, as Vice Minister Fassina recalled this afternoon. An important signal on the side of overcoming between demand for credit and obtaining the same. Well the strengthening and the patrimonialization of the trust consortia, subjects that have guaranteed in these years liquidity and resources to the enterprises. Well the establishment of the guarantee fund for the first home. As for the results achieved by this bill in another fundamental section of our economy (that of the road haulage), we cannot fail to note how much the Executive, within the limits already remembered, has done in order to meet the needs of tens of thousands of workers strangled by continuous increases of the cost of the fuel. We would like to imagine a country with a different articulation of the transports on road, but the reality is that of a sector that, besides employing such a large number of operators, guarantees with its work and its existence the functioning of our system Country. This is why the Commission's work is to be welcomed, although the resources that the rules we are preparing to approve free are not sufficient to cover the negative effects of the crisis that is being dramatically felt in this sector more than elsewhere. Certainly, colleagues, the bill of stability has generated expectations in a country in serious difficulty. The answer is not sufficient; it is not a definitive measure to revive the development and the economy of this country, but it is a first step, a first important sign of confidence that this Government and this Parliament launch to the country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u268	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u269	Mr President, in the dismay in this House this evening, we cannot fail to note what has happened, it is happening and it will still have to happen. The current Government of the broad understandings had at least three fundamental objectives: a process of peace (which I do not think has been achieved or is about to be achieved); the necessary institutional reforms (which served a centre-right and a centre-left together with the Government) and measures to promote development and growth, for too long and for too many years absent from the agenda of the Government and this Parliament. We jumped headlong into the work of the Budget Committee, offering at least 10 points on which to reason: the reduction of taxes on the house, a stronger intervention on the tax wedge, a necessary reduction of VAT that allows a decrease from 22, to 21 and finally to 20% (also because the increase in VAT has led to a contraction of consumption and, in the end, lower revenues for the Erario); moreover, a free circulation of cash, significant interventions on the disposal of the participating regions (which cost so much), as well as a particular attention to social housing and public housing agencies to give answers to the weak groups, the security sector, the Mezzogiorno and to companies. I would like to comment on the first point because we have heard particular names: first IMU, then we learned from the newspapers about the existence of TRISE, which was composed and composed of TARI and TASI; then there was talk of TUC during the work in the Budget Commission, and this morning the citizens and yesterday evening the members of the 5th Commission became aware of the IUC. Where does the centre-right approach of Forza Italia substantially change compared to the other side? This is the fact that we have come to a diametrically opposite vision: on the one hand, we speak of percentages, of assets and thousandths, both on the remaining IMU, and on the TARI, and on the TASI; on the other hand, we believe that this must be a service tax, and therefore not linked to square meters, but actually linked to the services that that property receives or to the provision to the waste management that that property produces. So, these are totally different criteria, but the data helps us understand. In fact, if in 2007 the Italian people paid in total, in the home system, around 10.5 billion euros, the professional federations find that in 2014 the citizens will have to pay between 39 and 43.5 billion euros. Beyond the impossibility for Italian citizens to bear such a high tax burden, there is the fact that real estate is no longer marketable, saleable or leased. Then, having to conclude my intervention in order to remain in the established times, I emphasize that probably the bill of stability to our examination, which arrives so quickly that it has an uncoordinated technical relationship with respect to the maxi amendment in relation to the boiling (inside, moreover, there are straflocioni that they should suspend the procedure of approval of this measure), has only one object: it is the stability, not of our country, but - as some Minister member of the Government has said - of the armchairs that they are warming up, of the stability of a measure that perhaps must give political order to new formations, but that nothing says and nothing does, or rather does so much damage to the Italian people, to the development and destiny of our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u270	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u271	Mr President, senators and senators, we have missed yet another opportunity, in a situation where the country does not allow it and cannot wait. We had before us the opportunity to make some choices, but in order to make them we needed to put so much responsibility and also a good dose of courage and consistency. In the commitment we have made in the debate in the Commission we have not escaped the difficulties that this phase entails for our country. In fact, together with the proposals, we have always indicated, not demagogically but precisely, the way forward, the proposal to identify resources that could support coherent policies. However, we have seen the paradox of a financial proposal, born within the political conception of the Government of broad understandings, which puts the IMU's boulder, then, with great imagination, during this month, transformed into 10,000 different definitions up to what would seem definitive of the last hours; I say "seems" because the definitions have changed, but the heaviness of the boulder, the substance of the criterion that characterized this financial proposal, has remained the same. On that altar, that is, the policies of change have been sacrificed, for a good development, necessary and indispensable for our country. 20.06 (Following CERVELLINI). And there has been no coherent choice of voices to find resources for these policies. All on that altar. Then not only are military expenditure on the F35s confirmed, in spite of a Parliament document calling on the government and the minister responsible to make a precise assessment of the needs from this point of view, but, on the contrary, other burdens have been put on them. In fact, we are no longer talking only about F35, but billions of euros are allocated to adapt the armament, not only of the Air Force but also of the Navy, which in the three years represent important figures. Some are connected to our vehicles, such as the aircraft carrier Cavour, which is now being taken as an advertising platform for Italian weapons around the world for all warring and potentially belligerent countries. In order to do this, we invest billions of euros, but we leave the issue that we have posed unresolved, that of putting in place adequate interventions on the hydrogeological failure that would have led to a healthy policy of development, of work (good work). And all this happened while the tragedy that struck Sardinia was under way. Through our intervention we have managed to determine a commitment that, although not adapted to drama, certainly does not have the petty dimension that had been proposed in the text of the bill of stability presented by the Government. I believe then that on this occasion we sacrificed on the altar of the IMU and all its declinations, as well as of the great works, interventions that could put, beginning with local transport, on other tracks the development of this country and the quality of our public transport. On one thing we succeeded, and a result we put to the mark in the battle that we did. A result, however, that does not make us express a judgment of adequacy and less than a positive judgment. We have avoided handstrokes that, sometimes in the middle of the night, without any discussion, in no place, and without even a certain paternity have been tempted in the course of these days. I am thinking precisely of the provocation of the sale of beaches, a public good that our country absolutely cannot afford to dissipate. That would, yes, be something that would not put us in a position to look our children and daughters in the eye. The beaches, yes, are a heritage that nature has put us in a position to have: a unique heritage. And among the sensible proposals that have been made there was also to sell it out and to compromise it in a perhaps definitive way, to make some cash. The same was true of the history of stadiums: a beautiful blanket to cover, in a clumsy way, powerful building speculations, other castings of cement especially in the big and medium-sized cities of our country. You had to withdraw quickly, because you lied to public opinion, even that of great sporting sensitivity. In fact, we were not talking about this, but about being able to determine concrete castings in a completely independent way from the realization of sports works related to sports activity and what is perhaps needed: there is no doubt. In this sense you did not want to hit and send a signal that something was changing. We had proposed that we begin to cut back on the practice of financial incomes and on a policy that is always looking for where the crisis is most difficult to bear. Instead, we always end up there. In fact, in the new version of the municipal tax, called IUC, the question arises of the tenants' competition for the payment of the house tax. In short, you have filled our heads and ears with the torment that already exists in Italy an asset; and instead we say that we really would need an effective asset, where those who have more contribute to get out of the crisis. We are told, however, that the assets in Italy already exist: first it was called IMU, then TRISE and then TASI. What a curious country that makes a fortune pay to those who do not have this heritage! I mean, do we realize the paradox that you're putting this country in? Call the surreptitious and surrogate property tax and then deny you in a way I don't know if it's tragic or ridiculous. I'm afraid it's tragic. In this sense, a great opportunity has been missed. The country can't wait. I am thinking of the interventions that we could have included in the law of stability, including with regard to the territory. Commitments had been made on rail transport, on the implementation of measures that are now necessary. Think about the road as far as Maremma is concerned. They had made commitments to do interventions immediately, because we are going towards a season that risks recreating what happened just over a year ago, with wounded, with dead, with very heavy damage to crops and things. What are we waiting for? Then weep all when an important flood occurs? To mourn the damage, the wounded, the victims? But when we have the opportunity to make choices, perhaps extending the time of realization of some work that is not felt necessary or that can wait - we can wait to save 15 minutes by doing the TAV in Val di Susa, because this determines concretely - and to intervene not with a construction site, but with 100 yards that can reverse the living conditions and bring back on the hydrogeological reset track our country do not do so. In this sense it is with great disappointment that we evaluate the document that was presented to us a few minutes ago. It is a document that does not take into account the richness of the issues that have been raised, not only during the intense, although concentrated, debate in the Commission, but above all in that confrontation which seemed to have emerged out of sensitivity from the senators themselves and senators, even regardless of their position as a majority or opposition. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u272	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u273	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u274	MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Mr President, I would like to ask whether the timing is optional or an undertaking... No, there is absolute respect for the times. Senator Cervellini received the six minutes from Senator De Petris, who gave up his intervention. MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Excuse me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u275	Mr President, I believe that today is not a good day for the Italian institutions. It is not for the government that announced the law of stability to us as the real turning point in its economic policy; it is not for Parliament, which sees its role objectively mortified; it is not for the parties, which only six months ago gave rise to a broad majority with the aim of gathering all the forces and energies necessary to face the economic crisis with strong decisions, with reforms which, although having an immediate political cost, are the indispensable condition for giving our country a new prospect of growth and, consequently, sustainability of debt and stability of public finances. Unfortunately, today we have to see that this has not happened. Last night, in the Committee on Budgets, Mr Azzollini, after a tireless work, his own and the rapporteurs, although sometimes carried out a little too much in the secret rooms and a little too little within the Commission, had to declare his surrender, because, after a month of work done precisely in the reserved seats, between rapporteurs, government and ministerial bureaucracies, the President had to certify the inability of the two major parties to deliver to the House and to the public a clear text, discussed in a transparent way, containing solutions or at least the start to the solution of some of the problems that stifle the country, which block competitiveness and growth and make our society increasingly unfair. We expected a significant reduction in the tax wedge to support the increase in household purchasing power. We expected a significant reduction in corporate taxation and therefore a restructuring of taxation that would shift the load on assets and instead with the new tax, the IUC, we continue to exempt all the first houses regardless of their cadastral value, with a choice that we have opposed since the beginning. We expected a reduction in public expenditure with deep and incisive interventions on the mechanisms that feed it, without waiting for the now legendary Cottarelli, a new alibi for politics, to propose reforms that have been discussed for years and which are largely mature. We expected measures to liberalise markets and services: on this point, for example, we had proposed the completion of the liberalisation of the postal market, according to the indications of both the European Commission and our antitrust authority, but also in this case the Government has made a wall against an intervention that would have produced substantial tax revenues, even if it would have reduced the profits deriving from the monopoly rent of Poste italiani SpA. Of course, Poste might not have been able to enter Alitalia's capital, but the postal market would have been more open and competitive. We had proposed at least the experimental beginning of a reform of the labour market - the one that the Spaniards have achieved in the last two years and that, as the data on the recovery in that country tell us, they are bearing fruit - but on all these points we have not been given answers. In our view, this was a silence which reveals - this is our opinion - the lack of awareness that the crisis we are going through requires a radical change in budgetary policy and not a sort of inertia and coercion to repeat a model that no longer stands. The President of the Council had allowed us a government focused on politics, according to what Beniamino Andreatta said, without being involved and overwhelmed by politics. On the contrary, unfortunately, blocked by the torn internal crises of the parties, today the Government asks for the confidence of a majority that, after the announcement of the passage of Forza Italia to the opposition, has changed nature and must find again the meaning of its mission. As far as we are concerned, this mission - and we repeat this once again - can only be that of reforms, because, dear Deputy Minister Fassina, work is not created either with the integration fund or with public expenditure, for example the one devoured by municipal companies. Growth and work are done with reforms for productivity and competitiveness, because this has been the problem for fifteen years that does not make us take the path of growth. As the "Wall Street Journal" pointed out yesterday, Italy is the only country that has seen no improvement in its competitive position since the beginning of the crisis. For this reason, Civic Choice, after proposing the coalition contract a few months ago, today comes back to ask the President of the Council for an instrument that gives a clear perspective, that indicates in a precise way the things to do, the times to realize them and the drafts of law to approve. This is the way to prevent the positive effects of political stability from being neutralized or even reversed by prolonged immobility. The text of the maxi amendment is, in our view, a symptom of this risk. It was perhaps the last opportunity, at this stage of the government's action, to grasp some of the ideas that we had offered to the government in the course of the discussion. This disappoints us deeply and also bitters us a little, because we did not feel fully involved in the decision-making process. Today our vote will be in favour of trust and in favour of the Government, because we hope there will still be the possibility that this Government, even in view of the European Presidency, will understand that a real change of pace is needed. It is with this hope that we therefore vote for confidence, convinced that stability is a precious asset, provided it serves to bring the country out of the crisis and not to drug it, causing it to sink slowly. From tomorrow this is the contribution that can make sense to the participation of Civic Choice in the majority. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u276	Senator Puglisi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u277	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government after many years, the bill of stability does not provide for linear cuts, but seeks to carry out a work of restoring resources to school, university, research and culture, which actually began with the decrees-laws-of-making, "culture value", "school" and "IMU". I say this to those here in this House who have questioned it: President Letta is keeping his promise not to cut resources to these sectors essential for the growth of the country. In the bill of stability that we are about to approve is increased the Fund for the ordinary financing of universities of 150 million euros for 2014; 80 million euros are allocated to the university hospitals; there are important resources to support the national strategy of development of the inner areas of the Country, to rebalance the basic school services, where a forceful sizing school has left huge holes in the essential services; in the reduction of the remodulating expenses of the spending missions of each Ministry and intermediate consumption excludes the expenses of the Ministry of Education for research and innovation. Despite these positive measures, however, there remains a heavy trace of the cuts in previous governments, which still have an impact on the quality of the educational provision of schools, on the right to study, on the possibility of renewing the staff of universities and research due to the blockage of turnover. The blanket is short, very short, and if you pull it one way to cover your leg, you'll find a shoulder. If you give answers to those who are without income today, thanks to the levy on gold pensions to create a fund for exodus or from responses to socially useful workers, then other equally urgent and useful measures for the fight against poverty remain outside. We get it. As 7a However, we had focused on a few fundamental amendments, which unfortunately have not been passed. It is about the financing of the right to study: the previous Government had left for 2014 less than 13 million euros, refinanced in the decree-Law Carrozza with 100 million euros for scholarships, but still 54 to offer the same number of scholarships to the capable and deserving without means that must be able to reach the highest degrees of education. There is a lack of refinancing of basic research and scientific research, and not only because, without resources and with the blocking of turnover, the best skills of our young people flee abroad, but because we need to draw from the ingenuity of our young people that competitive advantage that serves our country in the global competition, in order to innovate the quality of our products also with applied and industrial research. We want to restore dignity to teachers and ATA staff by giving them the right economic recognition, instead of mortifying salary blocks. But we are confident that this Government - I address Minister Saccomanni and Deputy Minister Fassina - will continue to work in the House to find the necessary resources, continuing to work together. I hope that the next revision of state spending will not touch again - as has been done in the past - the resources of school, university and research, but it will reinvest valuable resources for the future of our young people. Finally, we can recover the territorial gaps that divide not only North and South of the country, but also Europe, if we no longer consider education spending a cost that weighs on debt, but a great investment to build for all boys and girls a full European citizenship. That is why we call on the Government to devote a specific session, during the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, on the work of young people and on education. Certain that these beliefs are also yours, we ask you to move forward and renew your confidence in achieving these goals. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u278	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bitonci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u279	Mr President, I would like to be clear, because we have heard all sorts of things these days. The law of stability arrived at the Budget Committee a month ago. For three weeks, apart from the apple tree, nothing has been done. As a League Group - Opposition Group - we had tabled 350 amendments. Too many? No, I would say no: we have tried to make our serious and constructive contribution to a maneuver born badly and ended worse. You asked us to reduce the number and we, in a diligent manner, have pointed out to you about twenty important amendments: Stability Pact, standard health costs, tax wedge, infrastructure, simplification, cutting red tape and taxes. No marchetta, as they say in parliamentary jargon. So far so good, but the amendments of the rapporteurs and the government did not arrive. Then, close to the fateful date of 27, here is the sudden acceleration: tabling amendments on some issues; Group leaders and government who already anticipate a vote of confidence in the House, with work still on the high seas in the Commission; amendments on the most important issues, such as that of the house, deposited only yesterday (repeat: only yesterday evening), after a month of unnecessary work. And what do you do? Try a night raid in the Commission and today in the House, compressing and canceling the legitimate role of the opposition. Mr President, there were still 1,000 amendments that have not been voted on, with essential economic issues that have not been addressed at all. There was only a hurry to arrive at the fateful day: see you tomorrow. It has gone wrong: in the Commission an unprecedented failure, which is the failure of your Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The most important measure, the law of stability, at a time of such a serious economic crisis, arrives here today without the mandate of the rapporteurs and with a maxi amendment that - we saw it two hours ago - is very inaccurate and ruffled, with gross errors and obvious discoveries. The haste is a bad counselor. Mr President, there are no balances and there are no squares. Let us be clear: do not allow yourselves to say that it is the fault of the League, which has wanted to lengthen the times to force a shift in the vote on the decadence. President Zanda said that again this morning in the Commission. We do not allow you to say this lie. The reality is that you, only you (this varied majority and part of the opposition) have conditioned all the maneuvering on this issue. Not us. On the contrary, we are proud that we have managed to block this terrible law of stability in the Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There are 2 out of 28 in the Commission and 16 out of 315 in the House, but we have shown that this government no longer exists. Mr President, take note of this without blaming those who are democratically opposed to it. The North League will not vote for confidence in this measure. The law of stability could have been a heartbreak for growth. We could try to combat the contraction of consumption and cut real taxation on our businesses which - let us remember, Minister - exceeded 58 percent; we could cut the IRAP which is also paid on loss-making budgets; we could seriously deal with cutting the tax wedge. I said'seriously', Mr President, because 19 euros a month - 60 cents a day - for families are embarrassing: 60 cents a day is an offense to workers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Instead you have found the 110 million for the socially useful workers of Palermo and Naples, adding also those of Calabria. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] You found them as if the 3 million unemployed and exodates of the other parts of the boot were children of a minor god. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] You found them to please all your friends. I also remember the 140 million for the metanization of the Mezzogiorno (in the North, despite the different temperature, we paid for the metanizations). You have found 1.5 billion for the FAS funds; 320 million for the usual Salerno-Reggio Calabria motorway; 5 million for the olive bacterium of Salento; one million for the ICE Agency for scholarships. These are just a few examples, and there is even worse: the cut of the tax system facilitated to the productive districts that you, Minister, know that they are exclusively to the North; the repeal of the norm introduced by us to attract investments in our country and the elimination of the facilities that have favored the generational transition between the enterprises. They are yet another snatch to the production North, to our economy and to our enterprises. Mr President, if you accept this: your majority no longer exists and you have failed even the most important examination for the country. If there's instability and recession, it's all your fault. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u280	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u281	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, there are hours of excitement in this House, but even more so, it is hours of excitement and fever in the minds of our fellow citizens who look to us, who are asking for answers. It is a question of hope, of the future that is too often mortified and ignored. The crisis has hit hard in recent years. When he closes a company, he loses his job, he renounces his studies, he loses the greatest good on which each of us can count: to realize his own life project. What you have inside, the talent, the energy, the will to put yourself and others at stake is the most precious deposit, the golden reserve of our Republic, is human capital that becomes social cohesion, quality and well-being that become gross domestic product. But it's not the story of these years. We're living another one, and we don't like it at all. When the crisis strikes, it leaves a soil of wounds, scars, frustrations. They were once hopes, to which our democracy did not correspond. The mistrust that we live in institutions lies here, in the end, in the betrayed promise that we can have a better future than our fathers had. And how much does it cost to our economy, to our ability to compete, to exclude millions of people from being able to express themselves fully? There is a figure that says the enormity of all this: in recent years in Italy absolute poverty has doubled, there are five million people who live on the margins and among them many children and children in families who can not make it, without adequate meals, without adequate housing, without adequate clothes, without expectations and confidence adapted to the talent they have. And it takes little to slip, we know: an illness, an accident, the loss of work; and they are increasingly, in a country that has stopped investing in work for decades, those who are poor even if they are not unemployed. Over the years, too little has been done and too many have been voted on, but when you go down below the threshold you have no voice, no lobbying, and you often consider the journey from your home to the electoral seat too expensive. The crisis we are experiencing is the result of enormous injustices, it is the failure of an overturned model, capable of generating and concentrating enormous riches and at the same time of dividing, of multiplying exponentially exclusion and marginality. Today we need a new pact, we need it in Italy and Europe. In this law of stability so controversial, so difficult to adopt, however, there are signs of discontinuity with a season of rigour without equality and without development. Support for work and low incomes, credit for businesses and local authorities, social security and the right to study are signs of finding the way that we need. And then there is a first, very important step that I want to stress here: specific resources to experiment with an instrument of fight and fight against poverty, which relaunches what they have done in recent months (and I want to thank them, together with the associations of the third sector) Minister Giovannini and Deputy Minister Guerra to fill a gap, to start from us, as there is in the rest of Europe, finally a national project of support and active inclusion to overcome the condition of absolute poverty. Not welfare measures, but a pact between the institutions and the citizen to return to work and study, to come back to believe in themselves and in democracy. It is a battle that the Democratic Party has carried out in recent weeks. I want to thank President Zanda, Senator Santini and all the groups that supported our amendment. I would also like to thank the Government, in particular Deputy Minister Fassina, for tenaciously believing in this. On 2 October in this House, Enrico Letta called for a renewed confidence in his Government and wanted to highlight the importance of a universal instrument of helping families more in difficulty that would affect child poverty, particularly in large metropolitan areas. Here we are today (and I conclude, Mr President), we can say that that trust has been well placed and that this Government deserves to do more. Find this Government more courage and determination to choose to stand on the side of those who daily deal with the crisis. This is the mandate that we once again deliver and renew today. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u282	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u283	Mr President, our decision to adversely judge the law of stability is a matter of fact. I think, first of all, of the same way with which the debate was conducted today, certainly according to custom, since the maxiemamentamenti are not a novelty of 26 November 2013: the confusion that accompanied the passages of these hours finds precedents, but today we beat the record. There is no clarity in the figures, there is no clarity in the choices. There are a number of clientele choices - and I am also addressing the Minister for Economic Affairs - and there is the acquisition of certain parliamentary votes through some precise indications of the maxi amendment. There are spending choices that have names and surnames, even in the parliamentary classrooms, in order to have a number of votes: it is a strategy for transforming Italy a few decades ago, indeed, a century ago. We contest some very precise passages. The Monti government had also introduced among the police forces the turnover block, which instead the Berlusconi governments had always excluded, applying it to the public employment with the exclusion of the security and defence sector. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, in this House we voted on an agenda shared by everyone, unanimously, which I myself tabled, which committed the Government to guarantee 100% of the turnover in 2014 for the police forces: there was Minister D'Alia in this House to represent the Government. The Stability Act introduced a few minor changes, but in the debate in the Budget Committee the amendments tabled by our Group, which I signed first, were ignored in order to ensure an increase in the replacement of police forces. The Minister of the Interior Alfano like me will have read yesterday the interview given to a newspaper by the head of the Police Pansa who, precisely with reference to the staff, Minister of the economy, has declared to have enormous difficulties. This fact has also been ignored by the Government. The head of the police - with whom, together with other security authorities, I had the opportunity to confront myself in these weeks before tabling the amendments - is not a party, but one of the vital ganglia of the life of the State. However, the Government did not want to address this issue in the Budget Committee. As for the house - our accounts and figures will prove this - President Letta, there is the betrayal of the commitments that you yourself had made in this House about a different and less exotic taxation. We are still waiting for that Council of Ministers to tell us how to cover the second instalment of the 2013 IMU; we do not yet know what will happen with the IMU on the agricultural funds. So, while there is still no clarity about 2013, we are witnessing a betrayal of the commitments made on the house for 2014 and for the years to follow. It is said that we will vote no because we are in opposition and we are extremists. In recent days I have participated in numerous meetings of category: the president of the Confession building Sforza Fogliani, the president of the Confagricoltura Mario Guidi, the president of the ANCE (the Association of Manufacturers), Paolo Buzzetti, have had very strict words regarding the choices of the Government regarding the IMU and the economic policy as a whole, and are not dangerous extremists. Trade unions dispute, and also dispute Confindustria, which is governmental by nature, because entrepreneurs must dialogue with the Government. In an editorial that last Sunday also the government representatives will have read on "Il Sole 24 Ore" (The Sun 24 Hours), which is certainly not an extremist newspaper, director Roberto Napoletano wrote an article that begins with a few lines that I remember more or less by heart: Enrico Letta completely drops the law of stability; make a line and start again. Therefore, we are not in the company of extremists; we are in the company of the head of the police, of the presidents of trade associations, of representatives of trade unions, of citizens' organizations, of editorialists and commentators of various kinds, who are much more serious and credible than this Government, which we have supported in hopes of doing good things. Annaspa drowns today with this major amendment of the betrayal of commitments and total confusion. It will be an honor to stand out in the vote by clearly saying that Italy needs a no and that it is not servility to the Government and the armchairs. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u284	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u285	Mr President, at last, after a strange and convulsive labour, the infamous law of stability has been given birth. The Italians certainly did not expect a maneuver with confidence. But then the trust of what and to whom above all? This financial maneuver you of the majority and you of false oppositions have turned it into a farce that does not cheer anyone. And this confidence is confirmation. This is not the law of stability, but the demonstration of the instability of our country, of the instability of this Executive and, unfortunately, of the state budget. We must be honest: in Italy public policies are now stagnating in a worrying way. Education loses ground in relation to the other functions of public spending; research is financed by telephone prefix rates; health care is paid in emergency conditions such as to condition the development of the country and even projects that require a time horizon that exceeds the electoral deadline are mortified by those who decide. Only the Italian people know what the crisis is, because it is experiencing it and they also know that this, together with the regressive-recessive trend, is the result of complex transformations and macroeconomic drifts that are reflected on a inversely proportional capacity for action and impact of political governance. Just browse through the yearbooks ISTAT and the newspapers of recent weeks to see the portrait of our beautiful country: yes, a country that has the highest aging index in Europe and more than half of the population dissatisfied with its economic condition; a country that struggles to project itself into the future with confidence; that ages, poor and increasingly inadequate, that lives on the day, and in which we remain eternally young only from the working point of view; a country that grows negative; that produces books but that reads so little to have indices of scary illiteracy; that looks too much soap opera, that sinks into bureaucracy; that focuses on high speed when there are no efficient trains or highways in the South; that has the least paid teachers in Europe. Not to mention that this Italy is the same in which colleagues live who no longer love the sea and its beaches, who prefer the mountains and the CAI, or Ministers who reduce funding to the police. The truth is that we are in a sick mechanism, which does not work, in which we chase, in a spiral without a solution of continuity, recession and maneuvers, maneuvers and recession, and in which austerity makes impossible both the zeroing of the deficit and the reduction of the debt. We must react by exercising the courage of ideas and a series of investments, not only in the short term, but also in the medium and long term. By now it should be clear to everyone the overall effect of the maneuvers that have followed - from linear cuts to spending review - and above all the corrective maneuvers underlying them, which have not breathed the economy as we hoped. On the contrary, public debt continues to grow, taxes and unemployment increase and the economic capacity of households and hence consumption decreases. Let us not forget that not working means doing debts; doing debts means tearing a person apart; and sooner or later this person will get sick. For this reason, the sustainability of the National Health Service is important, indeed priority, which cannot be guaranteed with continuous cuts that risk instead of leading to a decrease in the provision of services and services with the consequent increase of social distress. The appropriations and measures envisaged in the field of health have proved inadequate and inadequate in order to meet objectives such as health planning of the essential levels of care. But let alone if you are concerned about the health problem! You're interested in having useless discussions, deceiving, flirting! We now understand why audiovisual advertising of the Commission's work in the referee is excluded. We understand this: it is not appropriate to show this petty spectacle to Italian citizens. Let us all say that the debate that characterized this financial year was under the control of the hiccups and regurgitation of the members of the right-wing, left-wing parties and the new-born Centrodestra. Know that we of the 5 Star Movement have not been frightened by the more than 3,000 amendments that have been tabled, but more than two thirds from you who support the majority and often the result of a copy and paste of measures rejected in the past. In truth, we have only disgusted ourselves with the monster that advances without shame and that hovers over this maneuver. This monster is called indecency: yes, it is an indecency not to have accepted our common sense amendments and in favour of a better country. After all, we didn't ask you that much. We only wanted reclamation in the land of the fires in Campania. We proposed the abolition of IRAP for companies with less than ten employees: and you played down to five and then failed everything. We asked you to protect researchers and PhD students. We asked you to delete the safeguard clause you had inserted to cover the nefariousness of " mister spending review." We have asked you to protect the right to justice and the defence of the poorest citizens. We have tormented you with amendments aimed at reducing golden pensions, but as always you have been deaf. We have even suggested variations in the table because we have considered your proposals for authorisation of expenditure in favour of non-state schools scandalous, inviting you, instead, to allocate those resources for the realization in public schools of educational technologies, for disability and for pupils suffering from autism. To these children, their parents, their families and all the citizens of Italy, I urge you to apologize. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u286	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u287	Mr President, the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura had indicated some very precise points that had to be included in this law of stability. Among these points was the decrease in real estate taxation and this was the commitment made by the Government since 29 April and reiterated at the debated confidence of 2 October. In fact, the taxation on real estate - that is on the house - will reach 30 billion, when at the time of Monti it was 24 billion and at the time of Berlusconi it was less than 11 billion. So yes, of course, there has been an intervention on taxation on the house: to increase it in a wild way. We had called for stronger action on the tax wedge and VAT, and there were only a very small amount left. We called for the return of VAT to 21% in 2014 and 20% in 2015 (today it is 22%) and we also tabled an amendment that was specifically rejected. We had asked to raise the limit to the circulation of cash to attract money that could end up in the coffers of our stores and, consequently, in the taxes that they then pay, but it is not expected; so we will have many moneyy customers who could come to make tourism in our country that will come to our country, will be there as little as possible and then the purchases will go to make them in other countries where they accept the cash. We had called for the development and privatisation of bathing establishments in order to give new resources to the state, to be able to intervene in favour of tourism and other sectors and to fill the coffers of the state that really need them, and nothing has been done. We had asked for a number of other things, in particular a focus on the security sector, which sees, due to the scarcity of resources and staff, its fundamental function of ensuring the safety of citizens is compromised, and nothing has been done. Many parcel interventions have been made, many ad personam interventions probably to win the vote of individual senators or senators. What is worse, however, is that instead of engaging in recovery, we are increasingly moving towards recession, towards the loss of productivity and jobs. This not only translates into a year's delay, but also makes you miss the opportunity to climb up the slope, to hook up the famous shot. However, we are losing something even more valuable: we are losing the state status and - I say more - Parliament where the law applies, where the rule of law applies. Unfortunately, every rule is overwhelmed, every day the rules are overwhelmed. This evening a technical report was presented which has nothing to do with the text presented. There are numbers that have nothing to do with the text presented. I observe one very trivial thing: the technical report, a constitutional requirement - as has been said - to be able to examine a draft budget law today, ends with an amendment: amendment 17.48; the subsequent articles, those from 18 to 26, are not covered by any report. I do not understand how we can say that this is a satisfactory report! For the first time since time immemorial, perhaps forever, we have come to the examination of the bill of stability in the House without rapporteur. These things can happen, even if they have never happened, but for the first time we get to this House without a rapporteur, we put our trust and do so by including amendments that have just been tabled in the Commission, never discussed, and even completely innovative amendments. On the other hand, the Government has indisputably chosen to remove from the text certain amendments which had been adopted in the Commission by a majority with very regular votes. When last year we examined the draft law of reform of the Constitution, the possibility was hypothesized by the Government, reached at some point in the discussion of a bill, to return - as it were - to zero pretending that the votes already expressed had never existed. I thought that this was a coercion, that it was an excessive power of the Government aimed at reducing the prerogatives of Parliament. If that proposal had been approved, the Constitution would have changed: the Constitution is always that, but the Government has actually acted as if it had been profoundly innovative. I remember the severe warnings coming from very high institutional positions when the Berlusconi government in one of the maximendament added perhaps a few lines, a paragraph often quite marginal [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] in relation to what had been approved in the Commission and validated by the award of the mandate to the rapporteur. In this case, whole articles have been transformed into dozens of paragraphs contained in an indecent (even from the formal point of view), maxi amendment; whole articles never seen by the 5th Commission and also all other amendments have not been validated with the assignment of the mandate to the rapporteur. A systematic contempt for the rules that is most dangerous! Those who today have the majority and think they are legitimated to do this because of the numbers must remember that, when the rules are violated once, then they can be violated again and perhaps in an even more violent way, and the victims are often the very first to have violated them. Those who introduced the guillotine into France ended up beheaded under the guillotine. I hope that these things will not happen in our country and that after this moment of systematic assault on legality (of which tomorrow we will have another horrendous wise), to the right and the rules there may be a change that allows us to return to the respect of the rules and to a policy that serves the citizens with transparency and not present of the horrendous, illegible amendments. All those who vote for Amendment No 1,900, gentlemen of the remaining majority, will do so in full awareness of what it contains. I hope this will change. Otherwise our country is headed towards a slope that can only lead to the worst and catastrophe. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Volpi and Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u288	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u289	Mr President, Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an economic crisis that has produced social crises and new poverty, unemployment at unthinkable levels and widespread distrust in the recovery which becomes a further element of destabilisation. It is an economic crisis, but also a cultural one. We will never be out of the crisis if in the recovery, which will come in any case (we trust that it will come), the four negative conditions that represent the cancer of Italy will once again pass on track: an unbearable burden of our bureaucracy, a tax evasion of 120 billion, a public and private corruption of 60 billion and an organized crime of 150 billion. These are not ethical issues, but economic efficiency, loyalty to the state, respect for the community and social cohesion. This must be the big bet on which our party is sure, but also the government that is the expression of it will have to commit with the next regulatory measures to turn that reality upside down. These data place us in shameful positions in the international assembly, which describe Italy as a country of evaders and corrupts. Of course, in this still very critical context in Italy, huge conflicts are exploding and a worrying contrast between those who have social protection - although often insufficient - and those who do not have any protection: young people, atypical workers, the unemployed or, again, those who no longer seek employment. Subjects that seem invisible, but sometimes (more and more often) materialize in the squares to protest or, and I don't know if it is even worse, dematerialize, emigrate, leave, seek other places to live. Minister, the law of stability, even in these times so grim, could have given the country a message a little'stronger, that is that Italy still focuses on young people and social groups in great difficulty and that on these chooses to invest more resources than those that have been partly invested (I do not say that the attention has not been at all). These are the weakest links, although they are the most valuable, the sacrificial victims of strategies and policies that have been insufficient over the years and have not yet been totally reversed in the proposed stability bill. I regret the fact that we have not looked at them in this measure, and I therefore ask - we ask many of you - for greater attention to be paid to the future. The situation is worrying. It worries families, who spare for their children and grandchildren and therefore do not consume for prudence, as well as for need; those families that keep their children as long as they are too adults, those families that certainly provide when they can to their needs, but that first no longer believe in the future of their children and that for the first time they see their children with less prospects than they have had. Of course, this bill of stability, which has also tried to respond in some way - I say this - to the drama of the moment, as we have heard from Deputy Minister Fassina, with the partial unblocking of the Stability Pact, the first interventions on the tax wedge, the refinancing of the integration fund, the funds for non-self-sufficiency, the interventions on so-called golden pensions, but it does not address at all or almost at all or in an insufficient way to those citizens. We must take note of this, even if - I say this now - I will be among those who will obviously vote on the trust and will therefore allow the country to have its fundamental measure, what it needs to go on. However, I can only express dissatisfaction with the result produced, even with all the somewhat wasted work we have done and with the rejection of some of the amendments that were trying to give answers in this direction. Perhaps this was a missed opportunity. Other choices could also have been made to give the sign of wanting to turn to those fronts that will help us - I am sure - to shape the rebirth of our country. I am referring to investment in innovation, research, small and medium-sized enterprises, in the field of school, university and public scientific research, which has once again been cut off (yes, Minister, it has been cut off). None of the amendments that had been prepared and promoted by the PD were accepted, even if only to reconstitute what was in the previous years. In particular, while appreciating the Government's efforts, we would have expected a greater commitment (even if there is) to the Credit Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, which could well be drawn from the Structural Funds. We would have liked a strong signal with significant investments in the field of training, specific interventions in the school-work sector, because this will be the perspective to give young people a different image of their future, to enhance also the professionalism typical of our country and promote them among young people, trying to give the right emphasis to the areas that can lead to growth for the country, that is environment, culture, agriculture and quality productions: everything that will have to contribute to promoting the brand Italy and that once again is not treated sufficiently even in this measure. The search for excellence, investment in universities and public research institutions have therefore been overlooked. Too little, Minister: that's where we play the competition; that's where a country grows structurally; that's where we make our young competent and competitive in the international relationship. This has left us disappointed; however, we believe that all this can and must be recovered. Of course, it was difficult to achieve a better result - I am aware of this - in this political situation, in a poisoned climate such as the one we live in, in which a part of the majority today even decides to move on to the opposition, a new event. I do not have much parliamentary experience, but, in short, that the day of the vote of the bill of stability is passed to the opposition I think it is an interesting innovation that will be reported in the history books. The mediation between parties that have different references and ideas that are far from similar on the priorities for the country is really complicated, even impossible sometimes; therefore, in the coming months the effort will have to be enormous in order to reach results that give a real turning point to the country. We are told that the recovery is beginning to come to light, but we will certainly have to revisit our relationship with Europe and we will have to try to face poverty, invest in welfare and health, but above all give a recognizable appearance to these measures, relying with greater conviction on the innovative enterprise - as I said - and on our young people, with measures on employment and training. I am also referring to civil service: they expected some resources on civil service many, many, many young people, but also this did not come. So we can work - and we will do it later, we will ask you - on training internships, always in the perspective I was talking about. Of course, it will be difficult times, but this is the bet that we ask of you and that together with you we will carry on, the commitment on which we must play the game of development and growth without hesitation, with determination, because time is an essential variable in the conditions of crisis: do, do quickly and do well. We in the PD will be there, Minister, thanks to that sense of responsibility which in these hours is completely lacking - I must stress this - to a political force that has not been scrupulous, in the name of partisan interests, to abandon the governing body during the debate on the bill of stability, and I believe that citizens have all the elements to judge behaviour. However, the bitterness remains in my mouth, and I must say this, because of the endless mediations that have been made, amendment by amendment, during the nights in the Budget Committee for choices that we had had to accept. We have accepted many things and perhaps it remains the regret of a law of stability that under political conditions of different alliances could perhaps have been better. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u290	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u291	Mr President, Mr Saccomanni, members of the Government, fellow senators, Mr Di Giorgi is right when she says that citizens will be able to judge who works for their own good and who does not work for their own good, but for the maintenance of the status quo. In fact, the same name of the law of stability appears more like an adjustment of accounts than as an appointment of strategic value, what must be the approval of the budget of the state and of the measures around the almost annual conclusion of the renewed pact between state and citizens. A pact that, as mentioned in previous speeches, should have contained the underlying economic issues on which the PdL had given the vote of confidence to the nascent Letta Government. There were ten, but I remember only the three most important ones: the elimination of taxes on the house, the easing of the tax burden and the reduction of taxes on labour (the so-called tax wedge). We do not understand, but it seems that these issues are not covered by this maneuver. The initial text presented by the Government included 3,000 proposals for amendments, bearing in mind the fact that the House considered it to be unsatisfactory and very inadequate. To table a large amendment today in the absence of a sufficient technical report and immediately after asking for confidence, it means forcing the majority to approve the text that cannot be amended, subtracting Parliament from the noble and democratic function that the Constitution before and the people after have assigned to it. In particular, nothing is known about the reduction of public debt, a factor that has a heavy impact on the future of the country for the consequent interest payments, and on the reduction of expenditure. In this sense, I consider the matter under discussion to be, rather than the law of stability, the law of lost opportunities: we have lost the opportunity to re-establish a clear and transparent relationship between the administration and the citizen, based on mutual respect. It is difficult to give a vote of confidence for the above considerations. The only personal doubt is the measures in favour of Sardinia for the flood emergency, for which the state of natural disaster has been declared and granted by the Council of Ministers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Floris, I invite you to conclude. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, but in that case I will announce that I will give my speech in order to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. The only thing I want to say is that the debate on this law of stability has been compressed because, obviously, in this House, some senators have more interest in what will happen tomorrow, in the vote on the decadence of Senator Berlusconi, and they do not know, as we and the Italians are certain, that he will be able to decline from the position of Senator, but he does not fall from the role of maximum leader of the centre-right, of Forza Italia and of the people of moderate Italians. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by confirming my request that the remaining part of my speech be delivered.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u292	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u293	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u294	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Verducci reminded us, on 2 October, in this very Chamber, the President-in-Office of the Council, Enrico Letta, asked for trust, wanted to recall the words of Luigi Einaudi: In the lives of nations, the error of not being able to grasp the moment can be irreparable. With these words, President Letta asked the Senate for a trust to foil a risk that could be fatal, irremediable for the country. On that occasion, he asked for confidence to build tangible solutions to the real problems of people, to try to foster a renewed confidence in politics, to restore to the world the image of a young, dynamic and reliable country. These are the words of the President-in-Office of the Council. Nice words, fallen into the wind. The country is like a ship at the mercy of the storm: he is at the helm of this ship, but he has lost course. Meanwhile, the country is sinking. The answers to the country's problems had to come from the law of stability. A month's work in the Commission which has served absolutely nothing but today's demand for trust. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On 2 October last, President Letta urged Parliament to abandon its trench policy. Right, but the problem is another: the problem is the government's inability to give the answers that the country needs so much. As an opposition we have worked in the Commission to make our constructive contribution in trying to improve the law of stability, but we have been denied it: our proposals have been systematically deleted, all or almost all. Were they that inadmissible? Absolutely not. The problem is simple, Mr President. His fine words are not followed by deeds. Yours is always and only a welfare policy and the EUR 110 million for socially useful workers in the Mezzogiorno is the most obvious example of this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It's a shame! We ask ourselves, Mr President, what world do you live in? But do you not understand that the so-called problem of the Mezzogiorno is now not just a problem of the Mezzogiorno, but of the whole country? There is no longer a northern issue and a southern issue: we are all on the same ship that is inexorably sinking (not in the water) and President Letta, he is the captain of this ship, but unfortunately we understand that the route is lost. So, President Letta, let us give you a tip: go to Europe with authority and determination, bring your steel balls if you really have them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Tell your German and French friends this bloody Stability Pact is killing our country. He's killing him! My colleagues in general have well represented how much the law of stability does not, in essence, respond to the responses that the country asks for, to the needs of the country. Little stuff and bad, but in addition to the substance it is also the method that leaves us disappointed. You are a closed government, which does not have the will (and perhaps not even the numbers) to be able to discuss peacefully with the oppositions. It took only a few hours, not of hard opposition, but of normal contradiction to the Commission to send you into the balloon. And don't tell us that the League has obstructed: we spent a month trying to make our contribution to this maneuver in a purposeful and sensible way, but we were not heard! You don't understand anything! You have not understood that our demands are the demands of the Italian companies and families that suffer and from your Government have only one certainty: new taxes. Gentlemen of the Government, President Letta, on 2 October you illuded not only Parliament, but the Italians asking for a trust for Italy, for Italians and for Italians, a trust for all those who expect from Parliament, institutions and politics behaviors, words according to which to guide their own choices and on which to base what we have the duty to give back to our children: hope. No hope, Mr President, just a certainty: nothing has changed, just promises as a sailor! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u295	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u296	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my gratitude to the members of the Budget Committee for the work they have done in the Commission, first of all to your President, the Senate Offices and the two rapporteurs, but also to the members of the Government who have participated in these weeks by making a major contribution to a Commission whose work may have deserved a different outcome. I listened to the intervention in the Chamber of Vice-Minister Fassina, who passionately stressed the most significant aspects of a measure that we will vote together with the confidence of this Government tonight. There is an attempt to reverse the trend and he has enlightened himself considering that with this document there will be a help to the real economy of the country, finally with a tax reduction for the enterprises and the families with the lowest incomes; he emphasized with such emphasis the refinancing of the Central Guarantee Fund that he looks with a prevalent attention to the Mezzogiorno. (21.19) (Follow SHAVONE). But I wonder if that is enough or perhaps we risk not focusing the fundamental problem of this country. It is from the beginning of this legislature, from the day of the consultations of President Letta onward, that we try to emphasize that the Government must have a fundamental interest and must courageously pursue a plan for the South, which, assuming a strong anti-conjunctural weight, becomes the basis of an overall development project for the country. We are about to vote on a law of stability that may lead to a reduction of costs, to unchanged balances, but the great pressure that we are experiencing from Europe risks at the same time, with guilty indifference, to continue on the slope of the continuous impoverishment towards which this country has been going for too many years now. I would like to give an example for everyone, although perhaps it is a marginal example, recalling the way in which the universities of the Mezzogiorno are being treated. The continuing decrees issued by Minister Carrozza testify to the difficulty of correctly perceiving a territorial policy and they are presented as due due to pressure the account of which must be presented to Europe. Precisely at a time when competitive identity, responsible socio-economic development and the well-being of citizens are closely related, we would have expected a law of stability oriented primarily to a genuine revival of the enterprise, in all its forms: of the large enterprise, of the small and medium-sized enterprise, of the cooperative enterprise, of the manufacturing sectors, traditional and innovative, as well as of the production chains, with a specific attention to a mix of agriculture, crafts, tourism and industry, having as its objective the economic growth, the creation of skilled employment and the protection of social equality. We cannot fail to denounce the choices of the Government, which in fact ultimately dump the financial tensions on the Regions, putting in place a kind of federalism in which mayors will have to impose taxes, with the risk of an overall increase in taxation, instead of a rationalization of public spending. This law of stability forgets a third of Italy and condemns the administrations of the South to a sort of condition of shipwreck and drift. We were deluded that it was possible to give this law an arrangement for which the South was not always penalized. We were deluded that it was possible to give this law a strategic horizon. In my opinion, the strategic horizon should be that of a structural equalization, with a series of initiatives that allow to spend less and to spend better: they are two conditions that are not in contradiction, provided that you know how to use the rules that apply to all and you have the courage to monitor the quality of the expenditure and its results, measuring them with the technique of the objectives of service rather than with the ones equal, modifying them, widening them and if necessary adjusting them, but having references and a homogeneous indicator of the expenditure and the quality of the results achieved in our country. I mean, we can do a lot of things. What do we ask of this Government first of all? We've done it many times. This evening we strongly ask, despite the difficult intercourse in the Commission, that the Government should be endowed with a plan of the South, but not like that - for goodness sake, it was a commendable initiative - launched in 2011, imbued with a series of prejudices and commonplaces that have led to the axiom "lots of money in the South, few spent and therefore can withdraw behind." What has been achieved? Basically there has been the collapse of companies and the growth of that reality and a contrast - I greatly appreciated Crosio - between southern and northern reality, as if the bad expenditure, which also has been for large responsibilities of many in the Mezzogiorno area, has been itself the reason for the crisis of the production worlds of the North, and not rather the lack of an industrial strategy, which our country has not been able to adopt in these years, as well as the pressure suffered by Europe, determining the result that today surrounds negatively North and South. The South has always been the litmus test of this country. Today I want to recall the reinterpretation made by some historians of the development of Italy. I want to recall the southernist policy (but not of the South), which saw in this reality an opportunity - as Saraceno today emphasizes us - to rebalance the diversity of a territory that, until the seventies, made a rural country become a great industrial power of the world. Today we need this. We need the Government to be courageous and to commit itself, at the level of the Presidency of the Council, together with the Ministries for Infrastructure and Economy, to a great strategy for the development of the country that departs from the Mezzogiorno. We have asked and requested - this time is the last - a technical table that can deal with this matter; a technical table that, thanks to the comparison of national policies with regional ones, allows first of all to correct all those indicators that SVIMEZ, ISTAT and other research bodies and universities tell us are the condition of great difficulty and of involution of the South; a table in which we can also talk about tax advantage. Sardinia has adopted a junta resolution. Sardinia had started together with Sicily - this regional government then stopped that path - a development reasoning with Europe, thinking also of tax free zones, with the direct interlocation between the island world and Europe. We need attention that allows real development and integration, and I am concerned about the world of precariousness which has been so painfully maintained in this condition. I hope that finally this Government will have the courage to take on the role of great novelty and rereading the difficulties of the country. Of all this, our attempt not to remove the Mezzogiorno from the country's political agenda has remained too little in this law, and let me say it with the pride of those who at least want to save their dignity. What remains is our sense of responsibility and for this sense of responsibility Senator Companione and I will vote for trust in the Government. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Compagnone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u297	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u298	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly in a delicate and important phase of the country's life, but like all difficult seasons, this phase must be dealt with with with a sense of responsibility, putting in place not pessimisms and defeatisms, but positive tensions, unleashes of enthusiasm and dedication to the cause and, therefore, to the country. It is with this intent that the New Right Center faces this new season, in an alliance of broad understandings that can be truly such until it is the alliance of individual claims: this is the fundamental difference that will have to distinguish the new season of this Government. It starts from a law of stability where the elements and the ferments of innovation are all grasped, and I must say, thanking President Azzollini and my colleague Santini, who were all emphasized during the debate in the Commission, and many have been consolidated by the results of the debate in the Commission and transposed into the text of the Government. Let us think, for example, of the initiatives on guarantee and development funds: never in my memory in the financial manoeuvres - I have done so many, perhaps I am the one that has done most of them in this House - had so many resources been included in the development funds with the mechanism of the multiplier of guarantee funds and trusts; it is EUR 800 million that will be able to develop at least 16 billion credits and investments. Never in the season of the last governments had a measure been adopted, which is not of this financial, but certainly fundamental for the future of the country, like that of the 40 billion for the payment to the creditor companies of the public administration. Never before had we faced an emergency in the immediacy and respond within twenty-four hours, as happened for the emergency of Sardinia, recovering 100 million euros real and assigning them thus to that Region, to whose state of difficulty we have associated and we associate with great friendship and a sense of solidarity. We have made a strong intervention in the field of infrastructure and road haulage. You see, Senator Di Giorgi, you said that you were surprised that in one day a political force, or part of it, would pass from the majority to the opposition, but we who have some experience, even with regard to our colleagues in this same political part, have already felt for days that this would happen. We have warned him in the proposition of modificative proposals of a purely opposition type, of that demagogy that we are accustomed to seeing in all oppositions of any political color, that is those proposals that are unrealizable, and unacceptable, but certainly of suggestive impact on citizens. I am thinking of the lowering of two points of VAT and the lowering of the tax burden, that is, those things that make hold, but that, being unrealizable, are not by government force, but by pure force and typical of the opposition. Therefore, we had understood this and we had the confirmation when yesterday, in order to vote against the Government and the majority in the Commission, this part of political force has even voted against the maneuver in favor of the road haulage, that it has been one of the traditional sectors of electorate of reference of the centerright. It is now, of course, still a centre-right, because there is a part of the centre-right that has promoted its defence and, through the Letta-Alfano agreement with transporters and the sanction in the Commission (and therefore today in the law of stability), has confirmed its content. So, we understood that very well and we are convinced that this is the right path. Friends of Forza Italia, this is not the Forza Italia that I knew twenty years ago: the Forza Italia of enthusiasm, hope, liberal sense, tolerance, dialogue and love for citizens, even at the cost of giving up something. It is not this and today you perfectly interpreted, instead, the typical part of the livorous opposition and without any constructive contribution. But let us go on, instead, with the things that we have achieved and with those that we intend to achieve in this short part of the legislature, because we are convinced that this is a transitional legislature and that tomorrow, once the political climate has been calmed down, we will also be able to distinguish, as we want, between different ideologies and values, but always in good faith, according to the moral and political patrimony of each of us. We have started an important manoeuvre in the fiscal part, we have also called for the inclusion, precisely according to that concept of broad agreements that must not consist in individual claims, but in a meeting of ideas, of some strong points of the programmes of the center-right, such as that of fiscal tolerance, with the introduction of a new and further opportunity for the extinction of the tax debt of the Italians, which we know is in many cases a debt of necessity and not a debt of evasion or a lack of willingness to pay taxes. We have also launched, beyond what is said in the agencies and in the formidable construction of numerical multipliers, a new policy of taxation on the house, simpler, clearer, more direct, with precise exclusion from the taxation of the first house and with precise orientation, instead, not towards taxation but towards the contribution of the citizen to the services that the municipalities make. Not for nothing, apart from the figures that are built with the multiplier and that are outside of any reality, our maneuver on the house today is annoying, I would say indeed the strong irritation of the Municipalities that are the ones that have to use this taxation and that they thought and maybe think they can still continue to spend without roofs, like those that we instead obtained today that imposed themselves on the taxation of buildings and services. One of the results that I consider most important, in fact, even if you may not have read it among the lines of the new legislation, is the imposition by 2016, for some taxes that today are homeless, the observance of the standard costs and therefore the observance of the true relations between the service and the cost of an efficient management then to be shared among the citizens. We have also introduced 500 million deductions on taxation for services, in such a way that the weakest social groups may not pay anything or pay marginally; we have introduced for the first time in this law of stability, increasing it in the Commission on the impetus given initially by the Government, the deduction of taxation on industrial plants. Certainly it could not be done at 100% (this is a purely demagogic proposal or aimed at captivating the sympathy of one or the other category, which is made by those who are typically opposed and loses the sense of concreteness and politics, which is the art of possible, of dialogue and always find the best solutions, of course in good faith, that can be adopted). We have also introduced real elements of novelty in saving public expenditure. In fact, I agree with Senator Lanzillotta when she points her finger against waste and against many aspects that are still illiberal of our society and our economic structure, especially in the relationship between the public and the private, but this will be done and can be done gradually, without excess and with great determination and rigour. The companies involved must be reduced in size, the intermediate bodies must be abolished, the turnover in the public administration must be acquitted through the absorption of the staff of the bodies that must be closed and abolished, but above all it must be addressed in this country (sorry if every time I speak this button) the reorganization of the institutions in the territory. That is why I have proposed a number of speeches, which were then put on an agenda that I have tabled, which some might even consider provocative, but which are and must be discussed in the coming months, when we are dealing with major institutional reforms. We cannot continue to live with 20 Regions, 8,200 Municipalities and 110 Provinces in the process of dismantling, which are the real waste of the country. If we want to be reformers, we must really start a profound reform of the country's institutions: abolishing intermediate bodies, concentrating municipal realities on a scale and, for the economy and efficiency of services, the same regional realities in basins of users not less than 6-7 million inhabitants, thus leading our country to an authentic federalism at the territorial level and at the level of force that the same territories, not shattered in 100,000 institutions, can express. That is what we must start doing and we can do it, if we all together have the sense of responsibility not to send the country towards the crisis and not to let it proceed in the dark towards trials that we do not know where they can take us, defending it precisely through this attitude of tenacity. You see, Senator Crosio, I come from a city and a seafaring reality that much better than that from which you come can talk about ships, stormy seas and ways of leading the rudder and sails of the boats that face them: I assure you that the tenacity of the sailors is the one that always keeps the bar straight towards a goal, looking also at the possibility of helping someone who is in difficulty. We are convinced that we must work for the country and not create problems of crisis in the country at this moment, defending the legality, through our behaviour and also through our vote in this House on the law of stability. In the same way we intend to do tomorrow, in the face of a situation which we consider offensive to Italian democracy, such as that which President Berlusconi sees exposed to the risk of having to leave this Parliament, where we have been honored to sit with him and where we will be honored to continue to sit with him when he comes back. However, this does not mean abandoning the country to a crisis in the dark, of which we do not know what the developments could be, nor the dangers for Italy. We go forward in the interest of the country, always looking concretely, not only at the aspects we have mentioned, but also at the things that must be done. Certainly in the House this law of stability will have to be further improved. There are areas in which we have not been able to deal during these night hours in the Budget Committee, but which will certainly be taken into account in the House. Someone has delighted us and delights us, but de minimis is not curat praetor. We therefore go on our way, sure to operate in the interest of the country. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u299	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u300	Mr President, Minister, Vice-Minister, the other night in the Commission, Vice-Minister Fassina said that coverage is not only a technical fact, but also a political fact because, if you have 100 to finance, depending on the choices you make, you decide practically the political line of the Government. From this point of view, by looking at the text of the maxi amendment in a kind of game to discover the differences between the text of the law of stability and that of the maxi amendment, I have fallen my eye on paragraph 255, which refinances the so-called tip law. I wondered what the government's political line was then at this very difficult time for Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr President, I wanted to ask you to be able to deliver the written text of my speech, which is much longer, so that it can be annexed to the shorthand report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u301	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u302	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u303	Mr President, I believe that my group has only a few minutes, so I will try to be as quick as possible. Allow me only to call back to that country of Bengodi that used to tell us Senator D'Alì and to what writes the "Wall Street Journal" in these days, the most authoritative and important economic newspaper in the world, which poses a question to say the least embarrassing: Italy risks to arrive to a stability similar to that of a cemetery; because in our country we have made progress in repaying the public budget, but there is a great need for reforms, we are the only country in the South of Europe that has not increased its competitiveness and it is difficult to understand how, with a growth of 1% poor, we can focus European targets for debt (so not for the containment of expenditure, but for the absence of growth). That country which was described earlier is obviously not recognized by international observers and not even by national observers, since all representatives of the productive categories have spoken in very negative terms of this law of stability, and certainly not for captatio benevolentiae on our part. In order to remain in the country of Bengodi, Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to take advantage of this general debate, also in order to recall the issue that we addressed a few hours ago, namely the total correspondence between the text on which the Government, through Minister Franceschini, placed the trust and that series of amendments of the Government and of the rapporteurs or of the parliamentary amendments already voted...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u304	Sorry to interrupt, I wanted to tell you that the government's charts and the boiled technical report have arrived. I wanted to inform the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u305	I believe I interpret the thinking of all my colleagues in the Budget Commission in thanking you for doing so. I would ask you, however, to put to the record the fact that, in the maxi amendment on which we will vote in an hour's time the confidence in the Government, in paragraph 431 - Mr President, please listen to me just one minute - there is a text that has never been viewed by the Commission either as an amendment by the Government or as an amendment by the rapporteurs: then perhaps that is the Bingo and Bengodi to which Senator D'Ali referred before in describing the country in which he lives and where we are not lucky enough to live. To conclude and not take advantage of his patience, given the few minutes at my disposal, we think instead that with this law of stability (although personally appreciating the commitment on the fiscal wedge, which was a signal that I consider to be positive) the opportunity has been missed to be able to really intervene on the real and main problem of our country, that is how to recover competitiveness, not wishing to consider the possibility of lightening that fiscal pressure on both employees, but also on that self-employment that today more than ever in this crisis suffers from the total absence of protections and security of any kind and that every day must overcome the challenge with a dramatic crisis without any kind of support (if not what we could have done by raising the no tax area, that is the level of non-taxation, to 12,000 gross euros per year, as we could have done if we had allocated the resources differently). It has just been said that there are so many micro-interventions in this law of stability; it always happens, but there are some that jump especially to the eyes. The whole system of the law of stability is then dispersed in so many expenses, some just, some shareable, but many others did not live, I believe, as a real priority. Not being able then to find the resources to increase the level of that turnover of the police and security forces, as the Chief of Police asked us yesterday, with an alarm cry about the country's ability to respond to the fight against crime and security, and instead to disperse - because this in my opinion is the appropriate term to evaluate this type of commitment and allocation of resources - 10 million euros to promote and develop the Slovenian language in the Italian public administration, I consider it the figure of a wrong choice. I wouldn't want that Wall Street Journal to be right then that instead of seeing us in the country of Bengodi, as Senator D'Alì told us, describes us as inhabitants of a cemetery, where we don't have the chance to have a future if we don't go back to investing in ourselves. [[Applause from Senator Gasparri).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u306	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u307	Mr President, I too want to talk about this law of stability by trying to understand what law it is and can be, and that is what comes to mind: it is a law of stability at a time of passage, when the country and therefore its institutions, such as the Senate, Parliament, are called to interpret the meaning of this passage. We come from the swamp, from a very hard crisis that has lasted for six years now, which has deeply wounded the social fabric, the civil fabric, the families, the economy, the communities of this country. We know why it happened. We're not going back on it. We also know that with the same strength we must know how to get out of this swamp. We need to get our feet back on solid ground, start walking again. It seems to me that this law of stability must be interpreted in this sense: it cannot ignore that it is still struggling with the swamp and with the tight constraints of a path of rehabilitation that must continue, but trying to walk. I have listened to the debate very carefully and I wonder, and in total good faith and constructive spirit I ask our friends, how do they think that the more the catastrophe is exalted and the greater the seriousness of the situation is emphasized, the easier it is to imagine easy recipes, easy answers which, moreover, are well guarded then from providing. I believe that in total good faith and by comparing us we must start to say how to get out of this swamp. By reading in this key the law of stability, we find, and we try to find together if we are careful to look at them, signs. Signs, of course, not definitive and exhaustive but encouraging, that speak to the realities of families, businesses, work, institutions, the social discomfort that is inside the swamp and indicate, certainly still in a limited way, how many choices we had to make on these difficult nights to say that you could not have everything and that you had to choose where to allocate the few resources available to help those who needed more, to help really help the country to resume walking. Seen in this key, I believe that the bill of stability (and this I believe is indisputable even in today's eyes a little angry about those who criticize it unilaterally) bears signs. There is certainly a strong trace of relaunching growth and development, on which I do not dwell because others have already talked about it. There is a strong commitment to investment, guarantee, innovation, housing and infrastructure. All signs of development. There is a first sign of a reduction in taxation for businesses and jobs. It's not much. Of course, it's little, but let's not despise him. Who needs to despise him? A policy that must rebuild its credibility does not need to despise itself for low internal demagogy. We value this path towards reducing taxation so that we can continue it in the coming years before us. We are also talking to the local authorities and the institutions that are - it is true - prisoners of a Stability Pact that represents constraints but that with this bill of stability we try to start to loosen up. Isn't that a billion? Of course, it is little, but it still represents 25% of the Stability Pact. Next year we will do better, if we will be able to, but we do not despise what is there because there is and gives the opportunity to start to say that even the Municipalities resume to invest, resume to look to their territory in order to counter, for example, that dislike that many mourning, many tragedies has provoked and to which we have tried to respond with the measures in favour of Sardinia. We talked to the families, too. I say it with a certain force. For example, it has not come to light very much, but having provided for a very strong deduction in the new property taxation because lower-income households, with higher family loads do not pay these taxes, is a way to give them concrete help to keep up and to be able to look with less concern at the future. Finally, this cannot be denied, we have also tried to turn a look with different eyes to a world that is usually neglected: what presents serious social hardships, not self-sufficiency, disability. But there have also been small signs of Law 104, of biological damage, of compensation for those who died at work, for families, with the ability to speak also to poverty by beginning to experience active support for inclusion. Those are signs. Of course they are still weak signs, they are traces, they are not yet strong paths, but from here we start - in my opinion - to try to build in the political dialectic, even harsh but without escape routes. You see, the bar in front of us is very high and no one is allowed to do as that horse that in front of the high obstacle chooses to discard, to leave somewhere else making, in fact, recourse to easy promises or other. We must tackle this issue, tackle it vigorously with the certainty that it will still be a long and difficult path, but with the knowledge that it has been undertaken and that we must better complete - we hope - also through the debate that will take place in the House of Deputies. Everyone will be asked in the near future to continue to travel through it. I have in mind the spending review started so that finally needs and standard costs are elements that guide a country that wants to change its spending to qualify it and to reduce waste and inefficiencies, to recover resources to be allocated more forcefully to the reduction of taxes, to the creation of employment, to offer perspectives to young people and hopes for the future. It's a tall bar. We have signs and a long way to go. We can go through it if we believe in ourselves and in the possibility of really changing this country. If we do this and manage to do without the internal polemics and quarrels and division that we have seen in abundant doses during the examination of this bill of stability we will be able to change the country and the level of a policy that wants to grow and change. [[Loud applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u308	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u309	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u310	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u311	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, since Senator Azzollini has extended the scope of the maxi amendment, I have to say that what we are doing has connotations of unconstitutionality. You, Mr President, have mentioned what the Offices have made available to you, namely the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate of 30 November 1988, which specifically states in footnote 3 that: The question of trust does not create a debate in its own right, but becomes the framework for the debate on the subject of vote on which it was placed. Previously it is stated that:... the question of trust is placed on the approval of an article or the single article of a bill of conversion of decree-law.................................................................................................... You mentioned these notes to point out that at this point nothing could be done by the Senate Presidency with regard to a document which was in the responsibility of the Government and that with the debate and vote required - as is used in the short parliamentary language - it overwhelms everything else. In this House, unlike the House of Deputies, no final vote is taken or agendas voted. I would like to stress to you, in order to give strength to my point and to my conviction, that what you have said is contrary, for example, to Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, if the maxi amendment contained proposals outside the scope of the debate and therefore contrary to the accounting law as, for example, legal or localistic, or if it contained wordings in improper terms, you would not declare it admissible. Therefore, there is no prejudice over the screening of eligibility. Having said that, Mr President, and since we are in any case called upon to vote, I imagined this speech as if President Letta were present, since Minister Franceschini had asked this morning for the organization of the work to be arranged so that President Letta could be present at the explanations of vote. I am therefore presumptuously prepared to do so, and I am able to do so. I would like to remind Mr Franceschini that a magic word was lodged in this House a few months ago. This word, which has lived there for some time, as Minister Franceschini well knows, is "pacification": I have spoken it several times, perhaps I have repeated it also boringly and I have presumptuously affirmed it. Why was there a presumption in what I was saying? In all probability it was the presumption that had made me proud of having contributed to the birth of this Government, which as its first name had that of "Government of broad understandings" and as a second name or, if you will, as subtitle had the word "pacification." The words "pacification', "reform' and "growth' were the paragraphs of the Government's instrument of incorporation. These words were a trace of President Letta's speech in this House when he asked for and convincedly obtained confidence from our Group and myself. Then, immediately afterwards, the peace process left its place, Mr President, to the guerrilla war, to the napalm, which fell on the senators who said they were opposed to that fashion, which in recent times, was to throw so much gasoline on the small fires. Those words were the trace in that intervention: and then, only war. But why this war? I am convinced, like many political noticists, that everything comes from the lack of presence in the Government of the two leaders of that moment: one indicated by the people with its vote, President Bersani, the other, President Berlusconi, an undisputed leader, indisputable and inescapable leader of the center-right. However, the summary of that intervention has betrayed its bibliography, the bibliography of the great coalitions, since it can be read that when these governments are born in Germany record the presence of the great leaders (in 1966 Kiesinger and Brandt), not of the deputy who, even if skilled, capable, intelligent and aware, had made us hope in much more than what followed. To the deputy, to President Letta, to Vice President Alfano I say: if you had more courage, the same kind of courage that you presented to the Chamber of Deputies the other day in the proper defense of Minister Chancellors, today the story would be different. Instead, in the absence of that courage, we plunged into the ignorance of a Government more engaged in meditation than in the courage of action. If there is no peace, Minister Saccomanni, there is no possibility of exercising the difficult task of the unpopular government. The unpopular government is the one at Reagan or Thatcher, the one that makes difficult decisions to better build the future. The unpopular government is what it calls the best intelligences in the country to write about a new form of state and government, but it does not do so to add those pages to the thousand and a thousand pages already written. Those are the governments that promote development and do it by discontenting everyone a little, but they do it to favor and protect them all. Peacemaking, present Ministers and President Letta who surely listens to us, is the consequence of a difficult, continuous, prudent and courageous action; it is not and cannot be the management of events. The governments that manage and do not act are weak; perhaps therefore they may also be destined to last for a long time, but they are governments that do not inspire my trust, they are governments that do not inspire our trust. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u312	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u314	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the question of the government's confidence in the stability bill is, as the President-in-Office of the Council said, a political act for the verification of the majority. At the same time, it is a mandatory decision to ensure the time taken to approve the measure. We believe that our opinion on the Stability Act should be based not only on the assessment of the text under consideration, but also on a balanced and not a preliminary assessment of the government's action. Well, the President-in-Office of the Council and his Government have worked effectively, although political and parliamentary conditions are objectively difficult. There are few economic resources available. There are many European constraints and few growth prospects. The government was therefore obliged to carry out a delicate assessment of the compatibility of budgetary priorities to be safeguarded, but also of the necessary political support. Unfortunately, political conditioning was often inspired in the past by the achievement of propaganda and electoral aims and not by the common interest. This political part seems to have forgotten that in the last parliamentary elections no one has won, so it is out of place to stick to certain electoral flags, because we all know that Italy is not in the position today to make gifts, much less to everyone, rich or poor, as we have now decided to do on the first house. In this way we have only wasted valuable resources by charging the cost of the operation on businesses or other goods and services in a sort of inauspicious tour match where citizens still have to pay but in another way. This is a mockery and this is the best way to get civil society away from politics. Instead, the Letta Government has done well, starting the path of reducing the tax wedge with the objective of significantly reducing taxes on labour in the medium term, which is a strategic goal to become competitive in Europe and in the world. We also appreciate the stabilisation of measures for the energy recovery of buildings that will stimulate the construction sector today in severe crisis. In relation to the Special Statutes, the draft stability law under consideration presents many aspects that have highly risky constitutionality profiles, and that we, as the Group for Autonomies, have pointed out and strongly criticized. But during the examination by the Senate it was not possible to eliminate all the criticalities. Instead, for the first time in recent years and after a long period of stalemate, we managed to define a path with the Government in order to eliminate the frightening litigation before the Constitutional Court that has often seen the government succumb to the inoculate and often short-sighted political of the previous Governments, that have abandoned the path of the understanding and the agreement taking that of the unilateral imposition, of the diktat, seriously violating the prerogatives of the Special Regions. These government actions have almost all been sanctioned by the Supreme Court, so that this law of stability is also not based on very solid constitutional foundations. With President Letta and Minister Delrio we decided to change the register. The proposals we have indicated to the Government, as Special Autonomouss of Trentino-Alto Adige-Südtirol and Valle d'Aosta-Vallée d'Aoste, are consistent with the primary objective, shared by the President of the Council with the signing of the Bolzano Memorandum, to give full and real recognition and extension to self-government and, at the same time, to ensure our contribution to the consolidation of the state budget. A relationship of trust with the Government is indispensable for this path and also for the commitment to significantly reduce the dispute before the Constitutional Court today. Thanks to the constant commitment of Minister Delrio we are faced with important results achieved in recent months, with a very important reduction of the appeals presented by both the Government and the Regions. A further priority is therefore the resolution of this dispute also on the historical reserves and provisions in a short time, in the context of the implementation of the programmatic norm for the delegation of new state functions provided for in this law. Changes to the status of autonomy in respect of local finance and taxes, transfer or delegation of state functions and related financial burdens, understanding and definition of interventions capable of contributing to the extent corresponding to the achievement of public finance objectives: these are the issues we consider to be fundamental. In the past, the two provinces of Trento and Bolzano exercised competing powers in the field of local finance and local taxes, which led to continuous conflicts and was an endless source of mutual redress, also following repeated changes in the state's legislation on taxes on houses, waste and services. From 1 January 2014 we will have the primary competence in this matter. This means that we will be able to regulate this matter in full autonomy and also by way of derogation from state rules, ensuring not only efficient services and respect for the environment, but also stability, fairness and legal certainty for our citizens, which unfortunately have often been ignored at national level. In the law of stability, it was also possible to lay the legal basis for strengthening the agreements already in place with the Ministry of Justice for Peace Judges with the aim of extending this consolidated mechanism to the entire field of ordinary justice. It is now up to the Region of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol to begin the agreements with the Ministry of Justice for a more equipped and fast justice. These are also factors that determine the competitiveness of a territory. A further positive novelty is the repeal of the inefficient management of the Fund for the Development of Border Municipalities to the special territories (known as the ODI Fund). On this point has been improved the agreement of Milan, with which this fund has been established, previewing that the 40 million euros annually allocated by each Province will finally be unlocked and from 1 January 2014 administered by the autonomous provinces, in agreement with Rome and with the Veneto and Lombardy Regions. The Valle d'Aosta and the Autonomous Provinces have already shown that they are able to assume their responsibilities and translate them into new competences, taking into perspective the burdens for all the state services in our Provinces. These are the basis for continuing in the direction of full and conscious autonomy. Instead of having to accept unilateral cuts from the state always looking for new and fresh resources, we are willing to take on the costs of state services and new competences, with the advantage, however, of being able to administer them in part at least independently. For these reasons it becomes essential that in January 2014 joint commissions are immediately established to issue the new implementing rules, with the delegation of the management of the Stelvio National Park, the functions for the Agencies of revenue, state property and customs, as well as for the management of administrative staff of justice. The Led Government and the majority have kept what they promised taking into account our demands by improving the text of the bill of stability. Now, after so many years of stalemate, we finally have a real prospect of implementing our common objectives, that is to increase autonomy for the good of all the linguistic groups present in our territories. Our agreements with the Government will now be gradually, but concretely, realized, and this does justice to the controversy and positions that on our territory attack instrumentally those who point to the development and the strengthening of autonomy, promising the South Tyrolean the detachment from Italy and the realization of a free State, but that would, at least in the immediate, imply new borders in the heart of Europe. We do not agree with that. There is no doubt that these results can be achieved in a condition of constant collaboration and comparison between special autonomy and government. A comparison that, together with the President of the Council and Minister Franceschini, Minister Delrio has led with constant attention to the reasons for the specialty and with a political sensitivity that we have always appreciated and for which we are grateful. For this reason, the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote compactly for trust in the Government. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u315	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u316	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u317	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have started this debate with the report by President Azzollini, who has long thanked, certainly with due attention, the officials of the Senate who have assisted the Commission during these weeks, whom I would like to call useless work. Then he also thanked the Commission, the majority and the Government, but I think there is nothing to thank, because at this point in the examination of the financial maneuver we record the failure of the work of the Budget Commission, which has not concluded the examination of the measure and we record the production of a maxi amendment, which is totally illegible, incomprehensible, inapplicable and certainly very confused and messy. We have come to this stage of the debate, in which an important part of the majority, who supported and promoted the Government in office, makes an opposition even obstructive, almost unbecoming, for the whole evening of yesterday in the Commission and for the whole of today in this House, forgetting to be the creator of the unworthy results, also for Parliament as well as for the Government, in the matter of the organization of public expenditure and economic development project that the measure under consideration should have represented. They call it the law of stability, but this regulatory production is far from stability. It is unstable in all its parts, not only because it is confused in its main part, that is, that of the financial hedges, which are all random and very difficult to secure (we will verify it with the going of time): it is confused because of the way in which it was built. It is a set of about 520 or 530 paragraphs of a single article of law, which is filled with localistic operations, corporate operations, which does not have a soul and does not and does not represent a project. We would have expected more, and I say this with regret and also with sadness, because other has been written by all the newspapers of the country in these weeks. It has been said that this would be the first stone of the economic recovery, that we would emerge from a very long period of recession and that we could build growth on the basis of this measure. Minister Saccomanni, I ask you if you are convinced that with these 520 paragraphs we have laid the foundations for the growth of the country, to overcome its inefficiencies, to better organize the public car, to respond to the needs of the people, to give breath to our businesses. I believe that there is none of this here and, even if there is something, it is so confused in that corporateism, lobbying and localism, even the most miserable one, that we have seen systematically emerge in the work of the Commission (and I repeat: systematically emerge in the work of the Commission). This is the limit of the measure under consideration: the fact that it did not have a handle in all its conduct. This phase was commandless. If there had been one, contrary to all my opinions, I would have been happy, I could have recognized it and opposed it on the substance, tried to undermine its foundations, found different solutions. It was also impossible to compare. The only thing we have tried to do, and we have also managed very little, Mr President - and I also say this to the Government - was to respond to a need that we did not even expect to have to face. I am referring to the disaster in Sardinia, which is not born out of nothing: it is a disaster that has foundation in the laws of our country, beginning with the regional ones. While the government was sleeping, because it was sleeping, laws were passed that allowed legitimacy, the sanatorium of basements where people died, and where it died even before the approval of those norms, well aware, those who approved them, that would be a damage. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] And why is that? To give a handful of profits to those who had built basements with the idea of being able to sell them. This is in a relationship with the public system, with the Parliaments, which are absolutely deteriorating, and can be seen from the continuous question, from stakeouts outside the door of the Commission, outside the door of Parliament. This is, while we were doing a battle to put a few euros more into the plan of contrast to the hydrogeological failure of the country; there is talk of 600 million damage, at a first estimate, in Sardinia; 30 million are the budget items that we have introduced for the entire country on the hydrogeological failure. Repeat, 30 million. While we did this, tax evasion was allowed here: in order to give a positive response to the lobbying of hunters and weapons, tax evasion for government concessions was also allowed. In this country several thousand people have weapons, but they do not pay their concession, because they claim not to use them, while on the contrary they use them systematically. We have asked the rapporteur and the government to introduce a provision that makes the concession pay every year. This country must get out of the nefariousness of everyday cheating. They voted, they saved that rule and they were all satisfied because they did not recover, among all those who possess the weapons, that 42 million euros, sum that is 12 million euros more than the government put in favor of the hydrogeological failure. They all looked satisfied, because they still responded positively to a corporation. This is a country that goes to decadence, to ruin. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Cirinna]] That is why we will not vote in favour of this measure, and not so much as it contains, but much as it does not exist: there is no contrast to unemployment, there is no contrast to poverty, there is no growth, there is no revival of business activity, there is no economy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u318	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u320	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult - it is really very difficult - for me and my Group to find the words to comment on what, on paper, is the most strategic and important measure of the entire financial year of the Government. It is not that we do not lack the arguments and even the reasons for accusing this measure of inconclusiveness, full of favors for the usual known and poor of concrete measures for growth; rather, the words fail in the face of the incredible way in which the work of this measure has been carried out, starting precisely from the Budget Commission. Work began a few weeks ago (four weeks ago), and the concern of the increasingly authoritarian European Union followed the recommendations of the Minister for Economic Affairs, first, and then the Prime Minister himself. Since that day, countless meetings of the 5th Commission have been held. The Members who were there were able to see that the Commission's work almost never started on time; almost all the sessions were postponed to resume a few hours later, but without producing anything. Why? Because the majority did not find any agreement in the secret rooms, and while the days were inexorably passing, the impertinent government proposed its amendments with amendments tabled at the last minute, in a hasty and imprecise manner. The last amendment - one of the most important and fundamental, because it concerned all citizens - was delivered at 6 p.m. yesterday evening, and after a few hours we should have closed the examination of the measure. The logical consequence of this political backdrop was this law of stability, which unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, will not bring any benefit to the Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Yet, at the time of the presentation the sound of the trumpets of those who had presented the provision had resounded loudly among the Roman palaces. However, the puffy breasts of the government representatives have not considered the complaints of those who, from the productive world to the trade union world, to the enterprises, to the families and to the municipalities, complained dissatisfaction; dissatisfaction with a document that did not change the priorities of this country by a millimetre. I think it is emblematic to stress, in this regard, how never before, on this occasion, the same industrial groups, families, consumer associations have expressed a clear and clear convergence on what are the most important issues to be addressed: reducing public expenditure, using more resources to lower the tax wedge and revising the Stability Pact for the Municipalities. This is precisely the aim of our amendments: amendments which we have proposed and which concern everyone, not individual categories or other, not individual localisms. Yet they have said no to our amendments. For a long time in our country we have felt the need and urgency to intervene on the tax wedge in order to increase the competitiveness of an industrial system of the country (from small artisan enterprises to large districts) in order to trigger the virtuous circle of the purchasing power of the workers and increase the real income in the pockets of the citizens. And what happens instead? The reduction has been ridiculous and every day thousands of workers lose their jobs. Every day hundreds of our young graduates, a moment after completing their studies, take the first plane to escape abroad, thus dissipating an invaluable future resource for our country. Every month thousands of entrepreneurs close their companies, because they fail to collect the credits they have from their debtors, among which, very often, we also find the public administration. Every year, however, companies that do not close pay thousands of euros in taxes, such as IMU and IRAP. Resources that could remain in the pockets of the workers and that instead entrepreneurs are forced to pour into the account of a member, never seen and that does not participate in the activity of the company: the State. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] A record tax pressure that will stop in the bud the good intentions of those in Italy who would like to invest in their business, increase productivity or create new jobs. In the measure, however, we find the exact opposite: ad hoc measures for socially useful workers only for some cities in the South, resources for the protection of the Slovenian language (essential thing), tax exemption and contribution for private health institutions in Puglia and Sicily, contributions for some museums, almost personalized by the individual proposer of the amendment, which in jargon are called marchettes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We find new funding for the infinite Salerno-Reggio Calabria, which the Calabrians themselves criticize because we all know what goes forage. By the way, with all the funding you've received, you might be able to get to Cape Town by now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Very important and undoubtedly decisive interventions for the revival of our country, and of which, really, the financial could never have done without. Unfortunately, the document we are debating here lacks other and more important elements. On all, what should be the polar star of tomorrow's Italy: an idea of the future. The programme is missing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Before anything else, there is an idea, a project about what you want to do, where you want to go. It lacks the courage to assume the responsibility to intervene decisively and forcefully in the critical points of the country. And when courage is lacking, the outcome cannot be what we have before us today: a law of stability with so many small buffer interventions, a document clinging to good and better (we have seen it also today) that gives no answer, no certainty to those who, like the precarious young or the unemployed of middle age, have not had a certainty for a long time. We hope, gentlemen, that the time still available to this soulless Executive will run out quickly. We shall, as far as possible, make our contribution to this from today, by voting against, decisively, a law of useless stability such as the one presented today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u321	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u323	MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, seriousness and responsibility have been, and will be, the guiding threads of our policy but also of economic policy. Already on the decree of the doing and then on the updating of the Document of economy and finance, we said that it was necessary to prepare a maneuver in which there were robust measures for the recovery. The signs of the reversal of the trend that we wanted to achieve already sufficiently in the glimpse of this year are rather tenuous, and therefore for more reason 2014 becomes the year in which the barometer hand must move and turn towards an area of greater stability and growth. This law, as we have already said on other occasions, is one of the few arrows to trigger and support the revival, to give back breath and perspectives to Italian society. Exactly, seriousness and responsibility, as we said, because we needed to start a policy of growth without deflecting from the consolidation of public finances. The torments, seizures and delays of these long days in the budget committee are in fact linked to the need to keep budgetary balances firm and to respect the cover, because constraints and constraints cannot be bypassed. Therefore, some passages of the European Commission's opinion of 15 November seem ingenious and preventable, technocratic and out of touch with reality, which do not take into account, instead, our reality and our country. These opinions cast their hands on the negative aspects, while Italy's efforts on the primary side of the surplus are immense, net of interest, which is one of the best among the industrialized countries. For our country an important fact has been that we have not asked for help from international authorities, and important is the fact that our country is an active contributor to the saved-state fund: just us, who do not miss the problems, but we help other States to recover from their crises. It is therefore necessary to remedy the technocracy in Brussels, which becomes the armed arm of anti-European populism and the radicalisation of the confrontation between rigour and growth. With seriousness and responsibility we have therefore made proposals for more revenue; with seriousness and responsibility we have not put in place any further obstacles to the attempt to recover without tearing up the electoral demagogy on the first house; with seriousness and responsibility we have said that we would measure the maneuver on the commitments that the Government went to assume on public expenditure, on the tax, on the enterprises, on the reforms, on the liberalizations. The government has presented Parliament with a law of moderately expansive stability - as the Minister of Economy has said - and with this law of stability begins, in fact, a moderate reduction in the tax wedge. This stability law resumes a moderate investment expenditure; there is a moderate cut in spending that has taken place since 2015; there is moderate support for businesses and moderate marginalisation aid. Mr President, we are not insensitive to the moderate term, but even the modest amount is fine, if applied to a healthy organism. When the disease is serious, more decisive medicines are needed. For this reason we would have preferred a financial one with a less dispersion of the interventions; a maneuver concentrated more on the strengthening of the fundamental themes; a maneuver less tied to that tradition that evokes in many the image of the diligence that is assaulted by Indians or cowboys, and that instead reminds me of that torpedo on the Andes on which the campesinos try to climb, carrying behind everything they can, from domestic animals to agricultural products, to the food. This is the picturesque picture that I attach to the more than 3,000 amendments which, together with our regulations and our parliamentary practices on the work of the Commission and the House, mark the urgent need for reform at the roots of our system. Seriousness and responsibility have led our Group to table a few amendments focused on the key points, therefore on production, work, the digital platform, energy sources, the family, the strictest discipline towards the participating companies. So, Mr President, this evening in this House, the majority of broad understandings will probably become less wide-ranging in numbers. We hope that political understanding will become stronger and wider, that the majority will become more cohesive, more productive, more efficient, more determined. But for this new majority to be more cohesive and productive, what happened on this law of stability must be the last regurgitation of an old but rooted way of making politics, where good politics means not seeing so many amendments that respond only to corporate logics, where good politics means choosing the best laws, making the best choices, making the strategic choices compared to the legislative package that we have seen above all in the majority parties, where often the functions are confused between an Executive that wants to become legislative and a legislative that pretends to become Executive, in a law of stability that ranges over everything, from the tax wedge to the purchase of small islands. Italy needs stability, the economy needs it, businesses, citizens and the institutions themselves need it. The new majority can give this stability, but stability is not an absolute good. We are not here to defend the fort at all costs, to criticize at all costs the officers or petty officers who defend this fort; we are here with responsibility, with seriousness to help do the right things, more necessary and more appropriate for our country. We are convinced that we support the new understanding not in our interest but in the interest of the country, and the interest of the country is to have a majority that dialogues with itself, that knows the things that must be done, that puts the general interest before the particular interests. Then the new majority must be found, it must find the new reasons for this understanding, it must find in a stronger cohesion the reasons for its unity, the reasons that must be the basis for the growth of our country. Mr President, this new majority, this new understanding, must gather the heads of state's exhortation to have courage. For this reason, too, the Civic Choice Group will vote for trust in the Government; it will courageously vote for trust with open eyes. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u324	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u325	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u326	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, Members of the European Parliament and Members of the European Parliament, the Group of Senators of the New Right Centre will vote with conviction on confidence in the Letta-Alfano Government. We will do so despite the anomalous coalition that supports it understands what we believe is more from us in the Italian political system. We will do so despite the fact that the Democratic Party wants to produce a serious act for national cohesion and institutional solidity as the exclusion from this Assembly of Senator Berlusconi. We will do so despite the fact that the law of stability is certainly not what we would have written in the context of a homogeneous coalition of moderates. Yet we will do so: we will do so not only with the serenity of those who have responsibly contributed to the difficult possible decisions in the Council of Ministers before and in the Budget Commission then, but also with the security of those who are aware of the difficult transition that the Italian economy and society are experiencing, with the conviction that a government crisis would represent an even more dangerous system crisis, with the well-founded fear that an institutional trauma would produce, mixed with widespread social deprivation, an explosive mixture with absolutely uncertain outcomes. Even our reading of the unfortunate hypothesis of Silvio Berlusconi's decadence is, if possible, even more concerned than that of the party of which he is president. While it is true that it represents a damage to national cohesion and confirmation of the fragility of institutions spoiled by the judicial anomaly and subalternity to it of a part of the political system, the crisis in the dark and the probable electoral outcome only one year after the previous vote would constitute an irreversible process of true and complete disintegration. There are many external environments that seem interested in this kind of big bang of an Italy that is the only country in Europe so important and at the same time so fragile. In this regard, we join those who have never wanted a strong euro and those who, more concretely, aspire to the purchase of some of our important industrial and financial assets on the market. Mr President, we have a duty to do everything in our power, in spite of the profound differences that we are opposed to on many issues, starting with the figure and the story of Silvio Berlusconi, in order to guarantee Italy a rapid institutional transition towards a ruling democracy, to accompany our economy to the opportunities of a still difficult recovery, to support human fragility in the crisis with solutions that reproduce as much as possible the self-sufficiency of people. This law of stability has its dignified ambition that in general skepticism has been perhaps still little perceived. That of a three-year course, which cannot be fully accounted for at the outset, which should see the close connection between the progressive re-evaluation of public administration expenditure and the equally progressive reduction of the tax levy on labour. We hope that you will be able to agree with the social partners on a rule which makes this connection explicit and binding by Parliament at second reading. For now, the first examination by the Senate, thanks to the intense work, as far as we are concerned, carried out in particular by my colleagues Azzollini, Chiavaroli and D'Alì, has guaranteed significant improvements among which I want to emphasize the definitive cancellation of every capital tax on the first house - limiting the contribution to the services received only - and a containment of the tax capacity of the municipalities, so that they do not discharge on families and businesses the inefficiencies of their administrators. The second aspect that I stress is that of a lower tax levy on lower incomes and productivity wages in order to support the growth of consumption, competitiveness and the same wages where possible. Finally, I would like to point out that the basic text, which has been increased by the additional appropriations now available, has levels of funding for public works which have not existed for some time. Many issues are referred to the House of Deputies for further consideration. I am sorry to note today that our reasons for dissent at the time of the transformation of the People of Freedom were founded and that therefore a part of the centre-right, when isolated, appears resigned to a forthcoming minority electoral perspective with all the unknowns for our nation that I have previously recalled. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]] However, we do not respect either the decline of the nation or that of the Italian centre-right. For this we turn to our opponent of tomorrow, as said Angelino Alfano in recent days, the proposal of a pact of coalition in term on few priorities useful to put on solid tracks our common destiny. And for this reason we address to all the moderates, starting from the founder of the center-right, the proposal to resettle the thread of a potentially majority coalition because it is firmly anchored to the non-negotiable principles of national tradition, because it is linked to the objectives of European popularism, because it is capable of organizing a large part of Italy that produces and works around a development perspective that we like to define as human because it is integral, that is, of each person, of all people. Good work, Mr President-in-Office, in the interests of everyone. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u327	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u328	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u329	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, just now the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Letta, was unable to listen to Senator Santini's heartfelt speech, which wished us a rosy future, finally of recovery and growth. Finally a little optimism! Well, for the future, however, in this bill of stability it is reported in this way: By decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, to be adopted by January 15, 2015, on a proposal from the Minister of Economy and Finance, after the opinion of the Parliamentary Commissions, changes in the tax rate and reductions in the measure of the existing facilities and deductions are arranged to ensure higher revenues of 3 billion for 2015, 7 billion for the year 2016 and 10 billion euros from 2017 onwards. When we read this paragraph we were slightly terrified because we immediately realized that it was an imposition of Europe and for this reason we had to trigger a certain automatism, the same one that now, President Letta, is making us risk those beautiful funding, those investments that we had finally conquered. I remember that as soon as he was installed he went to Europe and returned here to this victorious Chamber saying that we could spend so many billions, they had freed themselves of the investment costs that Italy could finally enjoy and from there hook up the recovery. Now Europe has already closed its taps on those same investments. Yes, because the cuts, these 32 billion Cottarelli, in fact those do not want them in financial Europe because it believes that we do not have a credible government, there is no authoritative Parliament. After all, yesterday the opposition to defend and protect one's only man made us talk amiably about whether or not to return to 'election day because actually Italy is what is waiting for. The question is: will we still vote on Monday or will we not vote on Monday? Because the League is what it did [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The tax watchmen have not spoken at all about this beautiful safeguard clause. They were all careful to protect their man. They didn't even give us the opportunity last night at 3:00 in the morning to ask for at least the deductibility of the IRAP because we call it IMU, IUC, TUC (it seems like cartoons from when I was a child), but what is certain is that now the services must be completely covered. We are entrusting everything to the Municipalities, those who are in the trenches, those to whom the people who have no home, who have no food, who have no kindergartens. We're giving it all to the municipalities. Going further we found it even more amazing to find a certain standard. That is why we are immediately joining Europe. But when Europe calls us back, when it warns us that we pollute too much, that we help too many large companies, no, that does nothing: we take the fines and pay them with the money of the Italians. Here we help the banks, and it's not me who says it, but themselves. Just to cite some examples, I remember that according to the Bank of Italy in seven years they will have 20 billion facilities. All right, okay, then you're gonna get back on track, but over the next seven years, they're gonna have $20 billion. Since there has not been a parliamentary dialogue, due - I repeat - also to the new opposition, which is actually a obstructionism rather than an opposition because it rejects any form of dialogue (clearly for its own sake), as far as we are concerned we are looking forward to it coming tomorrow and also passing. In addition, President Letta, we will not give confidence because this parliamentary dialogue is also prevented by the Government of the salvation of those who can. We would also like to be able to speak, to say something, to make our proposals, but we find ourselves the Undersecretaries who arrive to bring the amendment and immediately afterward ask us to subemend in half an hour because there is no time, although we have waited in the Commission for about two hours since the call. Well, I invite you to urge your government, the presidents, to recover that decency of the institutions because it is probably an offense, not to occupy the perimeter of a roof, but to keep the parliamentarians until 3 at night to talk about nothing and not to listen to anything, not to grasp the needs of a country on its knees. Here they give money to the Verdi Theatre, to the Certosa di Pavia, even if then they talk about Puglia, Calabria, but they also talk about the theater and the party for Pope John XXIII who needs this million euro, for the archives that have returned out to which they also serve 2 million euros, for the so-called tip law, but it is only 5 million euros! Maybe there's something else you could do. I now ask you, Mr Letta, since we have the pleasure of having you here, to let Commissioner Cottarelli say that the safeguard clause is not good for us; we want to know if the Commissioner will do his job, since he has already taken a very small step backwards. In fact, there was the rule that cut the ambassadors' compensation a little; I repeat that the rule already existed, it was already done, but now it derogates. We asked if the spending review will start sooner or later. I have been told that it will be launched next year. Well, let's also talk about education, just to say something. Support teachers are missing, teachers are missing, but we are able to give EUR 220 million to equal schools and to loosen the Stability Pact when we go to private schools and not to the public. These are the reasons for our distrust this evening. However, I will stop here, partly because I do not want to take any more time: I would not want to try to procrastinate again and postpone tomorrow's day. [[Live applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u330	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u331	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u332	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: 110, 62, 1, 519. These are the numbers that the government gave today at 5.45 p.m.: 110 pages of text, 62 technical report, 1 only article that includes all the law of stability, 519 paragraphs. President, did you see how we're reduced? We can give the numbers of the law of stability, of the pages I mean, but we hardly have time to understand its contents. We, Mr President, should have understood within two hours the meaning, the proposals, the modifications, the wordings and the rewordings, after for two weeks we have unnecessarily asked for a comparison on the main issues - home, tax wedge among all - that I imagine have been developed in the maxi amendment that the Government has tabled. But so much so, here and at this time we are obliged for the Rules of Procedure to make an explanation of vote on the bill of stability. Improbable business. I merely pretend that the content of the maxi amendment includes the work done and not completed in the Commission and the amendments tabled yesterday in the Commission itself. I pretended, but I don't believe it. "President Letta pulls a line, zeros everything, takes note that the (his) law of stability is not able to grasp the priorities of the country and to provide the appropriate answers. It still has very little time to remedy, but it can still do so if it wants to give an accomplished sense to stability in line with the feeling and vital needs of the country. These are not my words, Mr President, but of the Director of the 24 Hours Sun, Dr Napoletano. I wanted to quote them without comment. As Forza Italia we have studied the text of the stability bill, or rather the various texts and amendments tabled; we have tried to analyse its effects on citizens and businesses; we have presented our proposals, as is the case with a majority party, in a totally collaborative spirit. Our representatives in the budget committee, whom I thank, worked, proposed improvements, did not do any kind of obstruction. But right from the start we realized the nature of this law: a law of maintenance, not a law of development. The country demands development; the country needs development. We have focused on some fundamental issues for us, for the country and for Italian citizens. For the house we have placed an insurmountable roof on the total mountain of the taxation, but not forgetting to modify also the taxation on the entire building section, always center of the economic development of our Country. That on the tax wedge is correct intervention in principle but ineffective in substance. We have therefore taken action to expand the audience and the resources available by proposing appropriate cover. We have proposed an increase in the no-tax area so that those who are not rich are not called rich. We have put forward a series of measures aimed at companies and the impetus for investment, with particular attention to access to credit, for example by setting up an extraordinary fund to support the capitalisation of trusts. We have put our attention on the issue of state property concessions with a dual aim: firstly, to stabilise state-owned, often family-run enterprises, and secondly, to enhance concessions. We did not get any answers on these points. I am thinking again of the central issue, the taxation on the house that, with the new taxes that have already changed several times during the discussion (from TRISE to TUC up to IUC), instead of decreasing the total amount of taxation, obviously with the exclusion of the main house, as from the government's programmatic commitments, and to simplify the whole system, ended up complicated and increased the tax burden at the intersection between IMU second house and new taxation. With the single municipal tax the margins of the municipalities are further expanded and in 2014 the revenue deriving from the taxation of houses, land, sheds and commercial premises risks to exceed 30 billion euros to go even beyond this amount in the following years, from 2015 onwards. In summary, compared to the ICI of the Berlusconi Government of 2011 (9 billion), from 2014 the total revenue on the real estate will be more than tripled: over 30 billion. A de facto asset. The majority commitments - everyone knows - were on a total revenue of 20-21 billion, i.e. the total made with the IMU of Monti minus the first house. The government has disregarded the majority commitments and cheated the Italians. This law, too fragmented, little more than an index with very little substance, is not able to get the country out of the recession by intervening on the central problem of domestic demand. We expected more; from a government of broad understanding we expected more. The government led by Enrico Letta has had in us convinced and responsible supporters; we have believed that, Mr President. The broad understandings were born on the assumption of a strong attempt at national peace. In the absence of a program signed point by point like the one that was the basis of the German Grosse Koalition of 2005, due to the delay accumulated by Bersani's volious attempts, we agreed on a method. And so we had an instrument to orchestrate an effective work of proposal and noble compromise. This instrument is described to President Letta, who dedicated to this topic a precise definition in his long speech for the confidence of 29 April last. He spoke of permanent co-decision places, in which I will participate personally, between the Government and the political forces that have decided to support him. Today, at the most important test of an Executive, the law of stability, we discover a confused Government, unable to implement the measures, unable to trace the bow back to the country; a Government that writes and rewrites, trying to correct in vain its first law of stability. A government that proposes an unacceptable law. How should we read the government's attitude throughout the discussion on the law of stability? How should we read the attitude of the rapporteurs and the President of the Commission? The contextuality of a fundamental passage of any Government, the law of stability, and a striking and shameful fact for a democratic Republic, the vote on the decadence of Senator Silvio Berlusconi, leads us to think of a connection between the two events. So I wonder if the continuous postponements and subsequent cancellations of any confrontation of the Government with our Group, part of the majority, the timing of the presentation of amendments by the Government, the acceleration in the Commission, to the point of ignoring any proposed amendment, are perhaps not linked to the unbridled will to respect anyway the date of 27 November for the most disconcerting vote that has ever been made in an Italian Parliamentary Assembly! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG Groups.]] Tomorrow in the Chamber will be staged the most grotesque episode of the life of the Italian Republic. But we stay here tonight to do our job of responsibility and service for the country. We do not recognize ourselves in the law of stability proposed by the Government. We do not recognize ourselves in the subsequent changes. We do not recognize ourselves in this incredible maxi amendment that has been proposed to us in these hours. We are announcing tonight that we are voting against the law of stability. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] and we do not give our vote of confidence to the Letta Government because we believe that this vote of ours must give the Italian citizens an important signal, a warning signal. This law of stability does not deserve our trust. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u333	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u334	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u335	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party Group will vote with conviction in favour of the law of stability and trust in the Government. The text of the maxi amendment tabled by the Government collects much of the work done in recent weeks by the Senate Budget Committee. I would like to thank the majority and opposition senators who have worked in the Commission over the past few weeks, first and foremost President Azzollini and the two rapporteurs, Santini and D'Alì. The quality work carried out has been very useful, because it has led to substantial improvements that were subsequently incorporated in the Government text. As has been the case many other times in the past, the law of stability, precisely because it is complex and because it deals with heterogeneous topics, has been subjected to many criticisms in recent weeks, complaining of shortcomings and shortcomings of various kinds, which have also been taken up by many in today's debate. Of course, some of these points are well founded and it can be agreed that improvements and changes can still be made from the House. But at the same time it should be pointed out that every judgment should be formulated and evaluated taking into account the peculiar phase that is crossed by our country, and above all having full awareness of the problems and constraints of resources available to our economy. Let us remember that the general economic context is characterized, as we know very well, by a very serious economic and social crisis which has been in existence for some time and which in recent years has seen its conditions even worse, especially on the unemployment front. Only in recent months has the fall of productive activity stopped and an air of cautious optimism began to breathe. For now they are only first signs, still weak, but that we want and yet we must try in every way to cultivate and strengthen. This is why we need targeted, determined interventions, precisely because we want to avoid and we want to get out of the conditions of stagnation in which we have been bogged down for a long time. Well, it is against the backdrop of this delicate transitional phase that the bill of stability that we are debating today must be included. It is a maneuver aimed - we know - on the one hand to keep the accounts in order, but on the other to prepare the conditions to engage the recovery transforming it above all into a real growth. I have heard a number of comments from the oppositions on the yet another tax stalemate that would be contained in this maneuver. But beyond these slogans the numbers tell us anything else. After four years of "blood and tear" maneuvers - I remember 100 billion euros of fiscal restrictions from 2010 to 2012 - the law of stability, this law of stability marks a first significant reversal of the trend in the conduct of fiscal policy. The fact that next year the expansionary measures will go beyond the restrictive ones is to be welcomed, I believe, very favorably. Let us also remember that next year there will always be a slight worsening of the public deficit precisely because this deterioration wants to benefit the real economy. I cannot, of course, dwell on the many measures contained in the formulation of the Stability Act, which have been very well illustrated in the course of other interventions today, from the relaxation of the Internal Stability Pact to the financing of investment in infrastructure, the benefits for the capitalization of enterprises, to the funding of the Social Policy Fund. Well, compared to this initial plant - I would like to remind you - the work carried out here in the Senate has allowed to include some important modifications and additions that we consider to improve many parts of the maneuver and that have now been transposed into the text of the maxiemendameento presented by the Government. I remember that in order to hope to transform recovery into a real phase of growth we must somehow support and revitalize aggregate demand, in particular domestic demand, which is made - as we know - of consumption and investment of companies, but at the same time we must remove those structural rigidities on the front of the productive supply that have lowered the potential growth rate of our economy in recent years to almost zero. I want to highlight here three important measures which have been reinforced in the version of the maneuver that we are now about to approve. The first concerns credit to businesses and families. We know that there is an absolute need to increase it if we want the economy to start again in the coming months. Compared to what was originally planned, the intervention here in the Senate has allowed to increase the refinancing of the Guarantee Fund and above all to widen the public guarantee platform for access to the credit of companies, with the involvement of the Cassa depositi e loani and, above all, of the trusts. With the use of modest resources it will thus be possible to obtain a very substantial multiplier effect: we can speak of tens of billions of euros of additional credit, of new loans in the three years 2014-2016. The second measure is certainly the reduction of the tax wedge, which has been mentioned several times and it is true that it is a fundamental node for the growth of our country. It is said that few resources have been allocated: as we know, this is more than EUR 5 billion. Right, but it should also be remembered that for many years the tax wedge had disappeared among the priorities of the governments' agenda. Compared to the original wording we have somehow concentrated the audience of the beneficiaries of tax deductions and thus increased the net benefits, especially for low and medium-low labour incomes. Of course, now it is important that there is a commitment of the Government to centralize the reduction of the tax burden on work and businesses, starting next year, with a path that must be graduated over time, but on which we must concentrate the resources that will be released, also thanks to the spending review. This will mean a significant redistribution of the tax burden in favour of income from work and businesses. Finally, let me also remind you of the single municipal tax. In this case it should not be forgotten that the Government has built a completely federal plant, referring to the autonomy of the municipalities the choices that will concern the construction, over time, of the service tax. It is a restructuring of local property taxation, in the three components: the asset tax, the service tax and the waste tax in some way. Well, it is absolutely not true that we are facing yet another tax stalemate. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] We actually have the certainty that you will be able to pay online or less of what you paid in 2012, but above all important deductions have been introduced in favour of the first-home families with children. Of course we can and must do more on the subject of social policy, where we know that there are important areas of intervention on which to invest resources, for objectives of equity, which we believe are now as important as those of efficiency, for the revival of the economy. In this area, however, let me remind you that there has been the introduction of a first trial of a support income, which will complement the income of families below the poverty line and which have been allocated, over the three years, EUR 120 million. In light of what has been said, it is difficult to understand why Forza Italia decided, on the basis of this maneuver, its exit from the majority. The history of increasing taxes actually has no foundation, if we look at numbers. At the same time, we know that a move towards reducing expenditure and taxes does not give any certainty - as far as the short and medium term are concerned - that it can be transformed into a stimulus to the economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u336	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u337	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Mr President, I would like to be authorized to hand over the full text of my speech so that it can be published in the shorthand report. To conclude, I would like to stress how foolish it would be to provoke a crisis of government at a time like this, of extreme vulnerability of the entire European economic and political framework. If we really went in this direction, we would end up on the margins of Europe, as we did in 2010-2011. In fact, we remain convinced that this manoeuvre is necessary and useful to the country and for this reason, Mr President, the vote of the Democratic Party Group will be strongly in favour of the approval of the stability law and, with the confidence of the Government, the vote to the maneuver will also be an important verification of the new majority that supports its Government, President Letta, and will support it in the important challenges that await it in Italy and Europe. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u338	The Presidency authorizes you to leave the text of your speech to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u339	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u340	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u341	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, and not because I am voting against it by my group. I have tried to raise her awareness of the acceptance of the maxi amendment and the fidelity of the technical report. However, unlike my opinion, before 8 p.m., you accepted and declared the debate open. I thank Minister Franceschini for his intellectual honesty when he said: The tables with the balances to the maxi amendment to the law of stability will arrive in the Senate during the general discussion. Franceschini admitted the presence of formal errors in the text of the maxi amendment and in the technical report, including the absence of tables. This is your statement. Mr FRANCESCHINI, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Coordination of Government Activities. No, not in the amendment: in the technical report. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). If not, I withdraw at this point the sharing of his intellectual honesty. I must note that at 9.30 p.m. the tables and the technical report have arrived, and I thank the Government for this punctuality. Too bad, though, that they arrived an hour and a half after we accepted and accepted the amendment. So, Mr President, if our Rules of Procedure provide that the maxi amendment should be accompanied by a technical report (the proof is that the Government has integrated it at 21.30), then first see camel and then give carpet, because one account is the Catholic faith, another account is an unjustified faith compared to those who present technical reports which, by his own admission, by tabulas, are discovered. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u342	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u343	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u344	Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, for the sake of coordination and correction of the form of the text, I propose that the following amendments be made to the single article of the text: delete paragraphs 133 to 137 and paragraph 379, since the corresponding provisions are already present in paragraph 132 in the version approved by the Commission with amendment 4,2000/24 (text 2); in paragraph 199, after the words: 'Administrators', insert the following... BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Hirings in Calabria. Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, hiring in Calabria duplicate. A mere duplication of text. And they're not hiring. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Shame on you! Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. As I said, insert the following: "amounts referred to above in separate management on the basis of the criteria approved by decree of the President of the Bank, which have skipped for mere material error; delete paragraphs 151 and 152 as the relevant provisions come together in Table A; place the provisions brought by the first part of paragraph 520 instead of those brought by paragraph 332 and introduce the second part of the same paragraph 520 as an additional period of paragraph 138. Consequently delete paragraph 520; in paragraph 362, paragraph 2‐ bis, sixth sentence, replace the word: "foresee" by the following: "Exclude" [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] and the words: "different ways of applying the limitation scheme to recruitment" with the following words: "from the limitation scheme to recruitment"; delete paragraph 409 identical to paragraph 410. D'ANNA (GAL). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u345	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u346	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u347	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that it is absolutely out of the question that we can immediately accept what has now been proposed by the Government, first of all because some content should be delivered to the whole House in writing and then verified by assigning a certain amount of time. In addition, I do not think that we can be regarded as a formal correction of such wide-ranging interventions where even certain terms change, showing in fact that what had been presented and submitted to you was not acceptable. I therefore ask you, formally, to distribute the text which has been read by Mr Legnini, to suspend the work of the House and to allow everyone to check what changes are required and, as a result of this reasoning, that it is no longer just political but technical responsibility, even his own, then proceed to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u348	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u349	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u350	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, you will remember that story of popular significance, but of religious reference: too much grace, St Anthony! Well, that is the consequence of having admitted without the technical report the maxi amendment of the Government. They did it the first time, and they're trying the second time. Among other things, the Undersecretary Legnini has a very long experience precisely in relation to proposals for coordination. He made battles, as a member of the Budget Commission, with regard to proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure tabled in this regard and not with the careful correlation to the content of Article 103 (1) which identifies precisely what correction of form and final coordination means. Undersecretary Legnini, therefore, should remember that. Mr President, I would not like to go any further. I should like to read to remind the House of the content. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you talking about Article 103? FERRARA Mario (GAL). Yes, Rule 103 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Everything that has been asked is absolutely contrary to the norm. Beyond the proposal made by Senator Volpi, which is of common sense, there is yet another, for my part, which I hope undersecretary Legnini and Minister Franceschini will accept. This is a first reading and there will be a second reading in the Chamber of Deputies: they try us in the Chamber, but they do not upset the text once again by referring to interpretation or practice (she herself occasionally calls us to the right meditation on it). The House has time: let the text stand as it is and let us not be drawn into a further debate in this House, at this time of the evening, in absolute contradiction with Rule 103 (1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u351	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u352	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u353	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will be very brief. I expected that, with the many corrections illustrated by the Undersecretary Legnini, it would be clarified that it is the page where there are paragraphs from 412 onwards. I checked this page which - it is so everywhere - is half white. However, the numbers of paragraphs 413, 414, 415, 416 and 417 are written. At 8:11 p.m., that is, when the discussion had begun widely and the government had already asked the question of trust, we were told that paragraphs 416 and 417 had a certain text. I wonder whether paragraphs 413, 414 and 415, which appear here as a blank sheet, as well as at 20.11, are to be included or not. We are talking about a law of the state, not a fairy tale in which, when you lose something, you can update with intuition. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u354	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u355	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u356	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I agree with the comments that colleagues from other groups have made regarding the misuse of the coordination of the text to include additional rules and to overturn the text of the Stability Act. As Senator Ferrara has already said, there is a passage to the Chamber of Deputies. We're not at the last beach. A rapporteur said earlier that we are not at the de minimis stage: we are at the de minimis stage of change of substance which poses problems of procedural correctness, and it is an unnecessary force, precisely because there is another step. In this regard, we also call on the Presidency, which must be the ultimate guarantor of these procedures, beyond the Government's intentions. Not to mention the observation of Senator Malan, who surprised me (but he is a careful observer of parliamentary matters) finding this really surreal aspect. Among other things, I believe that the text of the coordinating proposal has not been distributed. Senator Volpi is right in saying that, if the government wants to move forward, the text should be distributed, examined and glued, because, in front of a government that leaves blank pages, we certainly cannot accept this way of proceeding. Mr President, above all, you cannot support this approach. We certainly do not want to endorse it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u357	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u358	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u359	Mr FRANCESCHINI, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Coordination of Government Activities. Mr President, since I appreciate that it has been possible to assess the impact of these rules (there are substantive rules and formal corrections), I would like to point out that these formal corrections come from the coordination function of the text carried out by the Senate Offices, whose product should normally have read the rapporteur, as my fellow senators know; in this case, since there is no rapporteur, the Government has taken responsibility for transposing the observations proposed by the Senate Offices in the course of formal coordination. These are formal corrections, formal coordination of the text. If you consider, Mr President, to vote on the original text instead, we have no difficulty in doing so. I would add, Senator Malan, that the theme that has been raised with a certain pathos at this time has been resolved in the afternoon: this is a copy error of the Senate Offices. If you observe, there is my signature next to it; three paragraphs have been deleted by hand. In the photocopier obviously it was covered with a blank page, but the original was deposited and does not correspond to the copy you have. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But are there or are there no paragraphs? [[Comments from the FI-PdL-XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u360	You have already talked enough about this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u361	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u362	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u363	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, before I vote, I would like to know whether the paragraphs referred to by Senator Malan are or are not on the page, since they are blank but are referred to as a number. You have to tell me what we have to do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If they're blank, they're not here. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you have seen the page: the paragraphs are referred to.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u364	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u365	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u366	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, without any controversy I would like to remind the Government that in Naples this is called the game of the three cards: you point and then you turn the cards and you see what is there. Beyond formal amateurism, here is a substantial fact: we have the right to have complete documents, perfectly written and exhibited to the senators in good time so that they can know about it. That's the thing. If you have made a mistake, have at least the common sense and the good taste of apologizing to this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u367	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u368	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u369	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have listened carefully to Mr Franceschini's speech and it seems to me that, precisely on the basis of this speech, for the serenity of all, we can overcome this incident which is probably due to a singular series of coincidences, mishaps and errors such as that of the photocopying of the text, to which Minister Franceschini referred. These in essence seem to me to have adhered to the request that was made first by Senator Ferrara and then by President Gasparri, namely that the Government had the willingness to vote on the law in the original text, although it is, to say the Minister Franceschini, and of this we clearly have no reason to doubt, a formal coordination proposed by the Offices. So, Mr President, if that is the case, I believe that the logic is to vote on the text without formal coordination (the Government has shown its willingness to do so) because, in the absence of this, I believe that colleagues are right in representing the need and the opportunity to check whether those changes that have been proposed are merely formal or, hypothetically, can enter into the substance. Let us therefore conclude this debate. The Government has expressed this willingness; therefore, it follows the willingness of the Government. We will all vote for confidence with serenity and serenity.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u370	Since the corrections that have been proposed are mere corrections of form and since they have come out of the coordination and not from the collage of the text, I remember that there is the original deposited, which is cut and then in making the photocopies obviously has not been repeated. This is a collage. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, there's the government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We must thank those who have noticed the repetition of some paragraphs and have avoided a form error and a formal repetition. This is the Presidency's assessment after everyone has been allowed to give their opinion. I don't want to remember... [[Senator Palma's comments.]] Senator Palma, we don't need to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u371	Mr President, excuse me, allow me to speak with you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u372	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u373	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, Mr President, but I did not ask you to clarify this to the House. I have asked, in a completely different way, to accept the willingness of the Government and, since the request for amendment of the text does not come from the Presidency of the Senate, but from the Government, which has the power to continue to insist on this change or to withdraw, as Minister Franceschini said, I believe that the problem I posed should not be solved by the Presidency of the Senate, but by Minister Franceschini. It is the Minister who must tell us whether he intends to insist on the request for amendment on the basis of formal coordination, i.e. whether he expresses and reiterates his willingness to vote on the text in its original wording. The request is from the government and it is the government, and not the presidency of the Senate, that needs to clarify the point under discussion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u374	The presidency of the Senate also has a coordinating power recognised by Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, which may need to be read in full. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We're gonna hear from the government now.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u375	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u376	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u377	ZANDA (PD). Mr. President, we're voting on trust in the government. We have listened to the explanations of vote of all the parliamentary groups, and none of them raised any issues. The Government has presented some formal coordination changes that make the text correct. I believe that we should go to the vote immediately and we should do so with the correct text. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must not go and vote on a text which has been declared to be corrected with purely formal corrections. This has happened in all the laws of stability of past years and always in all the complex laws that the Senate has approved. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u378	Please, we're not at the stadium.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u379	ZANDA (PD). I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to put the text to the vote with the indications for the formal corrections which Mr Legnini has read to the House in a comprehensive way and which are sufficient for the House to be well informed of what it votes on. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u380	I urge the government representative to clarify what text he intends to vote on. Since it is in the willingness of the Government to ask for confidence in a particular text, it is the Government that will give a seal of finality on the same text, as we have already said. The Presidency and the House will only be able to take note that the vote will be on that text. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u381	Mr President, as regards the first question raised by Senator Malan, the copy which was sent to the Groups about twenty minutes later - as the Offices tell me - clarifies that it was an error and that the deleted paragraphs are 413, 414 and 415 and not the subsequent ones, which had been bleached for a copy error. So these are the three paragraphs that are not in the text; the others live, as in the text that has been redistributed. I have referred to the fact, Mr President, that the formal corrections to the text have always been the result not of the autonomous initiative of the Government, but of the confrontation between the Offices of the Senate and the Government. This comparison in the framework of rafting led to the proposal for formal corrections, which are normally proposed by the rapporteur as formal corrections. Since there is no rapporteur, the Government has undertaken to report to the Assembly this work of formal correction of the text. As I said before, and I repeat, because we are at first reading and we believe that these are formal corrections, and I think we all want to get to the vote of confidence and call, we have no difficulty in giving up those corrections, but the choice of the text to be put to the vote, Mr President, is up to you and we adapt to your choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u382	These are formal corrections. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] I think I made myself clear. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u383	I'm asking to talk. I've been asking for the floor for two hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u384	Two hours ago, she wasn't sitting there. I noticed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u385	[[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian MILO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a point about the paragraphs that Mr Legnini withdrew by saying that this was a formal mistake. I show you that this is not the case, as paragraphs 133 to 136 apply, according to these tables, about EUR 150 million. So I do not understand how, by removing these four paragraphs, they can balance the accounts between the report and the table. I have actively participated in the work of the Commission and this demonstrates the government's mental reserve. Let me explain: paragraphs 132 to 136 are exactly the paragraphs of text 1 of Article 6, for which the Government, by having us work in the Commission also Saturday night and Sunday night, had already prepared the maxi amendment. The latter, and therefore paragraphs 132 to 136, undersecretary Legnini, were exactly the paragraphs of text 1 of that amendment. That too, Mr President, is the bad faith of the Government, because it had already prepared the text on the basis of text 1 of that amendment. So today we find ourselves with these tables which contain about 150 million more and with the maxi amendment today reworded not as a formal fact, but in order to adapt it to text 2 of that amendment. Mr President, this is not a reorganization of the work, it is a formal fact, so I invite you - as Senator Volpi said - not to proceed any further. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u386	The Government assumes responsibility for the text of the amendments and corrections. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). If you hire her! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing all articles of bill 1120 on which the Government has put the question of trust. [[Senator Volpi's lively comments. Senator Ferrara points out that he wants to intervene. Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups.]] I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure... [[Comments from Senators Palma and Ferrara. Senator Ferrara is approaching the bench of the Presidency.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u387	Pursuant to Rule 103 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, if it is requested that the Senate postpone the final vote to a subsequent session and instruct the Commission to submit the appropriate proposals, the Assembly shall decide by show of hands without discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u388	Be quiet. What's your request?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u389	[[Comments from the PD Group. Senator Ferrara approaches the microphone by opening the Rules of Procedure.]] I do not want to read the Rules of Procedure, I want to know what your request is! FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I say what I want, not what you tell me! [[Comments from the LAG and FI-PdL XVII Groups. Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u390	I don't want to read the rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u391	FERRARA Mario (GAL). President, I say what I want, and if I want to read the Rules of Procedure from the first to the last Rule! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then I won't give you the floor. FERRARA Mario (GAL). No, you give me the floor! You, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 103, must admit the request that I make to you regarding the responsibility you have called for the Government, considering that the government does not take responsibility but takes it from the Senate. I therefore ask that the possible move to the Commission be put to the vote in order to present the appropriate proposals for amendments; the House shall act by show of hands without debate. On the resolution I call for the quorum to be checked, so we see who agrees with the Government and takes responsibility for this further violence under the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u392	If we are to vote, we must understand what we are voting for. So, your request is for the Senate to postpone the final vote to a later session? Senator Ferrara, what is your request? FERRARA Mario (GAL). It is pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 3. Don't you want to read the Rules of Procedure? If you read it! I'm asking the Senate to vote for a show of hands and I'm asking for a quorum check first. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Study the Rules of Procedure! SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Where is the Minister for Economic Affairs, President?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u393	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u394	Senator Spousetti, you too? A moment of silence, please. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u395	BEEPS (PD). Mr President, I apologise to my fellow Members and particularly to the President of the Budget Commission, with whom we have spent days and nights in order to deal on the substance with the measure on which we must speak for confidence. When the government raised the question of trust, you, Mr President, suspended the proceedings of the Chamber; the 5th Commission was regularly convened by the President and many of the colleagues who legitimately expressed dissent invoking the Rules of Procedure participated - with Senator D'Alì, Senator Santini and other colleagues - in a session as usual passionate, because we examined the document that had been submitted to us by the presidency of the Senate. Colleagues, it was we who realized that at least five paragraphs could not be part of that text. We: the members of the 5th Commission. We immediately realized, from a first reading, that five paragraphs were absolutely inappropriate. Although the text, examined in summary form, was transferred from the offices of the 5th Commission to the presidency of the Senate we cannot vote on a text that is incorrect. [[Applause from the FI-Pdl XVII Group and Senator Santini.]] There is no assembly voting on a text which the assembly itself recognizes to be incorrect. I do not think that this request can be accepted, which is legitimate if some reasoning is to be made. But if we really want Parliament to vote in favour, against or abstention, it must do so on a text which must be legitimately voted on. Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that, because some of you did so during the sitting of the Commission, but we cannot vote on the text presented by the Government. Honestly, Mr President, with a great deal of intellectual honesty, I did not understand the Minister's speech on relations with Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and LN-Aut.]] He should have asked us to vote on the correct text after the government had intervened, as we have always done. Mr President, I personally would be very embarrassed to vote for the vote of confidence in the absence of the corrections that we have all considered necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u396	That's what I was trying to say. [[Comments by Senator Scilipoti.]] In accordance with some precedents dating back to 2010 and 2012, pursuant to article 103, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, I put to the vote the proposal of coordination C1, presented by the Government. It's approved. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, we vote on the text as requested by the Government with the proposal for coordination. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,900 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u397	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing all articles of bill 1120 on which the Government has put the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I would remind you that every senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. In view of the accident that occurred in recent days, Senator Fedeli will vote first. I invite the Senator Secretary to register his vote. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Puglisi is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Puglisi. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. Yes, the senators answer: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilardi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Caridi, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Cattaneo, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagna, Compagnone, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alì, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasca, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippin, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghieri Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fattorini, Favero, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Filippin, Fin, Fincino, Fincino, Fincino, Di Mantaro, Di Mantino, Di Manto, Di Manto, Di Manto, Di Manto, Fincarini, Fincarini, Fincari, Fincari, D's Senators say no: Casalati, Alicata, Amorus, Aracres, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Bitonci, Blondo, Bochin, Bondi, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Bruno, Bucarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campella, Candiani, Chappellett, Cardiello, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinio, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilo, Cioff, Comaroli, Council, Conti, Cotti, Crimi, Crimi, Cros, Cros, Crosio, Crosiori, Crosio D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, D'Anna, Davi, Dave, Florac, Folico, De Crisfaro, De Geros, De Petri, De Petio, De Petri, De Petri, Gatri, De Pin, Get, Get, De Pin, De Pin, De Pin, De Sin, Div, Div, Div, Div, Div, Div, Divio, Div, D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', Fon, Fon, Fa Fa Fa Fa Fa Fa Fa Faiano, Fas, Fas, Fa, Fa, Fa, Fa, Fa, Fa, Fa, Fa, Fran, Fran, Fat, Fat, Fat, Fat, Fat, Fat, Fat, Fat, Fat, Fat, Fat, Fat, D', FF, FF, D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', D', Fario, Fario, Fario, Fario, Fary, Fary, Fary, Fary, Fary, Fary, Flor, Fary, Flor, Flor, Flor, Flor, Flor, Flor, Flor, PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote with the appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the bill No 1120 on which the Government has put the question of trust, with the warning that the Presidency will be entitled to make formal corrections which should be further necessary: [[Senators present 307 Senators voting 306 Majority 154 Favorables 171 Contrars 135]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, SCP, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and GAL groups.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of the stability bill are therefore not included. As a result of the adoption of the Stability Bill, the Government will now have to draw up the corresponding Note of Variations. The 5th Standing Commission is hereby authorised to convene for the examination of this document.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u398	Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you that the Council of Ministers is convened today at 8.30 a.m. for the purpose of presenting the Note of changes to the budget. Therefore, the follow-up to the debate is postponed until tomorrow's sitting, in advance of 9 a.m., for the vote of the Note of Variations and the final vote of the draft budget law, with the presence of the quorum. The examination of document III, No. 1, will follow. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u399	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-141.ana.u400	The Senate will meet again in public today, Wednesday 27 November, at 9 a.m. instead of 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 0.45 p.m. on 27 November.
